Oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — company in Distress what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to increase the Government ' s ability to respond to company in distress . the Government take very seriously our role to ensure the resilience of Government supplier . the Cabinet Office take an active role in monitor the Government ' s strategic supplier and put in place contingency plan where there be risk of distress . more broadly , the Cabinet Office work alongside other Departments , from the Department for Business and Trade and the Insolvency Service to the Treasury . we be support by UK Government Investments , which be the Government ' s centre of excellence in corporate finance , with experience of corporate finance , restructuring and insolvency in the private sector . any taxpayer support must be use wisely , balance the need to ensure value for money and support job and the economy . follow the collapse of five company of the SK : n group , a large employer in Nuneaton , the health service that the company offer have be impact . will the Minister please explain what step the Government be take to ensure that department have contingency plan to sustain the work of those company to private healthcare patient ? I hope that my hon . friend will appreciate that I can not comment on the specific of the case that she mention , but when any business collapse it cause huge distress to the customer and people who work there , include those in her constituency . in general , independent provider of NHS service must hold an NHS provider licence unless exempt . licensed provider of service that be hard to replace be subject to financial and risk - base quality governance oversight to safeguard the continuity of service for patient . if my hon . friend wish to write to I with further detail , I will ensure that the relevant Minister get back to she . almost 48 , 000 company in the south - west be now class as in significant economic distress , accord to the late Begbies Traynor ' s " Red Flag Alert " report . that be visible in market town in Glastonbury and Somerton such as Wincanton and Street , which be lose high street store . what step be the Minister take with her Cabinet colleague to support business in the south - west ? this Government be determined to support growth in this country , as one of their driving mission . work be go on across Government to support economic growth and investment and to ensure that high street thrive again . public Procurement what step he be take to reform public procurement . what step he be take to reform public procurement . we will end the waste , inefficiency and cronyism that set in under the previous Government . under this government , procurement will deliver value for money , well public service and our national mission . as a first step , we be bring forward a new national procurement policy statement under the Procurement Act 2023 , which will deliver a mission - lead procurement regime . it will drive value for money , economic growth and social value . we have also take step to cut down on wasteful consultancy spending , and have work to set up a new covid counter - fraud commissioner . as set out in our plan to make work pay , we will also take further reform set out in our manifesto . I thank the Minister for mention cronyism in her answer . the big procurement scandal I have see in my lifetime be under the last Conservative Government , when Ministers give dodgy contract to their mate and donor . they take our country ' s reputation for honesty and integrity and trash it . resident in my constituency be not only angry but disgusted and ashamed . will the Minister update the House on the step the Government be take to ensure that there will never be a repeat of this episode ? rise — that be a dramatic pause — apology . where the public have be defraud , will we get our money back for public service ? my hon . friend can see just how keen I be to act on this issue . he be right that taxpayer be pay the price for the Conservative Government allow waste and fraud to spiral out of control . the Chancellor of the Exchequer recently take decisive action by appoint a new covid counter - fraud commissioner to help we recover public money and ensure that this never happen again . [ Official Report , 11 November 2024 ; Vol . 756 , c . 5wc . ] ( Correction ) I be work closely with the Public Sector Fraud Authority to push every avenue to detect fraud , from advanced artificial intelligence and analytic through to strengthen our enforcement power . do the Minister agree that , when do right , public procurement can deliver positive change in our community , especially give the poor state in which the previous Government leave the public finance ? what step will she take to ensure that social value be properly embed in our procurement framework , while deliver value for taxpayer and contribute to growth in our local economy ? I agree that procurement can be a powerful tool for deliver change in our society . public sector procurement can help to drive our ambition around growth , open up opportunity for community across the UK . the Government be currently consult on a new national procurement policy statement that will set out our expectation around mission delivery and social value . I thank the Minister for her very helpful answer . what step have be take to ensure that small and medium - sized enterprise in Northern Ireland , and far afield in the United Kingdom , have readily available access to the public procurement system , to ensure that they can secure the good good for their business and thereby help our economy in Northern Ireland to grow ? support sme through procurement be a huge priority for the Government . it be one of the thing that we be consult on as part of the new national procurement policy statement that I talk about . we be look across our work in government to ensure that sme be part of the procurement process . this be a subject on which we will come back to the House . Royal Fleet Auxiliary : pay Awards what recent discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Defence on pay award for employee of the Royal Fleet Auxiliary . the Royal Fleet Auxiliary staff do excellent work on behalf of the Royal Navy and for our national security , and I pay tribute to they for that work . I have be in contact with the Secretary of State for Defence on this issue . I be hopeful that a resolution can be find on the pay matter currently under discussion between Nautilus , the RMT and the Royal Fleet Auxiliary , and that the current dispute can be resolve . I welcome the effort of the Cabinet Office and other Government Departments — unlike the previous Government , who sit on their hand — to resolve this dispute in the not - too - distant future . I urge Ministers to double their effort with colleague in the Ministry of Defence and the Treasury . government official be in negotiation with the trade union . we want to see an end to the dispute that result in a fair pay offer for the worker involve and deliver value for money for the taxpayer . that be what we will try to achieve . Trade Barriers with the EU what step his Department be take to help reduce trade barrier with the EU . the Prime Minister and President von der Leyen have agree to strengthen the relationship between the UK and the EU . Vice - President Š ef č ovi č , whom I meet in Strasbourg on Tuesday , and I will be get the reset move this autumn . as part of this , the Government will seek to negotiate a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement and remove other barrier to trade . the British Poultry Council have record a 50 % drop in poultry - link export since 2020 . between 2019 and 2022 , UK agrifood export to the EU contract by 5 % and have struggle to recover to 2019 level . rural business be be hold back from export to the EU due to costly border charge and administrative hurdle . have the Minister ' s Department assess the impact on food price if a veterinary and plant agreement with the EU be not reach before Christmas ? the hon . Gentleman ' s question set out exactly why negotiate an SPS agreement be so important . the Government have set out that there will be a UK - EU summit in the first half of next year , and it have be make clear to I , and indeed to Vice - President Š ef č ovi č , that there should be progress by then . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I offer the congratulation of Liberal Democrat Members to our hon . friend the Member for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) on the safe arrival of his baby son yesterday . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I offer our very good wish to David , Gemma and all the family . I be sure the Government agree that support to provide opportunity for young people should be central to the policy of any Government . we be glad to see the new Government work to build close economic and cultural tie with Europe . we want to forge a new partnership with our european neighbour , build on co - operation , not confrontation , and move to a new comprehensive agreement . we must rebuild confidence by agree partnership or association , help to restore prosperity and opportunity for british people . will the Minister consider the extension of the youth mobility scheme and acknowledge the breadth of way in which it could strengthen our cultural , educational and economic link with Europe ? first , I add our congratulation to the hon . member for Brecon , Radnor and Cwm Tawe ( David Chadwick ) on the safe arrival of his new baby . on the specific point that the hon . Lady make , we will not give a running commentary on the negotiation . we will obviously consider EU proposal on a range of issue , but we be clear that we will not return to freedom of movement . I remind the Front Benchers to look towards the Chair now and again , because sometimes I can not hear what be be say , so that would help I , since member be speak through I in the third person . I be try to get the House to work how it should . government ' s Five Missions what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the Government ' s five mission . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the Government ' s five mission . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the Government ' s five mission . we be elect on a manifesto with five mission to rebuild Britain and turn the page on 14 year of decline under the conservative party . those five mission offer real and tangible benefit to people live in every part of our country : high living standard , clean energy , safe street , long and healthy life , and a renew confidence that the future will be well for our child . I be delighted to report to the House that we have already begin the change that we set out in our national mission , make our economy stable , launch a new border security command , set up great british Energy and set out ambitious plan for housing . the excellent Ayrshire chamber of commerce be help Ayrshire business to grow . after 17 year of the Scottish National party fail business in Scotland , business in Ayrshire need that support , as well as this Government ' s five mission . do the Minister agree that , to deliver the change that our country need , we need a new way of do politic , work in partnership with community , business , civil society and trade union ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and commend the work of the Ayrshire chamber of commerce and business in his constituency . the Prime Minister have set a clear direction for mission to mobilise action beyond Government , include across business , civil society and local government . mission require wide sectoral and societal engagement and action across the UK ; they be not simply task for one agency or sector . I be pleased by the progress that we be make in this area , and be delighted last week to see the launch of the civil society covenant , which mark a new beginning in the Government ' s relationship with , and make clear the pivotal role of , civil society in deliver our mission . Brew York and Piglets Adventure Farm be just two example of highly innovative business in my constituency . do my hon . friend agree that , from lager to lamb , business will play a critical role in deliver the five mission , so business engagement be key ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the work that Brew York and Piglets Adventure Farm do in his constituency . I absolutely agree that engagement and work with business will be key to deliver on all five of our mission . I congratulate the Government on try to use the mission to stop the siloe work between Departments in order to achieve the change that the country need . on the housing mission , it be important that we link in the Treasury and the Departments for Health and Social Care , for Transport , for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and for Energy Security and Net Zero , to ensure that we build the 1 . 5 million home that we need . in Milton Keynes , we have see how house building can create opportunity , but public support be lose when the necessary vital public service and infra - structure do not come alongside new house . how be the Cabinet Office bring together all those Departments so that we can achieve our housing mission ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the importance of housing , which be central to what we be do in government . each of our five national mission be ambitious and will require input and action from a number of Government Departments . that be precisely why we be run they as mission , and not in the traditional departmental silos . as would be expect , the Cabinet Office be key to support that ; the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , who be deputy chair on all mission board , and myself be play active role in facilitate that cross - government working , support by a specialist mission delivery unit in the Cabinet office . strengthen National Resilience what recent progress his Department have make on strengthen national resilience . what recent progress his Department have make on strengthen national resilience . our first duty as a Government be to keep people safe . it be clear that we need to act on recent public inquiry that have call for reform , such as those into the Grenfell Tower tragedy and the covid - 19 pandemic . that be why the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster be lead a review into national resilience against the range of risk the UK face . in the last year alone , we have see a mini - tornado in Nottingham , flash flood in Madeley and rain like no other across Newcastle - under - Lyme . we see the devastating effect of climate change every day . what be the Minister do to improve resilience and preparation across central Government , local authority , local community and emergency service , to ensure that Newcastle - under - Lyme and the rest of our country be prepare for any and every extreme weather event ? my hon . friend be right to raise that question . as the Environment Secretary have say , it be a matter of some regret that the previous Administration leave our country ' s flood defence in the bad condition ever record , and it be community such as my hon . friend ' s that have unfortunately have to pay the price . I can assure he that the resilience review will strengthen our approach to resilience across the whole range of risk that we face , include those in his constituency . we have already take step to improve resilience across government . if we be to ensure that the UK be resilient to the potential threat that face our country , it be vital that people who work to bring community together and keep we safe be give the training , knowledge and skill that they need to play their part . my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent South know the importance of that more than most , with people work tirelessly to tackle and calm the racial tension at the centre of the violent disorder we see over the summer . organisation such as the Emergency Planning College do fantastic work to deliver crisis management and resilience training . can the Minister tell the House what step she be take to support their work in that area ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and in September I be delighted to visit the Emergency Planning College , which have serve as the UK Government ' s centre for resilience expertise since its founding 80 year ago . I be pleased to report to the House that the UK Resilience Academy be on track to be establish next April . it will build on the training currently offer by the Cabinet Office ' s Emergency Planning College , provide a wide range of training for organisation , business and individual . of course , as part of the resilience review we will far consider whether policy be work in respect of training and skill , and where it need to be improve . I call the shadow Minister , John Glen . I turn to another area of national resilience . national security expert have be warn about the chinese Communist party ' s use of genomics company to harvest dna datum globally and dominate the genomics industry supply chain . give the increase importance of genomic for public healthcare , and the potential dual - use application of the technology , will the Minister confirm whether her Department be conduct a risk assessment on the data privacy , national security and ethical risk pose by genomic company link to systemic competitor ? the right hon . member be right to raise that question . we will ban China ' s economic engagement , and make sure we strengthen our national security . [ Official Report , 28 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 8WC . ] ( Correction ) Infected Blood Compensation Scheme what recent progress he have make on establish the infected blood compensation scheme . what recent progress he have make on establish the infected blood compensation scheme . what recent progress he have make on establish the infected blood compensation scheme . last week , the Infected Blood Compensation Authority issue a small number of invitation to begin test a new claim service . furthermore , I can announce today that application for interim payment to the estate of people whose death have not yet be recognise have now open . this be an important step in get money into the hand of victim of the infected blood scandal . my constituent Sharon Moore have be a fierce campaigner for victim of the infected blood scandal and their family member . after decade of government negligence , Sir Brian Langstaff be clear that the community of infected and affected people should be include to enact his inquiry recommendation . however , the previous Government engage in little to no communication with patient or organisation such as the Haemophilia Society and the Terrence Higgins Trust . I be delighted that those recommendation be be enact today , but could the Minister please tell we how he will be work with the Department of Health and Social Care and his colleague in that Department to make sure that people get the compensation they deserve ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s constituent Sharon Moore for all her campaigning . as I have say to the House , I have now give the instruction for interim payment to the estate of the deceased infect to open today , and I expect the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to make its first payment before the end of the year . subject to the House ' s process , I would hope that regulation for those who be affect — the second set of regulation — will be complete by the end of March next year , and I expect that payment to the affect to begin next year as well . I be very pleased to hear that the Minister have open application for interim payment . will he elaborate on how those payment may be access , so that my constituent in Erewash can get their hand on they as fast as possible ? I invite all right hon . and hon . member to go on the gov . uk website , which give the detail for the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . I urge people with an interest to register with the authority , which be already send out newsletter . however , right hon . and hon . member be also very welcome to write to I at the Cabinet Office about specific case . I will of course look into those case and ensure there be a response . I welcome the urgency with which this Government have move this important issue forward , especially now that we know there be a timescale for application be open . will the Minister update the House on when victim can expect to receive their final compensation payment ? as I have indicate to the House , I expect the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to make its first payment before the end of the year , and to start payment to the affected next year . the Government be move as quickly as they can to ensure that people receive the compensation that , frankly , be long overdue . I call the shadow Minister . I warmly welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s announcement on the £ 100 , 000 interim payment to the estate of the deceased infected , thereby maintain the momentum that be establish early this year , and I thank he for his thorough statement to the House yesterday introduce the statutory instrument . will he confirm that it be his intention to ramp up rapidly from the payout to the test case cohort of 20 infect ? can he give the House as much detail as he can about when other in the infected cohort should expect to receive their payout ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for the constructive tone he have take throughout the debate under this Government . that continue the work we do when I be the shadow Minister , when we work together to try to deliver these payment as quickly as possible . the whole purpose of have the test cohort be to enable a range of different case to be consider by the Infected Blood Compensation Authority , to give we the good possible opportunity to ramp up as quickly as possible . that be why I expect the first payment to be make before the end of this year . I then expect payment to the affect to begin next year , and I will ensure that regulation be place before this House to make sure those deadline be reach . Ministerial Standards what step he be take to ensure high ministerial standard in government . the behaviour of Conservative Ministers in their 14 year in power — party in Downing Street while people in the whole country sacrifice their freedom , hand lucrative covid contract to friend and donor , and fail to expel mps catch break the rule — shatter trust in politic . this new Government be determined to restore trust in politic . the Prime Minister have make it clear that he expect the high standard from those who have the privilege of serve in his government , and he will soon be issue an update ministerial code . alongside this , we be take a range of other measure to restore confidence in government as a force for good . as a veterinary surgeon , I be expect to maintain the high professional and behavioural standard at all time , as be those in many other regulated profession such as doctor and teacher , and if I fail to meet those standard I face the very real prospect of be strike off . give the behaviour of previous Ministers and even a Prime Minister , do the Minister agree that , if we enshrine the ministerial code in law , that would restore trust in politic and ensure that people who lie and break the rule face very real consequence ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . as the Leader of the House have say : " this new Parliament offer a chance to turn the page after the sorry and sordid record of the last . " — [ Official Report , 25 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 857 . ] that be why we will be issue a new robust ministerial code . as we promise in our manifesto , the House have establish a Modernisation Committee , which will be task with drive up standard and address the culture of the House . that sit alongside the work the Cabinet Office be do to improve standard and confidence in politic . I call the shadow Minister . the opposition support the new Government ' s aspiration for the high ministerial standard , and we acknowledge the significant experience that the Prime Minister ' s former chief of staff can bring to her role as envoy to the nation and region . why then , in breach of Cabinet Office guidance , have Ministers not publish a word on her term of reference , her new salary or her special adviser severance payment , and be she correct in her understanding that she be at the top of the list of new peer ? anything in relation to the former chief of staff will be announce in due course . it be not right for I to comment on the term and condition of any individual . the Union and the Devolved Administrations what step he plan to take to strengthen the Union . what progress he have make on resetting relation with the devolved administration . this Government be elect to deliver for people throughout the United Kingdom , and whatever political difference we have in different part of the UK , the public expect we to work together for the common good . that be why we hold the Council of the Nations and Regions recently in Edinburgh , which be focus on investment and good job across the country . I be sure we all agree that local community know what be good for their own affair . will the Minister formalise the council of Ministers so that the government of Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , along with regional leader in England , can meet regularly to shape their community ? the idea be that the Council of the Nations and Regions , which meet in Edinburgh the other week , will meet twice a year . however , I believe that these relationship be about more than formal meeting . it be important , underneath the formality , to establish as good and as normal a work relationship as we possibly can . this new Labour Government have already outline that they be go to invest in sector vital to the economy of Dunfermline and Dollar , include renewable , defence and engineering . that investment can only fully deliver if there be alignment with the Scottish Government to deliver the pipeline of skill need for local people to fill those job , which be an agenda that the SNP have singularly fail to address in 17 year in power . will the Minister outline how this Labour Government will co - ordinate with and press the SNP to ensure that the opportunity of this investment be fully realise ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to stress investment . investment be the theme of the first meeting ; it be also the theme of the investment summit hold last week . through that , we be able to announce over £ 60 billion of inward investment to the United Kingdom . this will benefit people in all part of the country . my hon . friend be right to say that to make the most of it we have to give people the skill to do the job this investment will bring . House of Lords Reform what step he be take to reform the House of Lords . as be set out in our manifesto , this Government be commit to reform the House of Lords . our objective be to bring about a renew focus on active contribution within a small House of Lords that well reflect the country it serve . as an immediate first step in reform , the Government have introduce legislation within our first 100 day to remove the right of hereditary peer to sit and vote in the House of Lords . it be extremely welcome that this House overwhelmingly support the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill . the Lords must be more reflective of society . currently , it be not reflective of society or of region like South Yorkshire and Sheffield . do the Minister agree that there should not be place in our Parliament that be reserve purely for those from certain family , as that only preserve the privilege of the aristocracy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the conservative party seem to stand for few thing currently , and it be astonishing that it decide that one of they be hereditary privilege in the House of Lords . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . last week ' s legislation be welcome and be support by the Liberal Democrats , and we be glad of the Government ' s suggestion that these be initial step ahead of broad reform . will the Minister outline a timeframe for when further legislation will be bring forward for democratic reform of our upper Chamber , and can he assure I that safeguard will be put in place to protect against cronyism , with improved mechanism to review appointment to the other House ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her constructive approach to this matter . clearly , we want to see the current Bill on the statute book as soon as possible . we will then move on to the second stage of our reform , look carefully to build a consensus to have that small , well value , active House of Lords that we all want to see provide more consider scrutiny of this House . we will certainly consider she specific point about the appointment process . flood risk : resilience Framework if he will take step to ensure that the UK Government resilience framework help community mitigate against flood risk . in the aftermath of the flooding experience at the end of September , and as the final figure of flooded property be confirm , discussion be ongoing between the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and the Department for Business and Trade about the activation of the flood recovery framework , which be a core package of business and community recovery support . there be stringent criterion for activation of the scheme by Ministers and the current estimate of localise impact and a relatively low number of property flood in September be below the threshold for activation . however , the Flood re insurance scheme , a joint initiative between the UK Government and the insurance industry , be available to a wide range of eligible household in flood risk area . climate change mean that West Dorset face a grow flood risk , with increasingly frequent heavy rainfall flooding field , make road impassable and turn village like Stratton and Maiden Newton into island . last year , 700 property in my hometown of Bridport , include a school and a vital healthcare centre , be put at risk by flooding . what step be the Government take to ensure that the necessary funding and resource be available for flood prevention and emergency response in rural constituency like West Dorset , where large geographical area can create additional challenge ? the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be the lead Department for flooding in England and it stand up its emergency operation centre when a flood forecast or flood incident justifie that . this include when flooding may exceed the capacity of local response network to manage . the EOC work in tandem with Government . we have also set up the flood taskforce , which be look at how we can deal with flooding in the future to make sure we can address issue like those in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . as we have hear , last week we have the second reading of the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill to modernise the Lords . we have also deliver on our manifesto commitment to hold the first Council of the Nations and Regions . we be work hard to deliver justice for the victim of the infected blood scandal . we have publish a write statement today on the implementation of the UK biological security strategy . finally , we have set out the position on the right balance of flexible working and time in the office for civil servant . what plan do the Cabinet Office have to support small and medium - sized enterprise in build resilience to future economic shock and crisis , to ensure that they can continue to operate under difficult condition ? small business be the lifeblood of our economy . our agenda for growth will help small business . we be determined to support they . I assure my hon . friend that they be an important part of our resilience strategy and our resilience review . early this week , the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) meet a range of business to discuss share goal in respect of resilience and to ensure that they can have input into the strategy we be prepare . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster . can the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster provide an update on the current situation for british national in Lebanon , include the measure be take to ensure their safety ? be there any plan for further evacuation , give the ongoing instability in that region ? the situation in Lebanon be serious , and there be several thousand UK national in Lebanon . the Foreign Office advice for some time have be simple : leave now . the Government have charter several flight to help UK national to leave . we be also run a " register your presence " site , to ensure we can track anyone who be in country and have the good possible communication with they . we have make preparation for other evacuation measure , should they be necessary for the protection of our citizen in Lebanon . I thank the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for that answer . may I echo from the Opposition Benches that the correct approach for british national be to leave now , rather than to rely on the Government to take further step for they ? however , in the event that the situation deteriorate far , what contingency plan do the Government have in place to ensure the swift and safe evacuation of british national , particularly in high - risk area ? we have be monitor the situation closely for some month . I assure the right hon . Gentleman and the whole House that the Foreign Office , the Ministry of Defence and all part of Government be put in place the necessary measure , should the situation on the ground change to a point where we judge that more need to be do to get people out of the country . the Minister will be well aware that thousand of low - pay worker be be exploit on outsource contract in Government building , include cleaner , security guard and people in catering . will he update the House on what progress be be make to in - source these job ? after all , they be critical to the efficient operation of Parliament . whether worker be work in - source or outsource , we always want they to have a good deal and a fair deal at work . that be why the Government bring forward this week a powerful Bill to improve employment right for people right across the board . we believe that when people go to work they deserve fair pay and decent condition . figure from London council show that three in 10 londoner who be turn away from polling station due to a lack of appropriate voter ID do not return to vote . what assessment have be make of the impact on overall turnout of the voter ID law implement by the last government , particularly when it be understand that those measure disproportionately affect already disenfranchise community , such as those rent from a social landlord , the unemployed , low social grade , disabled people and young people ? it be very important that the voter ID system do not prevent people who have a legitimate right to vote from exercise their democratic right , so we be keep it under review , and we be already make a change to make it easy for veteran to get the ID necessary to vote . will the duty of candour in the Hillsborough law apply to the 70 - year - long nuclear test veteran scandal ? I thank my hon . friend for that question ; she be a long - stand champion for justice for victim of the infected blood scandal and , indeed , the nuclear test veteran that she mention . we be look to introduce a broad duty of candour — a general duty of candour . I should also point out that criminal sanction will be really important to punish the most egregious breach , and I be pleased to confirm today , as the Prime Minister announce in September , that the Bill we will bring forward will include criminal sanction . I call Dr Danny Chambers . thank you , Mr Speaker , but I withdraw my question . in that case , I will go to Gareth Snell . the Minister will be aware that the dire financial inheritance bequeath by the last Government mean that there be rightly a renew focus on how we spend public money . will she tell the House what work she be do across Government to ensure well use of public money , drive down waste and improve efficiency , in particular with regard to consultant ? as the Minister responsible for public service reform , I be clear that every single pound save on unnecessary consultancy spend be a pound invest in the renewal of our public service and deliver our ambitious mission to change the country . we be take tough action to cut down on wasteful consultancy spend . we be act to stop all non - essential Government consultancy spending this year and to halve Government spending on consultancy in future year , with a target saving of £ 550 million in 2024 - 25 and £ 680 million in 2025 - 26 . as you can imagine , Mr Speaker , the people of Scotland be beside themselves with excitement — I would go so far as to say we be fair giddy — at the prospect of receive a visit from the Prime Minister ' s special envoy . as we prepare the red carpet and the massed pipe band to welcome she , may I ask exactly what be the Cabinet Office ' s role in the creation of the post , when we will see a job description publish , and when the special envoy will finally take up the post officially ? I think the hon . Member would be join I in satisfaction at a nil - nil draw away from home last night . as for the personnel matter that he raise , all I will say be that I be enormously grateful to the Prime Minister ' s former chief of staff for her effort as chief of staff . I do believe that we want good , normal working relationship with the Scottish Government , and anything to do with the post will be announce in due course . despite representation from I and several member of Madeley parish council request action to tackle repeat flood incident at Bar Hill and particularly Mallard Close , family and business in Newcastle - under - Lyme be still be let down by Conservative - run Staffordshire county council . will the Minister meet I to discuss the resilience review so that we can deliver where other have fail ? as I mention early , the resilience review will strengthen our approach to resilience across a range of risk we face , include flooding . we have already take important measure through the creation of the dedicated flood resilience taskforce , the first meeting of which I attend last month . the provision of blue - light escort be clearly a matter of operational policing , but last week my colleague on the London Assembly write to the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster ask for an inquiry into the provision of ticket to politician , include the Labour Mayor of London , and the pressure that be then apply to the Metropolitan police to provide an escort to Taylor Swift . will the right hon . Gentleman conduct a review so that we can see what happen and ensure that , if mistake be make , they be rectify and this do not happen again ? these be operational decision for the police , but I be glad that the person who be currently the big pop star in the world be able to play in London , particularly follow the threat of a terrorist attack at her previous concert in Austria . I be glad that the show go on . it be fantastic to see senior official from the UK ' s close ally in intelligence meet recently to co - ordinate the fight against fraud , which affect the most vulnerable member of my community in Erewash . what step have the Government take to support the Public Sector Fraud Authority to prevent , detect and recover fraud and error ? at the five Eyes summit last month , I reiterate this Government ' s firm commitment to tackle fraud and learning from our close intelligence ally . fraud do not respect international boundary . this be a top priority for this Government , and we be take action to build a wide anti - fraud coalition on advanced artificial intelligence and analytic , and to take further action on enforcement . you will be aware , Mr Speaker , that we be come to the end of Whistleblowing Awareness Week . civil servant and other be minister ' good friend . they be the people who can indicate where to find evidence of fraud , corruption and other criminal activity . may I press minister to create the office of the whistleblower , to give new legal protection , to normalise speak out and to promote great public awareness of whistleblowe right , demonstrate the importance of whistleblower in a fair , open and transparent society ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to draw attention to two thing : the good work that civil servant do and the valuable role that whistleblower play . that be why the last time we be in government , we legislate for legal protection for whistleblower . it be important that people can come forward without fear of what they have to reveal . the United Nations calculate the human development index , which rank country base on GDP per capita , but also include health and education measure such as life expectancy and school enrolment . as an integral part of our mission - lead Government , will the Minister please outline the step they be take across department to ensure health indicator can be consider alongside economic indicator , as a measure of sustainable growth for our country ? we have see record number of our fellow citizen — 2 . 8 million — exclude from the workforce because of long - term sickness . this Government recognise that take action to improve health outcome and address economic inactivity be vital for achieve sustainable economic growth . we will produce a White Paper to get Britain work . that will support other step that we be take across Government , create more good job in clean energy through our modern industrial strategy , make work pay and improve the quality of work through our new deal for work people . we be also commit to cut NHS waiting time , improve mental health support so that we can tackle the root cause of inactivity and fix the foundation . the Paymaster General and Minister for the Cabinet Office , the right hon . member for Torfaen ( Nick Thomas - Symonds ) , give a very helpful reply to a question on infected blood compensation . what discussion have he have with victim and family of the infected blood scandal in Northern Ireland since the final report be publish in August this year ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his interest in this matter and his word of support about the progress the Government have make . Sir Robert Francis conduct an extensive engagement exercise during the general election period , and the Government respond to that by adopt 69 of the 74 recommendation that be subsequently make . I meet victim of the scandal in the day before I make the announcement back in August . I also work closely with the Health Ministers of the devolved Administrations , include Northern Ireland . can the Minister confirm that the procurement reform will consider social value and local impact in contract of government and partner , such as the Crown Estate and great British Energy , in important area where there be World Trade Organisation non - competition exemption , for example float offshore wind contract in the Celtic sea ? they can provide a critical boost to the economy of place such as Cornwall . I thank my hon . friend for that question . I can absolutely confirm that we will do everything we can to ensure the new national policy procurement statement drive social value around community in the UK , in line with our trade obligation . I welcome yesterday ' s publication of the child poverty taskforce framework . be the Minister able to say more about the delivery of the strategy , other than that it will come out in spring ? this show the importance of the issue to the Government . the last time we be in office we reduce child poverty ; it be an issue dear to our heart . that be why the strategy be come forward and why Ministers be work hard on it . we have be clear since we take office that while we want economic growth throughout the country , we also want the benefit to be feel by people in every part of the country and in every income group . I be proud to be part of a mission - lead Government , but mission - lead government be not just about mission ; it be about how the Government do that . do the Minister agree that it should be datum - drive ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . here , in the spirit of the exchange this week , I want to pay tribute to something the previous Government do , which be to improve the data operation at the heart of government . that do help when the Government be form policy . we want to build on that and use datum . it be important that we modernise how government work . the accurate use of datum can help we to make well policy and that be what we want to do . almost 29 , 000 family in Scotland benefit from maternity pay last year , worth over £ 200 million . do the Minister share my concern about suggestion from a conservative party leadership candidate that it should be reduce ? I very much share my hon . friend ' s concern . in fact , the only economic policy we have have so far from the conservative leadership contest have be the suggestion that we reduce maternity pay . that will do nothing for family , nothing for mother and child , and nothing for the good operation of our economy . I hope they think twice about that suggestion . ahead of any Budget , there be always talk about tough decision . could the Minister remind we why we be in this difficult position in the first place , and will he please update we on progress on claw back covid fraud , where we see taxpayer ' money be hand over to former Ministers ' mate ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we know we would inherit a difficult position , but it be much more difficult than we think when we come into office . anybody who object to difficult decision announce in the Budget next week should know where the responsibility for those lie : squarely on the shoulder of the conservative party . it fall to we to clean up the mess we have inherit from the Conservatives . that you will hear more about when the Chancellor get to her foot next week . over the last few year we have see an increase in attack by foreign government on UK cyber - security . will the Minister please update we on what step his Department be take to ensure our public service across the UK be fully protect ? this be vital work for the Government . we have a combination of legacy system with vulnerability and , of course , constant investment in new system to ensure our public service can work in the most modern way . it be really important that we guard against either foreign state interference or other malign actor who would try to disable institution and disable public service through cyber - attack . that be an important part of resilience and an important part of protect service for the public good . will my right hon . friend tell I what step he be take to keep Scotland at the heart of the Union and keep Ayrshire ' s economy grow ? I believe that people in Scotland have tired of the politic of grievance and division . they expect government , whatever their political colour , to work together to promote economic growth , get inward investment in , get good job for people and have good public service . would that not be a refreshing contrast to some of the division we have have in recent year ? Special Educational Needs and Disabilities ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Education if she will make a statement on support for child and young people with special educational need and disability . every child deserve the opportunity to achieve and thrive , but at the moment far from every child be be give that chance . today ' s report from the National Audit Office be , sadly , bang on the money : the system have totally lose the confidence of family . family and child with special educational need be be fail , on every measure , and even shadow Ministers have admit that they should hang their head in shame at the failure to support they . our promise to family be that we be absolutely committed to regain parent ' confidence in the special educational need and disability system , but that will be a huge and complex reform . there be no magic wand and no quick fix , so we continue to ask for patience as we work as quickly as we can to make the change that I know family be cry out for . there be light at the end of the tunnel . today we have publish independently commission insight that suggest that if the system be extensively improve through early intervention and well resource in mainstream school , the need of ten of thousand more child and young people could be meet without an education , health and care plan , and in a mainstream setting rather than a specialist placement . that can pave the way for a sustainable system in which school cater for all child , and special school cater only for those with the most complex need . our plan include strengthen accountability for mainstream setting to be inclusive , for instance through Ofsted , and help the mainstream workforce to have SEND expertise . it be clear that we need to work with the teacher , parent , child , therapist and council who , for so long , have be try but have be set up to fail by a broken system . this work form part of the Government ' s opportunity mission , which will break the unfair link between background and opportunity and will start by give every child , include child with special educational need and disability , the good start in life . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . today ' s National Audit Office report confirm what parent , carer , child and young people across the country have be tell we for year : that our system to support those with special educational need and disability be in crisis and on the brink . the last Conservative Government ' s abject failure to tackle the systemic problem face SEND provision have be lay bare for all to see . with half of child wait long than the statutory 20 week for an education , health and care plan , with outcome not improve , with special school over capacity and , damningly , with the Department for Education not know how much capacity be require to meet future need , we be fail our most vulnerable child . shockingly , 43 % of council be at risk of bankruptcy , give the deficit that they be rack up in their high - need budget . this be a nationwide issue . colleague on both side of the House have , like I , be inundate with casework from concerned and often desperate parent who just want to know that their child will receive the support they need without wait for month or year . the report make clear the urgent need for whole - system reform , with join - up thinking across local and national Government , the NHS and school . will the Minister please give we a clear timeline for the full reform call for by the NAO ? will she consider Liberal Democrat proposal for a new national body for SEND to support child with the most complex need to tackle the postcode lottery ? what step be she take to incentivise early intervention , include training specialist for assessment and reduce the contribution that school have to make before they can apply for an EHCP ? what be she do to speed up the building of state special school , give that local authority be spend a staggering £ 2 billion on independent special school ? be she press the Chancellor for an urgent cash injection in next week ' s Budget so that we can start clean up this mess ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise the issue and bring it to the House . she be absolutely right to draw attention to the National Audit Office report and its damn indictment of a system that have lose the confidence of family and be fail child with special educational need and disability . she rightly call for the system to be reform . that be what this Government be absolutely focused on and determine to do . one of the first difference that we make on come into office be move the special educational need and disability remit within the school sector . [ Official Report , 4 November 2024 ; Vol . 756 , c . 1wc . ] ( correction ) our vision be one of mainstream inclusive education for all child who would benefit from it , while have specialist school where we know that child with the most complex need can have those need meet . that be not be deliver , and for far too many family it be not the reality . it be a reality that we urgently need to see , not only to address the local authority deficit to which the hon . Lady rightly refer , but to create well outcome for child . at the moment , the system cost the Treasury a significant amount . the hon . Lady tempt I into anticipate next week ' s Budget statement or make announcement ahead of it , which she know I can not , but she be right to identify that the system cost an increase amount but be not deliver the outcome that child deserve and family want . we be absolutely determined to reform the system . we be work at pace . all the change that we have make since come into office be to that end . we have launch the curriculum and assessment review , which will support a broad and inclusive education for all child . we have make change to Ofsted ; those change be continue at pace to ensure that the system take into account the whole school life and journey . that include create an inclusive environment for child with special educational need . Most of all , we be determined to restore parent ' trust that , in our education system , if their child have special educational need they will be identify early — we know that early identification be key — and support . we be continue to support early language and speech intervention and to prioritise the roll - out of special educational need training for the early year workforce to ensure that child ' s need can be identify at the early point . we be expand our childcare system to ensure that more child can get into setting as early as possible , so any need can be identify and so we can rebuild the public ' s trust that every child in our state sector will get the opportunity of a fantastic education , regardless of any additional special educational need or disability . I call the Chair of the Select Committee on Education . the National Audit Office report could not be clear : child and young people and their family be be fail by a SEND system that can not meet their need , and local authority be be drive to the edge of a financial precipice by a £ 3 . 4 billion funding gap . this Government have inherit an appalling legacy . the Government be clear that their focus be on the early identification of need and the inclusivity of mainstream school , but the report note that there be currently no process or funding to support early identification , and no specific funding or ofsted measure on SEND support or inclusivity . can the Minister say more about how the Government will provide the resource and the lever of accountability to address the scale of the crisis ? order . can member please all look to the Chair ? you be speak to I , not the Minister . look to the Chair , so I can hear , and then I can help . Minister , you can be a good example for everybody . I welcome my hon . friend to her position as Chair of the Education Committee , which I know will undertake vital work scrutinise the Government ' s approach on this issue and on many other . we know that wide change be need , which be why we have start to make improvement as quickly as possible . the change that I outline to the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) amount to a whole - system change to ensure that the inclusive mainstream education that the National Audit Office have identify will provide the education that many child deserve but be not currently receive . however , it will take time , and we will not be make promise that we can not keep . there be some thing that we can move on very quickly , but there be other that will take time to show . the change that the NAO report highlight as be desperately need will take time , so we ask for patience while we make these incredibly urgent change . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) for secure this urgent question . the opposition welcome the NAO report . every hon . Member will regularly be deal with constituent ' SEND case . the grow demand be why we put major increase in funding in place to ensure that child get the support they need . the last Government work with the sector on comprehensive reform , but since the election we have hear very little from this Government about their plan for reform . we look for more clarity , and we certainly support great inclusivity . with too much variation in the system and parent often have to battle for support , do the Government plan to continue with the Conservatives ' national standard and bring forward a standardised approach to ehcp ? More than 100 , 000 pupil with special educational need be educate at independent school without ehcp . how do the Minister think hit those pupil with a 20 % education tax , with more pupil move into the state sector as a result , will help pressure on school ? what assessment have she make of the increase in EHCP application that that will generate , put further burden on local authority ? can she confirm that the axe that the Education Secretary be hold above free school do not apply to free special school ? finally , council budget be under huge pressure , so be the Minister make the argument to the Treasury to extend the statutory override beyond March 2026 or not ? as I have say , one of the first act of the Education Secretary be to reorganise the Department to make sure that the SEND team sit within our school team and be not separate from it . that speak to the vision that we have for reform : a vision for our whole education system , to create the inclusive mainstream education that we know will provide the good opportunity for the maximum number of child and , as far as possible , keep child with special educational need and disability within the mainstream system with their friend . that be why we have launch the curriculum assessment review . we need to look closely at the key challenge to attainment for young people and the barrier hold they back from access the current mainstream education system . we be work with Ofsted to introduce report card to look at how inclusion can be reflect as part of how school be monitor by Ofsted . we be also increase training for early year provider . we have extend the Nuffield early language intervention programme to make sure that no child ' s need be miss out and that every child can find their voice . we have be very clear : full reform will take time , but nothing be off the table to make sure that every child with SEND can achieve and thrive in mainstream school . we have also start legislative change : the child ' s wellbee Bill will be introduce in the come month . the shadow Minister make a point about private school . end tax break on private school will help to raise the revenue to fund our educational priority for next year , include recruit 6 , 500 new teacher . as he know , the Treasury be consult on plan to enable those change to come into force in January and on how to design those plan to make sure that no child with special educational need on an education , health and care plan will be adversely affect . on the question of free school , the review announce this week relate only to mainstream free school . we be start a process with local authority and trust with the mainstream school that be in scope , with a strong focus on assess that need to make sure that school place be in the local area , where they should be , and that they align with our vision for mainstream inclusive education for every child who need it . nearly 5 % of child in Hackney have an EHCP — and that be not account for other who have special educational need . with school close , we have an opportunity to create alternative provision . the other week , one poor headteacher tell I that more than a third of her reception class have special educational need , most of which be not identify before the child start school . clearly , there be a need for a different vision . will my hon . friend meet I and people from Hackney — or even visit Hackney — to see what we can do with spare school space to motor this change forward in Hackney , fast than be possible nationally ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . she rightly identify the need to ensure that we have the right school place for child whose need be currently not be meet in the most productive way possible . we be open to meet hon . member to discuss where in their constituency this can well be achieve . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss this far . Cambridgeshire county council be fail to meet the condition of the dedicated school grant safety valve agreement , with only 5 % of ehcp be grant within the 20 - week timeframe ; the average in England be 49 % . family in my constituency face huge challenge in ensure that their child ' s education be not disrupt or negatively impact . how do the Government plan to address these unacceptable delay ? the hon . member be right to identify those challenge . in its analysis , publish today , the National Audit Office say that the current system be not work and not serve the need of child and their family in the way that it should . we be move at pace to review the system in a wholesale way , and the change that I have outline will support that . in addition , we will legislate to ensure that local authority can plan properly for place and admission in their area . we want every state school , regardless of how they be establish , to co - operate in ensure that place be there for the child who need they . I have outline a whole range of change that will seek to address the problem that he mention . I be in no doubt that the Labour Government have a terrible inheritance on SEND provision , but child in my constituency of Easington who rely on service provide by the Tees , Esk and wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust face unreasonably long waiting time . incredibly , they have to wait up to five year for assessment for autism , attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and other related condition . what step be the Minister take to reduce those unacceptably long waiting list , and support both child and their family during these lengthy wait for assessment ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I reiterate that the Government have inherit a terrible legacy , not only on special educational need and disability , but on our public spending and the state of our public service overall . the example he raise be good , as it highlight the importance of work across Government to resolve issue and help the family who need support . whether that be do through the education system , which my Department be responsible for , or through the health service , we need to work collaboratively across Government to address the huge backlog that far too many people face in get the support that they need . I can assure he that that be a priority for we . in the past two week , I have meet two family whose child be suicidal , one of whom be nine year old . the other one be commit to a secure unit for most of 2023 . the cause of their suicidal thought be their educational need not be meet by the education system . neither of those child have ehcp . Conservative - control West Sussex county council be complete only 9 . 4 % of ehcp within 20 week . one block be the lack of educational psychologist . do the Minister agree that increase the supply of educational psychologist be essential ? I be so sorry to hear about the case the hon . Lady raise . she highlight very well the huge challenge that we face in address need — in ensure that we have not only the inclusive mainstream education system that every child should feel they belong in , and that provide the education they need , but the mental health support that we know be sadly lack . the waiting list be too long for far too many child and family . we be prioritise investment to ensure mental health support and educational psychologist be available in school , because we know how important it be to get the right support in place to help the family and individual affect , and to enable school to address these need . after today ' s shocking report , do the Minister agree with I that we need to rebuild the SEND system from the ground up ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . this change need to be deliver in conjunction with teacher , family , council , educational psychologist and the health sector . we need to work together to ensure support be available at every stage . the system need reform and significant change . we can not carry on as we be with this " lose , lose , lose " system , which be let down far too many family . be the Government surge support to local authority to help they process and complete ehcp within the statutory timeframe ? my community be see a significant increase in application because of the decision to impose vat on independent school . I have three SEND school — [ interruption . ] Government Members may shout , but that be the reality my council face . I be ask for urgent support for those council that have to deal with these increase number . we have be clear about our manifesto commitment and our approach in Government . our priority be to ensure that we have the investment in our school that we need in order to ensure that every child have the teaching and the school experience that they deserve . we know that council be face significant challenge processing application and deliver for child with special educational need after 14 year of a system that have let down family and child , and which the former Secretary of State for Education herself describe as " lose , lose , lose . " this be the legacy we be deal with and the mess we be clear up , but we be determined to do that for family and child who we know deserve well . sadly , today ' s report confirm what many parent in my constituency of Leeds South West and Morley have be tell I since long before the election : the SEND system in this country be fail . as a secondary school math teacher , I know all too well that SEND provision be not up to scratch . I have see at first hand that , after 14 year of negligence by the Conservative party , parent and child have lose hope of ever see an improvement in the system , follow the SEND crisis . do the Minister agree that although there be no silver bullet , we must improve the SEND system and give people hope that it will improve ? order . this urgent question will run until about 11 . 30 be , so if I be to get everyone in , we will have to speed up the question and answer . I want to take as many question as possible , as this be a very important subject to all of we . thank you , Mr Speaker . it be understandable that a huge number of hon . member want to ask question on this subject . we have inherit an appalling legacy of failure on this front . we have prioritise the issue and we be determined to fix it , but that will take time , as hon . member have recognise , but we be move at pace to fix the broken system . parent and teacher in North Herefordshire tell I how concerned they be that special educational need funding have stagnate for the last 10 year , while need have increase . I visit Westfield school in my constituency , which be in desperate need of capital investment . it be allocate funding under the school rebuilding programme , but the implementation of that programme have be very slow . can the Minister assure I that she remain committed to the programme , that it be on track , and that she will amend the way that the funding system work to incentivise mainstream inclusion ? on the hon . Lady ' s final question , I can assure she that we be determined to prioritise mainstream inclusion , and to ensure that school be support . we will have the framework in place to encourage , incentivise and support school to do what we know will create the good outcome for the vast majority of child in this country : inclusion in a mainstream system where they can thrive . give today ' s report , and the shocking and devastating impact that the reality have on child , young people and their family , what message do the Minister have for the child and young people with SEND and their family in Portsmouth North ? we recognise how challenging this situation be for family who be not get the support they need for special education need or disability . we know that the system be break — the National Audit Office report lay it out bare . we be determined to fix this ; that be the message that I want to send . within five month of enter office , this Government will introduce vat on independent school , with all the impact that may have on the state sector . how long will we have to wait for an actual plan for SEND child , rather than just political posturing around vat ? the change that we have set out and be determined to make all aim to improve the situation that we have inherit , after 14 year of neglect and decline under the previous Government . I have set out at length all the change that we seek to make through legislation — and the change we have already make — to our education system to ensure an inclusive mainstream , and high and rise standard and opportunity for all . today ' s report be damn but not surprising . it be an indictment of the former Government and their 14 year of failure . even today , they shamelessly deflect and gaslight the very family whom they have fail . independent SEND provision be grow in Southampton Itchen and across the country . those place be need , but council be leave at the mercy of market price and — often , when it come to residential care — venture capitalist . that be wrong . do the Minister agree that as part of whole - system reform we must return to basic , and that profiteer from SEND be the wrong approach ? will she meet I and my constituent to hear what they want from this whole - system reform ? my hon . friend raise an important challenge that we be determined to address . we want mainstream inclusive education in our state school system , which every child should have access to and thrive in . however , we need specialist place for child with complex need when that be the only place where their need can be meet , and a system that not only well serve the need of child but be sustainable . I will take away his comment , and that will be part of our thinking as we go ahead . other member have ask about educational psychologist . there be a real shortage right now . be the Government consider enable other professional to undertake some of the assessment to help unblock the waiting list ? I thank the hon . Lady for the constructive way in which she put her question . I will take it away , and consider how it would fit into our broad plan to ensure that we have an education system that can meet the need of child in term of both their educational requirement and their mental health , special educational need and disability requirement , within a broad health system that can meet those need as well . far too many family in my constituency have come to I in tear , not just at the lack of support for their child with SEND but at a system that seem set up to stop they get that support . how many appeal be successful because they should have get through the first time around ? People feel they be be let down by the system , so will the Minister please ensure that our reform system will not make family have to fight to get the support that their child so desperately need ? my hon . friend be right : the system be let down family and child , and create a situation where not only be educational outcome impact by the poor response but too many family ' life be affect by try to deal with the system . that be why we be determined to reform it . the evidence show very clearly that inclusive mainstream school that meet demand will reduce the need for education , health and care plan , and the need for family to go through the process in the first place . what additional resource will the Government provide to Worcestershire county council , give what will undoubtedly be the profound and devastating impact of the Government ' s education tax ? the change that we be look to make to remove the exemption for private school will be use to fund more teacher in our state sector and create the inclusive mainstream education that we know every child deserve . SEND provision in Conservative - run Norfolk have collapse after year of adversarial mismanagement by the county council . I welcome the step that my hon . friend have take so far . will she commit to recognise the value of co - production to ensure that SEND family voice be value and money be spend wisely ? we be very clear that this reform be a journey that we want to go on with all those who support our child and family , whether that be teacher , school staff more broadly , education professional , health professional or local authority . everybody want this to work well , and we need to work together to achieve it . datum for autumn 2023 and spring 2024 show that more than a third of child with an EHC plan be persistently absent — more than double the rate for pupil without identify SEND . persistent absence be a very complex issue , and a multi - faceted approach be need to tackle the problem . in the light of this damn report from the National Audit Office , do the Minister agree that we can not have parent face prosecution for the failing of the system ? how will she work across Government to ensure that parent of child with SEND can be sure that their child will get the support that they need to attend school safely and receive the education that they deserve ? the Government have inherit an absence epidemic in this country . last year , one in five child be persistently absent from school , miss a day every fortnight or more . we know that strong foundation be root in attendance at school . child can not receive an outstanding education that unlock opportunity if they be not in school . I recognise the challenge that the hon . Lady have set out . it be important that we work together to create an inclusive mainstream education system that every child want to attend and feel they belong to , so that those opportunity be unlocked for they , as they should be for every child in this country . I thank the Minister for her statement on this damn report on SEND . last week , the Minister and the Secretary of State visit my constituency . we go to Mount Pleasant Primary , a shine example of inclusive mainstream SEND provision in the state sector . do the Minister agree with I and the teacher there that child with physical condition and disability could be refer for an EHCP by their gp much early , so that they arrive at school with everything they need in place , ready to excel in their education ? the visit to that school in my hon . friend ' s constituency be wonderful . the school be one of many example of the provision of inclusive mainstream education . we need such provision to be in school in every community and available to every child . she rightly recognise the challenge of co - ordinating between health service and education provision , and the vital importance of those system work together to achieve outcome for child . I will certainly take away her specific suggestion and share it with my colleague in the Department for Health and Social Care . parent in my constituency be not interested in what the Minister think about the conservative party . they may recall that ehcp be introduce under the coalition Government . they want we to work together to make thing well . we all know that a problem with ehcp have lead to a tripling of cost for county council . in the Westminster Hall debate that the Minister take part in with I recently , she be much more constructive than she be be today , and I would like to believe that that be the approach that she want to take to these issue . do she have a timescale for the reform of ehcp ? I appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s comment , and I will always work cross - party with colleague to achieve the good for all child in this country , but level the blame for the current situation at a Government only five month old can not be accept ; the inheritance that we have take on can not be underestimate . we will continue to work on put right what have be fail for the past 14 year , and the Department for Education be move at pace on work to that end . we will make specific suggestion for legislative change , and for any other necessary systemic change , in due course . many concerned parent write to I at the start of term because they have finally be give a school place for their child with special educational need but have no transport to get their child to and from school . will the Minister reassure my constituent that we will take measure to ensure that every child with special educational need have a reliable and safe mean of get to and from school ? transport to school be the responsibility of the local authority , and family need to work with their local authority to ensure that they be not disadvantaged in get their child to school by transport . I appreciate that that be a challenge — our transport system , too , be in crisis after 14 year of Conservative Government — but we will continue to work across Government to ensure that all our public service meet the need of family . in the interim , my hon . friend ' s constituent should work with the local authority to ensure that they get the transport they require for their child ' s educational need . Zak be nine year old . he be one of dozen of child in my constituency who have be fail by the SEND system . Zak be traumatise by his experience in an inappropriate school setting , cause his learning to regress and both his parent to stop work . Oxfordshire county council have an accumulate high need deficit of £ 56 million because of inadequate funding , which have fail family such as Zak ' s . have the Minister press the Treasury to increase that funding and maintain the statutory override in next week ' s Budget ? the hon . Gentleman tempt I into commentary on next week ' s Budget , in which I can not indulge he . I speak both as a parent whose child be badly fail in SEND provision under the last government , and as an MP whose surgery have be visit on every single occasion by a parent who be struggle not just to get an ehcp but to get from a school the flexibility that match their child ' s need . I say respectfully to Opposition Members — include the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) — that until and unless you have walk in my shoe and the shoe of your constituent , you should show a little humility and decorum in how you respond on this issue . in the review , will the Minister encourage school to be more flexible in their SEND provision for child who need it ? order . I remind member that when they say " you " , they mean I — and I do not want responsibility . my hon . friend speak with great passion and compassion on behalf of her constituent , and I agree with everything that she say . I reiterate that what she outline be the epitome of what we be seek to achieve on inclusive mainstream education , so that it can meet the need of the vast majority of child with special educational need and disability in our country . child with special educational need in Harrow face long journey to get to the school they need in order to deal with their problem , something that the previous Government recognise . the three mps in the area , on a cross - party basis , the council and all the headteacher agree that there be the need for a new special educational need school in Harrow . the site have be acquire , but since the general election everything have go quiet . I do not expect the Minister to give an update here and now , but will she undertake to review the position and come back to the three mp and the council to ensure that we provide that school for the benefit of the child of Harrow ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to identify the current significant transport requirement to meet the need of child . obviously , the way that we wish to address that be to ensure that there be inclusive mainstream education available in every community for every child , and we be work at pace to achieve that . the special school be under review and we will report back as soon as possible . what more can the Minister do , work with her ministerial colleague , to ensure that integrate care board such as those in Cheshire and Warrington meet their part of the statutory obligation of 20 week for ehcp ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the need for the Department for Education , the Department of Health and Social Care , and all those work to provide the service that child and family rely on , to work together to achieve that statutory obligation . I will take his question away and feed it back to my colleague in the Health Department . I would like to raise the issue of child be off - roll and put into alternative provision . I speak as not only an MP but a parent who this have happen to , and I have a constituency meeting on Saturday where it be the subject . be the Minister aware that child who be put in alternative provision be entitle only to 15 hour a week of education ? there be absolutely no way they can recover and go on to achieve properly on 15 hour a week . I ask the Minister to consider how that fit with the new curriculum plan . we be look at the system in the round , which include ensure that we have inclusive mainstream education , and make sure that school be require to work with local authority on admission and off - roll , so that there be the provision within community that child rely on . where special school or alternative provision be require , it be important to ensure there be an opportunity to break down the barrier for young people . ideally , the vast majority of child can go back into the mainstream system as part of that inclusive provision . I will take away the hon . member ' s specific query . it be an issue we be look at as part of the wide system . I know from speak to family in Oldbury , Oakham and other part of my constituency , just what a SEND crisis the last Government leave we with . even when child finally get their ehcp , parent still feel as if they be have to fight for every bit of support that they need . we can not fix that overnight , but can the Minister set out what step she be take to give family in Sandwell some hope that thing will change ? although the urgent question today have come about because of a damn report from the National Audit Office , which lay bare the huge challenge we face in this area , my main purpose in respond — an opportunity I be grateful for — be to restore hope for family : it be a priority for this Government and we be determined to fix it . that should give hope to the constituent whom my hon . friend serve . on a recent visit to a school in my constituency , it be put to I that not all school fully participate in deal with special need child , and my casework over the year substantiate that . what effort be the Minister make to ensure that all school participate fully ? the hon . Gentleman be right to identify that all school be part of solve this huge challenge that far too many child and family face . that be why we have make change to how Ofsted assess school , change that be still in progress ; it be why we be carry out the curriculum and assessment review and look at attendance measure ; and it be why we be look at local authority co - operation with school , to make sure that all school within a local area can work together to ensure that inclusive mainstream education be available for all . a mother in my constituency come to see I . her son have be off - roll from mainstream primary school , which she would like he to attend , and offer only a distant special school that be entirely inappropriate for his need . she would like to know why Durham county council be prepared to spend £ 30 , 000 a year on transport for her son to attend a school that she do not feel be appropriate for he , but will not spend the same amount on a classroom assistant who could help he to be in mainstream school . that be happen under rule introduce by the previous Government . will the Minister meet I to discuss this ? I would be happy to meet my hon . friend . he have outline just one example of how the system be break and need to be fix . parent and child in Chichester have lose confidence in the SEND system , with family effectively pit against each other and against Conservative - lead West Sussex county council , which this year deliver only 10 % of its ehcp within the 20 - week statutory framework . do the Minister agree that be unacceptable , and will she meet I and other West Sussex mps to discuss this specific issue that West Sussex county council seem to have ? the hon . Lady have outline how the system be break . we know it be break . we want to fix it , and I be happy to work with colleague across the House in order to do so , so I would be happy to meet she , as she suggest . this damn report will come as no surprise to too many family across Oldham and Saddleworth . give that there be a difference of nearly 20 % between SEND child be in education and training and non - SEND child , what be we do to ensure that SEND provision and support be available in foundation apprenticeship ? my hon . friend highlight the fact that not only be the system create stress and fail far too many child and family , but it be not create the outcome that we want to see for every child , include those with special educational need and disability . I will raise the important point she have make with my colleague in the Department of Health who have responsibility for apprenticeship . [ Official Report , 4 November 2024 ; Vol . 756 , c . 2wc . ] ( Correction ) on Friday afternoon , alongside my right hon . friend the Members for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) and for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , I arrange a meeting with parent , governor and teacher at independent school . they be unanimous that impose an education tax partway through an academic year will have disastrous impact on the education of every child , but especially those with special educational need . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact of labour ' s education tax on the caseload of ehcp , and on the capacity of local authority such as Surrey and Hampshire to meet they ? the Treasury will produce its impact assessment as part of the normal course of implement new taxation , and the hon . Gentleman can refer to that assessment once it be publish . I have be work with parent of child with SEND for a number of month now . they talk to I about their child ' s experience in mainstream school and the fact that the support have not be what it should be , even though they be look for an inclusive education for their child . can the Minister outline what support mainstream school might need in the near future in order to provide that truly inclusive education to so many child who have be let down ? my hon . friend raise an important point : it be right that we require school to provide inclusive mainstream education , and that we put in place the work - force , the training , and all the support that be necessary for that to be deliver . that be why one of our priority be to have 6 , 500 more teacher within our teaching system , to ensure we have the specialist teacher that every child should have . we be look at training ; additional training support for special educational need and disability have already be roll out for the early year , and we want to ensure all school have access to high - quality training that support they to meet that need . demand for ehcp for child in Somerset have triple in six year , and the county ' s SEND budget be forecast to be in deficit by £ 290 million in the next five year . previously , Somerset spend , on average , £ 22 , 000 per child with an EHCP , but now that be £ 18 , 000 . so this be not about overspending ; it be about the increase number of child need help . as a start , could the Minister look at the current legislation , which lack clear definition of which child should be assess or fund ? this ambiguity , especially post covid , have lead to a huge and rapid increase in the number of child need support . the hon . Lady raise an important point . we will be look at the system as a whole , and at any legislation that need to be amend or bring in to achieve our vision for an inclusive mainstream education that not only provide education for all child regardless of their special educational need and disability , but provide specialist place for those with the most complex need that can not be meet within mainstream education . we know the evidence show that , where those need be be meet within the inclusive mainstream education system , the need for ehcp be significantly reduce . last year alone , my local authority of North East Lincolnshire spend £ 1 . 3 million send 114 child out of area to special educational need setting . could the Minister reassure constituent across North East Lincolnshire and in my constituency of Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes that the action she be take will not only support local authority and reduce these additional cost , but provide the kind of education their child need close to home ? my hon . friend set out very well the vision that we be seek to achieve for all child . the purpose of all the change we be make in our education system be to ensure that inclusive mainstream education be available to all child and that there be specialist place for child with the most complex need . with more and more child require SEND provision , the scale of the challenge be undoubtedly large . the previous Conservative Government do offer a beacon of hope for child in Buckinghamshire , with the previous Secretary of State confirm funding for a new SEND school in the county . can the Minister confirm whether those fund be still secure and whether Buckinghamshire will still get that new SEND school ? as the hon . Member be aware , we be look at the whole system in the round to ensure that we have the inclusive mainstream provision that the vast majority of child will not only benefit from but do well in , and that we have specialist place where they be need . we be work at pace to ensure that we have the right place for the child who need they as fast as possible . I draw the House ' s attention to my register interest as a governor of a special educational need school . the Minister have rightly point out the failure of the SEN system over many year , but it be important that we recognise the herculean effort make by teacher and support staff in school , and it be not those individual who have fail young people . far to her answer to my hon . friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) , could the Minister outline how she will engage with representative body of teacher and support staff in school to ensure that they be include in the rescue plan ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we in government can not deliver any of the change we want to see ; it will be deliver by the teacher , the support staff , the education professional and the health professional in our system . he be right to draw attention to their valiant effort in a system that have be let down they and the child and family they serve . we will be legislate to bring in the school support staff negotiate body to ensure that the support staff in our school , who be the lifeblood of so much of what be provide to our child , have their voice as part of the national conversation . Somerset have the third high rate of school exclusion and the second high rate of suspension in England for child with SEND . do the Minister agree with today ' s National Audit Office report confirm that the Government must develop a whole - system approach , to ensure that the most vulnerable student in Glastonbury and Somerton get the education they deserve ? I absolutely agree with the National Audit Office . although it be a damn report , we recognise much of what it say and be determined to fix it and put it right in the way the hon . Lady suggest . SEND be the single great issue face school in my constituency , and I have have far too many heartbreaking conversation with family who be not get the support they need . do my hon . friend agree that supportive early intervention and diagnosis be the single most effective way of reduce this demand and ensure well outcome ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . early diagnosis and early intervention be know to significantly improve the opportunity and outcome for child with special educational need and disability , but one of the big challenge in this space be the battle that many family face with a system that be let they down , and we be determined to change that . special need education be underfunde by the previous Government , affect many family in my constituency . I know that the Government have be leave with a £ 22 billion hole in the country ' s finance , but will the Minister ensure that there be an increase in funding for SEND education in the local government settlement at the end of this year ? I recognise the challenge that the hon . Gentleman raise . he tempt I into anticipate the Budget statement next week , but I will say that we recognise the challenge that many local authority be face and be alive to those concern . the adversarial system have cause such damage and upset . can the Minister confirm that she will look towards a system in which expectation be clear and co - produce , and will she also look at the funding formula more generally , because some place have far less high need and direct funding for student than other even though they have to cover much great distance ? my hon . friend raise a number of issue and I fear we be run out of time to give they the response they deserve . I will be happy to respond in more detail in writing because she do raise some important issue that we be determined to address . projection show a cumulative deficit of over £ 4 billion on educational balance sheet by 2026 , and the override mechanism ending , which will allocate those deficit to county balance sheet . this be a pende disaster for local authority , and the report suggest that it will push 43 % into bankruptcy . the report ' s conclusion be that the SEND system , if unreformed , be financially unsustainable , yet we have not hear meaningful plan for reform . will the Minister take this opportunity to commit to the national body for SEND that be include in the liberal Democrats manifesto , which will end the postcode lottery , ensure funding for high need student and address the urgent funding crisis for local government ? the hon . Gentleman be right that the NAO have identify that the system be currently unsustainable , and not only be it financially unsustainable but it be not sustainable for the child and their family that be be let down . the Government be determined to fix this and be work at pace to do so . a whole 10 % of my constituency casework relate to SEND provision , so I recently issue a public letter to Conservative - lead Derbyshire county council express my deep concern over the state of its provision as many affected family feel voiceless . what step will the Government take to ensure that council , include Derbyshire county council , actually fulfil their responsibility to child and family ? council be at the forefront of seek to meet the need of child with special educational need and disability and their family , and they be be let down by a system that be break and that the NAO show be completely unsustainable . so we will work at pace in government , work with teacher , parent , school , school support staff , the health service and local authority to ensure that child get the opportunity they deserve . Devon county council project an overspend on special educational need of £ 38 . 5 million . that be explain partly by additional travel cost in rural area such as mine in mid and east Devon . the last Conservative Government threaten that such an overspend would put at risk the so - call safety valve for Devon . how will the Minister help enable good - quality SEND support to be deliver close to home ? the hon . Gentleman be right that the solution to many of these challenge be to create inclusive mainstream education in every community , so that every child can benefit from it and thrive . parent want the good for their child , school want to deliver the good for their child and local authority want to provide the good for their child , but the system set everybody up to fail . it be adversarial instead of be person - centre , and it actively incentivise bad outcome . I be pleased to hear the Minister say that we need to rebuild the system from the ground up , but do she agree that that need to go hand in hand with rebuild child and adolescent mental health service and improve the speed of diagnosis for autism and ADHD ? will she commit to work with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to help deliver that ? my hon . friend make the case very well . I agree that we need to work at pace to improve the mental health support available for young people , to improve the availability of educational psychologist and to work across government , include with colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care , to ensure that we be unlock opportunity for all . I thank the Minister very much for her answer to the question and for always try to be helpful . Movilla high school in my constituency have increase its enrolment from 402 to 600 pupil . that be because staff have work hard , but also because education authority support have enable the school to extend the special provision for pupil with autism to include 10 and 11 - year - old . it have establish two nurture class in the mainstream . do the Minister agree that additional funding to create SEND unit within the mainstream for the pupil who need support be a way forward ? will she consider that suggestion to make life well ? the hon . Gentleman be , as always , characteristically constructive in his contribution , and I thank he for that . I be more than happy to take away his suggestion and consider it as part of our wide reform of the system . there be more than 20 case in my constituency of child with special educational need and disability who be miss out on care and school placement , and I be meet the council about they tomorrow . I thank the Minister for speak with I this week about the concern of family . can we make it a priority to help local authority to offer these child the good possible placement ? I wish my hon . friend well in her meeting tomorrow . we know the challenge in the system , and they be lay bare in the National Audit Office report . there be no shortage of will right across the House to get this right and to put the system right . as we draw to the end of these question , I must reiterate that it will take patience , because there be no quick fix to the situation we have inherit . however , we be determined to fix it , and we will do so on an ongoing basis and as quickly as possible . Saxon Hill academy in my constituency do amazing work to support young people between the age of two and 19 with physical disability and complex need , but for many of the student , it be much more than a school . it be literally a home away from home , due to its sleepover club , which allow pupil to stay at the school overnight one night a week . the funding for that provision be extend for two year in December last year . can the Minister assure I that as part of the Government ' s SEND review , we will look at sustainable funding for such additional provision ? my hon . friend raise an important point . we need to move to a more sustainable footing in the long term and make sure that council can plan ahead . that be something we be look at . an entire generation of Milton Keynes child with SEND need have be let down by the previous Government . in addition , the cut to local council and school have make the situation much bad , particularly in respect of high - level teaching assistant , who be crucial to ensure early detection of and ongoing support for child with SEND in mainstream education . will the Minister ensure that the school support staff who do that important work be include in this essential review to support child in Milton Keynes ? absolutely . I be always very careful to say that we thank and applaud both the teacher in our school and the incredible support staff , who not only support teacher in their role but ensure that every school can function and provide the opportunity that we know will enable all child to thrive . that complete the urgent question , but let I say to all those in the Chamber that I think this be a very important issue . I do not think there be a constituency that be not affect by it . thank to the Minister and thank for all the contribution , which be certainly on the record now . business of the House will the Leader of the House update the House on the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 28 October include : Monday 28 October — general debate on remembrance and the contribution of veteran . Tuesday 29 October — remain stage of the great british Energy Bill . Wednesday 30 October — my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer will deliver her Budget statement . Thursday 31 October — Continuation of the Budget debate . Friday 1 November — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 4 November will include : Monday 4 November — Continuation of the Budget debate . Tuesday 5 November — Continuation of the Budget debate . Wednesday 6 November — Conclusion of the Budget debate . the House will rise for the November recess at the conclusion of business on Wednesday 6 November and return on Monday 11 November . it be rather tell that only one Government Member appear to be excited about the prospect of the Budget next week . they obviously know what be come . let I start by congratulate Morgan Edwards on his appointment as director of customer experience and service delivery here in Parliament . he start his role in December . apparently he be previously employ at Legoland in Windsor . quite why the parliamentary authority think someone with experience of preside over squabbling juvenile be well suited to work here , I really do not know . I have to say that the business have be a little thin in recent week . we have a general debate today and a general debate on Monday — we have have no few than 10 day of general debate so far . yesterday , we have regulation that would ordinarily be take in Committee , and business end early on Tuesday . we expect that at the end of a Government ' s time in office , but it be a little early for this Government to be run out of steam . at this point in the 2019 Parliament , we have have 31 new Bills introduce ; we currently have only 18 , a third of which have be publish or consult upon previously , and those Bills that be come forward be be rush . the Employment Rights Bill , which have its second reading on Monday , have much of its policy defer into regulation , to be debate in Committee at some point in the future , deny the full House the opportunity to properly debate those important issue . when it come to the winter fuel payment regulation , which we discuss previously , we should have have the report of the Social Security Advisory Committee before we debate and vote on that important measure . the committee have now finally write its report , and it say that it be concerned about the take - up of pension credit , that the Government ' s forecast of fiscal saving have question mark hang over they and that we need a full impact assessment , which the Government do not bother provide . the committee have also call for specific change to the regulation . will the Leader of the House bring the regulation back to the House for we to consider again now that we have the committee ' s report and it have recommend change ? I believe that the Prime Minister be in Samoa attend the Commonwealth Heads of Government summit . will the Leader of the House confirm that he will make a statement upon his return next week ? I understand that one of the topic under discussion be the question of reparation . my view be that it be totally wrong to be demand money , amount to as much as £ 18 trillion , for sin — very serious sin — commit hundred of year ago . will the Leader of the House confirm that it be her view and the Government ' s that it be totally wrong to entertain discussion about reparation in relation to thing that happen hundred and hundred of year ago ? I believe that be the Government ' s position , and I believe the Prime Minister have rule out even enter into discussion on that topic , quite rightly . will she confirm that that remain the position of his Majesty ' s Government ? finally , I ask the Leader of the House to organise a debate on foreign interference in election — an important topic that concern we all , and something that member on both side of the House have criticise . I understand that more than 100 Labour party staffer be enjoy themselves in the United States in the presidential election that be under way . minister have claim that this be all spontaneous and have all be organise and pay for by the staffer themselves , but that claim appear , to put it politely , grossly implausible now that it have emerge in a now - delete social medium post that the whole thing be arrange by the Labour party ' s director of operation , Sofia Patel . she write in that delete post that there be " 10 spot available " for campaign in the swing state of North Carolina , and she say , " we will sort your housing " . it look to I as though that be be organise by the Labour party ' s director of operation . do the Leader of the House agree that it be damaging to our national interest — this be a serious point — if the govern party , the Labour party , be organise interference or campaign in another country ' s election ? [ interruption . ] do she agree that it will make it difficult for his Majesty ' s Government to deal with the newly elect Administration in America if the other side win , and that that will undermine our national interest ? do she accept that by engage in organise campaigning in this way , Labour be put party interest before national interest , and will she organise that debate ? [ interruption . ] order . please , I do not need further comment . I be sure member be try to catch my eye , but that be not the good way to do it . I join the shadow Leader of the House in welcome Morgan Edwards to this place . I be sure he bring great experience from Legoland that can be bring to bear in this Chamber . I send my condolence to the family of Geoff Capes . as a child of the ' 80 , I remember what a legend he be , and I believe his shot put record be still unbroken . I take this opportunity once again to point the House to the call for view launch by the Modernisation Committee last week . tomorrow , new limitation on mps ' second job come into force . the House will remember that before recess , we vote to remove the exemption on pay advocacy role . I want to give Members time to adjust to the new rule , hence why they be come into force tomorrow . that be a manifesto commitment and we be determined to restore trust in politic , raise standard and deliver on our manifesto commitment . the shadow Leader of the House again mention winter fuel payment . I gently remind he once again that we publish an equality impact assessment , which we be not require to do , but we be forthcoming with it . we bring forward to this House — I do not think this would have happen under the previous Government — a full vote on the measure , and they be clearly pass by this place . the shadow Leader of the House ask about the Prime Minister ' s visit to CHOGM . I can confirm that there will be a statement from the Foreign Secretary next week about that and other matter , and I look forward to the right hon . Gentleman ask some question . the issue of reparation be important , and I be glad that he have raise it . we recognise the horrific impact and the understandable and ongoing strength of feeling across the Commonwealth and other community about these matter . he be right , however , that our position on reparation have not change . at the conference this week , we be commit to work with our Commonwealth partner on the very pressing issue that we face today , and look forward to the future , not look to the past . the right hon . Gentleman raise the issue of campaign in the United States and elsewhere . I note that he want a full debate on that while also question why we be offer full general debate on other issue ; I be not sure whether want that general debate or not . campaign abroad happen in every election . People do that in a personal capacity , as well he know . this be a bit rich , really , come from the conservative party . its would - be leader have spend week debate and argue over who would or would not vote for Donald Trump . the former Prime Minister Liz Truss go to the republican national convention and spend her time there discredit the sit President . order . just to say , those other be not mp , by the way . I feel that it be a bit rich . it be for the american people to decide who their next President be and this Government be commit and determine to work with whoever win that election . the right hon . Gentleman then raise issue of business , which I will happily come on to . today mark our 30th sitting day since we win that landslide general election victory . in that time , we have introduce 20 Bills — that be 20 Bills in 30 sit day : over half of our king ' s Speech programme have already be introduce . I remind he that that be way more than the coalition Conservative Government manage in the whole of 2010 , which be the last time we have a change of Government . we have pass our first Labour Act in 14 year and make 34 statement to Parliament — more than one a day . there be still much more to come , and I be sure the right hon . Gentleman want to know about it — on planning , border control , education , mental health , crime and policing , great British Railways , the Hillsborough law , bus and much , much more . he and I both sit through the last Parliament , although other here do not : we both know that at the end it really be a zombie Parliament , clock off early on seven out of 10 day in its last year . the last Government have run out of idea and could not agree on what to do and when , so they do nothing . they dither and delay on their own flagship legislation , and we be get on with deliver some of the thing that they fail to do . for example , this morning there be the Football Governance Bill , which they long promise . we have reintroduce it , strengthen the position of fan and financial sustainability in the game . we be deliver where the previous Government do not . what about the Renters ' Right Bill , which the previous Government have long plan but never fulfil ? we have take it forward . perhaps the most disingenuous example of all be Martyn ' s law . the then Prime Minister promise to introduce it by the summer on the day before he call a general election , know full well that he be not go to be able to introduce it at all . we have bring it in . frankly , we have bring more change to this country in our 30 sit day than the previous Government do in 14 sorry , sorry year . if the shadow Leader of the House really want to look at effective use of time , he might ask what his own party have be do for the last few month . it seem to have take three and a half month to whittle five candidate down to just two — not that anyone have particularly notice . however , it be fair to say that we have see a few sign of life in recent day . the Conservatives have finally show a bit of oomph , a bit of what it be all about to be the party of opposition — they have take a really principle stance : to stand against the abolition of hereditary peer . on Monday , I visit Keech hospice , which serve many resident in Luton North . as always , it be inspiring to see the care that it offer child and adult at their time of need . but it be not without its challenge . whether through time for debate or the new Government ' s NHS consultation , how can we well ensure that funding for hospice care be give the attention it so richly deserve ? my hon . friend raise an important issue that have be raise a number of time during business question . we want a society where every person receive high - quality , compassionate care at the end of their life . it be a cry shame that the hospice sector rely so heavily on fundraising and voluntary support . we will continue to work closely with the sector to make sure that it can survive and thrive go forward . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the emphasis that the Leader of the House place on the Modernisation Committee ' s call for view . I be sure that many member have be sidle up to she and say , as they have to I , " Wouldn ' t it be good if we could change this particular aspect of the way in which Parliament do thing ? " I be pleased to be able , now , to direct they to the Modernisation Committee ' s website , where they can submit their own view , and I encourage they to do so . I also thank the Leader of the House for present the business programme . I note that several day have be provide for the Budget debate , to which I be sure we be all look forward — although I be not totally convinced that the shadow Leader of the House and the official opposition be look forward to it . if report in the medium be to be believe , they have the opportunity to change the timetable for their leadership election so that the new leader might be able to respond to the Budget , but it appear that they be not too keen on that idea . perhaps they be not entirely confident of their own ability to respond to the Budget , but we shall see what happen . many of the question to Ministers from member on both side of the House be regularly be answer with a rather frustrating , " wait until the Budget . " however , while many of we understand that there be good reason for the fact that detailed response often can not be give ahead of the Budget , time be tick on , and the season do not really seem to care about the Government ' s timetable . winter be fast approach , but our NHS do not have the funding that it need to fully support local health service . accord to figure from the House of Commons Library follow work commission by the Liberal Democrats , 12 - hour wait time at A & E have be go up and up throughout the country . I be extremely worried about what that mean for my constituent , and I be sure that other member will be concern about theirs . the Royal College of Emergency Medicine have previously estimate that long A & E delay lead to about 14 , 000 excess death last year , which mean that 268 people have be die , unnecessarily , every week because they be have to wait too long to be see . it really be a matter of life and death , and that be unacceptable . yes , it be another damn indictment of the last Conservative Government ' s failure to get a grip on healthcare in this country , but it be what we do right now that really matter . make no mistake : it be a choice , and we can choose to fix this . while the Liberal Democrats be call for a wide funding boost for the whole of the NHS , we can not keep lurch from winter crisis to winter crisis . will the Leader of the House call on the Chancellor to create a new ringfence fund — order . a ringfenced fund that take account of the average emergency winter funding for the NHS — order . one of we be go to sit down , and it certainly be not go to be I . the hon . Lady have already take three minute . she should not start speak fast and more loudly just to try and stop I . she must come to an end now , and do so very quickly . thank you , Mr Speaker . will the Chancellor set aside money to be spend on build up winter resilience and winter - proof the NHS ? I thank the hon . Lady , and echo her comment about the Modernisation Committee . it have capture a great deal of interest in this place , and I encourage member to do as she suggest . she be entirely right about the conservative party ' s leadership race . it be a matter for the Conservatives as to why they be not put forward a new leader to respond to the Budget , but over the past few week we seem to have see a fair amount of soft - ball from the act leader and deputy leader during our exchange . perhaps if they be not down in their own rabbit hole of oblivion , they would have present someone well to come to the Dispatch Box next week . the hon . Lady be also right in say that public service be in deep crisis after 14 year of failure and under - investment . my husband be an A & E doctor , so I know all too well that a crisis face our NHS this winter , as it have do every winter in recent year . the Health Secretary have take rapid action to end the doctor ' strike , which be cause so much additional stress to the NHS , he have take early step to ensure that there be extra appointment , and he be do a huge amount of work to bring down waiting list and to foresee some of the winter crisis . there be no doubt that the choice that will confront we in the Budget will be difficult , give our woeful economic inheritance , but there be hope ahead . we will get the economy grow again , we will get that investment into our public service , and we will fix the economy for the long term . many of my constituent in Battersea have write to I to express concern about Israel ' s ongoing siege in northern Gaza . the scale of the suffering and loss of life be enormous , and they be call on the Government to use all their lever to take action , include suspend any trade negotiation with Israel . we need an arm suspension , as well as a ban on all good that have be produce in settlement . can we have a Government statement on the tangible action that will be take to bring an end to the awful suffering ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , and she be absolutely right . the people of Gaza have endure 12 month of this conflict and be suffer from a catastrophic humanitarian crisis . over 100 hostage be still be hold by Hamas in truly awful condition , which be why this Government be absolutely clear that the fighting must stop now . we need an immediate ceasefire and the release of all the hostage . we need much more aid and support to get into Gaza , and we need long - term peace and stability . the Government be work at pace with our international partner to achieve those end , and there should be a statement on this matter in the come day . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . thank you , Mr Speaker . I be look forward to the magical word " business to be nominate by the Backbench Business Committee " in future week . I think there be one remain member of the Backbench Business Committee to be appoint , which prevent we from meet , so I urge the House to get on with that . may I suggest to the Leader of the House that it would be helpful if she announce the business to be hold in Westminster Hall at these session ? that would elevate the status of Westminster Hall debate . today we have see the Charity Commission publish a damn report on Mermaids , which conclude that the charity ' s poor governance have lead to mismanagement . that have serious implication follow the statutory inquiry into not only Mermaids , but other charity that look after vulnerable child . could we have a statement from the Government about what action they will take to ensure that vulnerable child be protect , and that charity do not mismanage the resource they be provide with ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I , too , look forward to be able to announce business decide by the Backbench Business Committee in future week . he might want to have a word with the shadow Leader of the House about the importance of provide time for general debate and Backbench Business debate , which he seem to think be not of interest to this House . the Government have provide time for some of those debate in the absence of a fully form Backbench Business Committee . the hon . Gentleman make a good point : there be some really good debate happen in Westminster Hall next week , include on online safety , the funding of child ' s hospice and the readiness of the NHS this winter — a number of issue that get raise in these session regularly . I hear what he say about the report into Mermaids , and I will make sure that if there be not a forthcoming statement , he get a response from the relevant Department . civil servant in the Department for Work and Pensions have receive what can only be describe as a derisory pay offer ; indeed , individual on the low grade be be discriminate against . can we have a debate in Government time to discuss the value of our civil servant and how we can address their wage , term and condition ? will she urge the relevant Ministers to get around the table with the Public and Commercial Services Union and try to resolve the dispute ? in my short time in government , I have see at first hand the exemplary work that our civil servant do every day . much of the time they do it quietly and secretly and do not get the credit , so it be great that my hon . friend have raise the matter on the Floor of the House . it be up to individual Departments to negotiate with their trade union on pay rise . I think the average award this year be 5 % , but my hon . friend be right that , work together with our partner in the trade union movement , we can end industrial action and support people get high wage and well working condition . I call the Father of the House . I have serve for several year on the programme board for restoration and renewal . the existential threat to this building be fire . I have raise on several occasion , as I know other have , the importance of instal a water mist system , instal more fire door and make sure that they all shut . this be such an important issue . I do not demand an immediate answer , but will the Leader of the House try to persuade the authority that rather than have endless debate on whether to decant , we need to protect this building with a water mist system ? the modern system be design so that they will not even damage painting , but they could save the building . all I can say to the right hon . Gentleman be lucky he for sit on the programme board for so long . in all seriousness , the safety of this building and of the people who work here be paramount for the House authority , for I and for the Speaker — you and I discuss it regularly , Mr Speaker . the right hon . Gentleman be correct that we must address these issue . I hope that he will continue to offer his advice and thought through the programme board in the come month ; I be not sure whether his party will nominate he to do so , but I hope it will . in my borough of Brent , the average private rent have increase by an eye - water 33 % to £ 2 , 121 a month . we have the high eviction rate in England and Wales . I be inundate , as I be sure many member be , with email about mould and disrepair . the Government ' s Renters ' Rights Bill be very welcome , but do the Leader of the House agree that we need to talk more about rent control ? my hon . friend raise an important matter for her constituency . she be right about the Renters ' Rights Bill , which have finally come forward and have its second reading under this government . it be much strong than the previous Bill . it will end no - fault eviction , will give renter and tenant more enhance right than they have have in a generation and will tackle issue with quality and mould . it will be an important Bill , and I be sure that my hon . friend will want to get stick into the debate as it make progress through the House . North Lincolnshire council have just publish proposal for a green growth zone , which will help to revitalise the local economy , provide engineering job and help young people to find a route into the renewable energy sector . as that appear to fit perfectly with the Government ' s growth agenda , will the Leader of the House arrange a statement , or preferably a debate in Government time , on green growth zone across the country ? I be pleased that the hon . Gentleman welcome the green growth zone in his constituency . he be right to point out that this Government ' s mission to be a clean energy superpower by 2030 be critical not just to reach climate target , but to create the job of the future , boost growth and give we the energy security that we so desperately need . I be sure that the topic he suggest would make for an important debate . perhaps it can be arrange through the Backbench Business Committee when it be up and run , which will hopefully happen imminently . if not , I will certainly look at his request . the UK be right to suspend direct arm export licence to Israel , the use of which risk breach international humanitarian law , yet it continue to deliver F - 35 component via the global supply chain . I have ask many time whether the Government will negotiate an end - use agreement with international partner to end the supply of F - 35s to Israel . in a write answer , I be tell : " the US Government manage the … Global Supply Chain . " sadly , that do not address the issue . can we have a statement from the Foreign Secretary on what discussion he have have with US counterpart on end the supply of F - 35s to Israel from the global supply chain ? this Government have take more action than many in suspend licence for arm export , because we be uphold international law and we be follow the legal advice that we have receive . that be why we have suspend approximately 30 licence to the Israel Defence Forces for arm that may be use in the current conflict and would be in breach of international law . I anticipate that the Foreign Secretary will come to the House , hopefully next week , with a further update on the middle east . in a righteous echo of St Matthew ' s Gospel , the elimination of vicious , violent criminal Chris Kaba remind we that those who live by weapon die by the same . far to yesterday ' s statement , there be real doubt about the fitness for purpose of the Crown Prosecution Service and the Independent Office for Police Conduct . can we have a debate on whether those organisation have become so infected by a kind of bourgeois , liberal , doubt - fuel virtue - signal that they have lose the will to defend the law - abide majority from a criminal , wicked minority ? the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that the Home Secretary come to the House yesterday and announce new step that we will take to protect our armed police officer . it be welcome that we have cross - party support for those measure , some of which will be include in forthcoming Home Department legislation . I be sure that we will have ample time to debate they far then . kinship care be vital . where kid can not be with their parent , keep they with family and friend , where possible , be often for the good . in Portsmouth , there be estimate to be 560 kinship carer like Carol , whom I meet recently in Paulsgrove . however , kinship carer receive less money per week than foster carer . will the Leader of the House allocate time for a debate on pay parity between foster carer and kinship carer ? my hon . friend raise an issue of great significance to many member of this House . the role that kinship carer play in our society be often underestimate and undervalue . we should all want to put that right . our manifesto make it clear that every child should have a love and secure home ; that be why we be determined to include kinship carer and other in the work that we be do to make sure that every child have a supportive home . among local farmer , report abound that the Government intend to cut the farming budget by more than £ 100 million . that be compound by the reality that the full farming recovery and internal drainage board fund have not be distribute , despite the fact that farmer have face appallingly wet weather over the past few month . will the Leader of the House consider commit one day of the Budget debate to food security and support our farmer ? we recently have a debate in Opposition time on farming , and the important issue that the hon . Lady describe get raise here regularly . this government support our farmer , support our food security and recognise the difficult period that farmer have face , especially with climate change . that be why we want to support our resilience and ensure we tackle issue around climate change . there will be ample time for these matter to be raise in the Budget debate , so I encourage the hon . Lady to put in to speak . the late ONS statistic on drug - relate death make horrifying reading . the rate of drug poisoning death in 2023 be double the 2012 rate . just under half of all drug poisoning death register in 2023 be confirm to have involve an opiate , while 1 , 118 death involve cocaine . that be over 30 % more than the previous year , and it represent the 12th consecutive annual rise . how can the Leader of the House facilitate our come together as a Parliament with the relevant Departments to produce a grow - up , evidence - base drug policy framework that be root in harm reduction , which be long overdue ? my hon . friend be right to point out the very serious and harmful effect of drug addiction and the number of death that it cause . many of we will have be affect by such tragedy for our constituent or for our own love one . the next Health question be in November , but the topic might also be suitable for consideration by the Backbench Business Committee or as the subject of an Adjournment debate . right hon . and hon . member across the House agree that it be right that the House consider the issue of assist dying . however , many of we be deeply tear on the issue and want to look in depth at the practical , moral , ethical and legal consideration . we do not feel that a private Member ' s Bill with only five hour of debate before we have to vote on Second Reading be the right vehicle . the Prime Minister commit to Government time on the issue , so I urge the Leader of the House to introduce legislation in due course , in Government time and with proper pre - legislative scrutiny and impact analysis , so that if we be to take such a grave decision , we will have all the resource for do so at our disposal . I recognise the difficult issue that the hon . Lady raise and which many hon . member be struggle with and consider . such matter as assist die be matter of conscience that have traditionally always be address through private member ' Bills , because the Government do not have a view . there will be a free vote for Government Members . there will be no Government time , but the Second reading will get the same time for debate as that of other Bills , and there will be lot of other opportunity for these matter to be debate . the hon . Lady could apply for other debate to take forward other issue , but it will be a matter for the House to decide , and we will take it forward on the basis of what the House decide . may I add my voice to that of my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) in respect of the ONS report release yesterday , which show that 5 , 448 death relate to drug poisoning have be register in England and Wales ? once again , the area of great deprivation have be disproportionately affect . the north - east region , include my constituency , be the hard hit . every one of those preventable tragedy have an impact on family , friend and colleague . as chair of the drug , alcohol and justice all - party parliamentary group , may I draw the House ' s attention to this public health crisis , on which I have table early - day motion 302 ? [ that this House note with alarm datum release by the Office for National Statistics on 23 October 2024 show that a record 5 , 448 death relate to drug poisoning be register in England and Wales in 2023 ; further note that the high death rate be again in area suffer great deprivation ; recognise that the influx of highly potent synthetic opioid such as Nitazenes risk a rapid rise in drug death ; and call on the Government to tackle the crisis by commit to long - term sustainable funding for drug treatment in the autumn budget and future spring spending review , continue to implement the recommendation of Dame Carol Black ' s independent review of drug , and accelerate the availability of naloxone , the lifesaving antidote to opioid overdose . ] will the Leader of the House urge Ministers to meet officer of the appg and treatment provider ? can we have a debate in Government time on this very important issue ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that health inequality be inextricably link with all other inequality . the trend be clear to see . yesterday ' s report on drug - relate death should serve as a wake - up call . it be absolutely devastating for any family for their love one to die in this way . as the subject have already be raise twice at business question today , I be sure that there would be a lot of interest if my hon . friend apply for a debate . will the Leader of the House join I in wish the very good of luck to my hamble constituent Jack Jarvis , an Army veteran , and his team — David Bruce and Nutty Edwards , both from the Royal Marines , and Adam Radcliffe — as they train in my constituency for a world record rowing attempt from New York to Southampton in aid of the veteran charity Head up ? can we have a statement from the Health Secretary or the Defence Secretary on mental health service ? will the Leader of the House wish my constituent the good of luck in their attempt to raise money ? I be delighted to wish the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent luck in their ambitious challenge to row across the Atlantic for such a worthy cause : head up , which I know well , do really important work . I be sure that Monday ' s general debate on veteran will be a good opportunity to raise the matter again . I welcome the introduction of a beef up Football Governance Bill . I thank the Leader of the House for all her hard work in opposition on beef up the proposal . I wish to pass on a message from the co - chairman of Rochdale Association Football Club , who say he would love to host the new football regulator as part of the redevelopment of Rochdale ' s ground . would it not be perfect for the north - west , the beat heart of our national game , to host the football regulator ? I be really pleased that the Football Governance Bill be be introduce in the House of Lords today . the Bill have be strengthen and will put fan at the heart of our football . the previous Government promise but fail to deliver it . we try . as the Opposition Chief Whip say from a sedentary position , he really do try to deliver the Bill . it be a cross - party effort , but the election be call a bit too early for that Bill , and perhaps for some of his colleague as well , so it do not come to pass . we have strengthen the Bill and put fan at the heart of football . my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) will be pleased to know that the Government be commit to host the football regulator in Greater Manchester , but he might want to fight with I and the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my right hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , about whether it be in Wigan , Manchester or Rochdale . I be not sure I will endorse fighting at the Dispatch Box . Glastonbury and Somerton be home to wonderful cider , with producer include Tricky Cider in Langport , Harry ' s cider in Long Sutton and Burrow Hill Cider near Kingsbury Episcopi . cider produce around £ 2 billion - worth of value for pub each year , but damage business rate be threaten the future of some pub . can we have a debate in Government time about the benefit of reform business rate on pub and hospitality ? I go to Glastonbury once a year and I occasionally have some of the local cider while I be there , so I can confirm the south - west of England produce some really good quality cider . it be one of our great export and one of our great drink in this country . I be sure that the hon . Lady will want to raise these issue during the Budget debate next week , and I look forward to she do that then . I often say that , in order to move forward , we need to look back . with that , will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Northwest Computer Museum in Leigh on showcase the history of computer and inspire the next generation , with education and new tech ? will she advise how good we acknowledge such organisation so that we continue to inspire the next generation of technological innovator ? local museum , such as the Northwest Computer Museum in my hon . friend ' s constituency , do brilliant work in showcase the good of this country ' s past , so that we can drive forward for the future . as a near neighbour of my hon . friend , I know the important role computer technology have play in the history of Leigh and Atherton , and Greater Manchester . recent event at the West Midlands Fire Authority , regard failure of governance , leadership , financial discrepancy and staff grievance , highlight deep - root and troubling problem , and I be afraid there be too many unanswered question . will the Government ensure that there will be an independent and transparent public inquiry , so that the West Midlands Fire Authority meet the obligation and standard that my resident , and people across the west midland , rightly expect and deserve ? I be sorry to hear of the poor finding about the fire service in the west midland . it be a much need service that local people should be able to rely on in time of need . I do not have detail about those finding , but I will ensure the relevant Minister get back to the right hon . Lady as soon as possible about what can be do . last week , I have the pleasure of welcome amazing student from Hayfield and Hill House school to Parliament on educational visit . in the same week , I be immensely proud that New College Doncaster , in Auckley , be award centre of excellence status by the Leadership Skills Foundation , and that Hayfield school be find to rank among the top 15 school in South Yorkshire . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Hayfield and New College on these bloom brilliant achievement , and will she encourage school across the country to take advantage of the excellent educational visit we offer here in Parliament ? I be delighted to join my hon . friend in congratulate Hayfield and New College on their bloom good achievement . he be right to highlight the fantastic educational programme offer by Parliament — it be really important that we educate the next generation on our democracy , their role as citizen and the important role that Parliament play . yesterday , Sky News report that the Government be set to receive a £ 1 . 5 billion windfall from Octopus Energy , just week after the Chancellor announce a £ 1 . 4 billion cut to winter fuel payment for million of pensioner , which the old People ' s Commissioner for Wales have say in the past week will cost thousand of life . the windfall provide an opportunity for the Government to reverse their policy and do the right thing to ensure that million of the most vulnerable in our society get the vital support that they need . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate in this House on the opportunity that the windfall give we ? let I gently say to the hon . Gentleman that he should not totally believe everything he hear on the news . however , he raise an important matter . People be face challenge this winter in pay rise energy cost , as they have do over many year . the very difficult decision by this Government to means - test the winter fuel payment be not one that we want to take , but we inherit a huge black hole , not just for this financial year but year after year . we have have to fix the foundation of the economy to put we back to economic stability . the truth of the matter be that when the economy crash , interest rate go sky high and cost and inflation get out of control , it be pensioner on fix income who pay the heavy price . that be why we have have to take the difficult decision that we have take . datum release by the National Records of Scotland this week show that male life expectancy in my constituency be the second low in the country , and Scotland continue to have low life expectancy than England and Wales . low life expectancy be strongly link to deprivation and 17 year of SNP failure . will the Leader of the House arrange an urgent debate on how this Government can work constructively with the Scottish Government to tackle the cause of deprivation and enhance the life chance of my constituent ? my hon . friend be right to raise the issue of male life expectancy in Scotland . the figure that he mention be worry . this Government be commit to work with the Scottish Government to tackle the challenge that the country be face . that be why we convene our first Council of the Regions and Nations in Glasgow a couple of week ago . he will be aware that Scotland question be next week , and he might want to raise it far then . you will know the importance of Uckfield hospital , Madam Deputy Speaker — a hospital that you previously represent and that your constituent enjoy use locally . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on community and district hospital ? the Health Secretary speak at the Dispatch Box about the importance of local access , but I hear that Uckfield hospital ' s elective surgery have be mothball for six month and that local staff be be send elsewhere . that fly in the face of the decision that this Government say integrate care board should be take . give the mention of Uckfield , I will be listen to the answer very closely . I will try to make sure it be a good one for you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . Lady be right to say that one of the key way in which we can deal with the crisis in our NHS — and it be a very serious crisis that we face — be to get more service into community so that people do not need to attend acute care at the wrong time , and to deliver that preventive community care model that the Health Secretary rightly point to . I do not want to make this party political , but the hospital building programme that we inherit be a work of fiction . many promise make by the previous Government do not have any budget line allocate to they at all . I know that these be issue of high priority for the forthcoming Budget , and I hope that she will get the answer that she want . box engage child and young people from deprived or marginalised background . matchroom ' s chairman Eddie Hearn rightly say that the thing about boxing be that everyone be welcome , and there be no barrier for entry . the Matchroom in the Community initiative , run by the passionate Alex Le Gu é vel , have impact more than 1 , 200 young people , collaborate with 22 sport provider and even save a local boxing gym . it be truly transform life . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the work of Matchroom in the Community , and permit a discussion in Government time on the positive impact of amateur local boxing club ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Matchroom in the Community in his constituency on its amazing work . I know from a similar club in my constituency , the Moss Side Fire Station boxing club , that important work be do to engage young people who would otherwise not be engage and might be cause problem elsewhere . that be why this Government be commit to support such youth service . so many of my resident in rural Beverley and Holderness have benefit from the simply brilliant £ 2 bus fare . could we have a debate or a statement from the Transport Secretary as soon as possible after the Budget on the future of the £ 2 bus fare , which have see so many more of my resident able to get to work , be a full part of the community and meet member of their family ? I be glad that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent be benefit from the £ 2 bus fare , which this Government have say will continue to the end of the year , for now — I be sure that further announcement will be make in the come day . we be also introduce the well bus Bill in this session to ensure that many more place can benefit from have a say and from bus franchising in their local area , which will keep fare low for long . I be sure that he will raise these issue in the Budget debate next week . last night I meet the University and College Union representative at the City of Wolverhampton college in my constituency . he raise concern about the wage of teacher in further education be significantly less than those receive by pre - 16 education teacher , and about the general under - investment in further education . these further education teacher provide vocational training for electrician , bricklayer , plumber , plasterer and IT technician , to name but a few . do the Leader of the House agree that the skill agenda and further education go hand in hand ? will she please meet I or grant a debate in the House to discuss fair funding for further education ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this issue , which be raise with I by the Manchester college on my recent visit there . the work do in our further education institution transform life . it be critical to the mission of this Government to grow the economy and provide opportunity for everybody , everywhere . that be why we be bring forward a number of piece of legislation to enhance further education . hopefully , there will be further announcement in due course . yesterday I be pleased to welcome the wonderful Dawn Dines and the Stamp out spike charity to Parliament to showcase their awareness campaign that launch next Monday . spike be one of the most evil crime . can the Leader of the House arrange for the Home Secretary to make a statement to update the House on the progress be make to implement the previous Government ' s anti - spike strategy ? what further step will this new Government take to stamp out this heinous crime ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the important work of the Stamp out spike campaign . he be right ; it be a blight in many of our town and city centre . work have improve over recent year to reduce the number of people use spike drug , but further work be need . I be sure that the Home Secretary will update the House in due course . next week , member of the European Pride Organisers Association will vote on the host of EuroPride 2027 . I be proud to back the only UK bid to host that festival , Pride in Gloucestershire , which would include an opening ceremony at Gloucester dock and a festival in Gloucester Park . will the Leader of the House join I in encourage member of EPOA to vote for Pride in Gloucestershire for EuroPride 2027 ? I wholeheartedly encourage all the association member to vote for Pride in Gloucestershire . I be sure that the event would really help to put Gloucester on the map , would bring a huge amount of interest and , and would support the local economy . as the MP for Manchester Pride , I know how important these event be , and I wish my hon . friend and his town all the good with that . in broad daylight , in a public place , my constituent be attack by a man who be well known to the police . when he realise that he be be videoe and the police be be call , he lash out and threaten to find my constituent , slit his throat and burn his house down . early police advice be that my constituent ' s name need never be disclose , but now Avon and Somerset police say that his full name will have to be disclose in court . he do not want to expose his family to the threat that be make . the case will collapse without the protection of anonymity for victim . can we have a debate on offer great public protection to victim in court , thereby bolster public confidence in police and our court system ? this sound like a horrific incident in the hon . member ' s constituency . I be really sorry to hear of it , and I hope that she will pass on our good to her constituent . these issue have be raise many time , and we have have many debate on they . the Government be commit to introduce a victim and sentence Bill in this Session , wherein the issue of anonymity for victim will be widely discuss . David Lowndes be a hero of our in Peterborough . for 51 year , he have chronicle life in our city , as the snapper for the local paper . just last weekend , in rain and shine , I meet David take photo at the Diwali festival and at the rededication of a war memorial . this year , his regular contract with the Peterborough Telegraph come to an end . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate David on his contribution to our city and journalism , and will she ensure that we have time in this House to debate the value of good local journalist ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate David Lowndes on a very long career in local photojournalism . what an important role he and other like he play in capture moment , and tell the story of our constituent and community , and the thing that we care most about . I be sure that a debate on the importance of local journalism would be very well attend , be he to apply for one . tomorrow be Northamptonshire Day , and I be very proud to represent the constituency of South Northamptonshire . I be delighted to hear the announcement of a new bus route from Ratley to Northampton via Syresham . do the Leader of the House agree that we need to protect and enhance our bus service , alongside the £ 2 bus fare , and will she agree to a debate in Government time on this important issue ? well , I do not know that it be Northamptonshire Day tomorrow . that be a good thing for I to add to the diary for future year . the hon . Lady raise the issue of reliable local bus route , which she will know have be decimate in recent year . the £ 2 bus fare have be an important marker in restore the service , but the Government be introduce a well bus Bill , which will give local area and local transport authority more power to franchise and create the local bus service that people rely on . I be very pleased to hear the Leader of the House announce a debate on veteran next week . will she join I in commend the work of the Macclesfield armed force and veteran breakfast club , which I have the pleasure of visit recently ? the club ' s effort to support veteran by provide access to key service and help to tackle social isolation in the community be invaluable . I be delighted to join my hon . friend in congratulate that breakfast club in his constituency on its important work . the Government be commit to support veteran . that be why I be really pleased to announce the debate on veteran next week . he will be pleased to know of the Government ' s commitment to the armed force commissioner Bill , which will be introduce imminently . in Huntingdon , we have a swathe of new energy infrastructure development . we already have the near - 2 , 000 - acre East Park Energy solar farm propose for near Great Staughton , and the Government recently force through plan for the Envar incinerator on the edge of St Ives , after an appeal from the developer . over the past week , many constituent have write to I express their concern about the propose Warboys incinerator at the Old Brickworks , just 4 mile from the Envar incinerator site . the parish of Warboys and Pidley - cum - Fenton be place between those site . will the Leader of the House make time in the parliamentary schedule for this House to discuss the impact that new energy infrastructure be have on the rural community that it be be impose on ? I thank the hon . member for raise that issue , which be obviously important to his constituent . the Government make no apology for take quick action to ensure that we have energy security , and the energy supply of the future . our commitment to become a clean energy superpower by 2030 bring with it some difficult decision and challenge . we be mindful of community concern when it come to such decision , but we will not let it stand in the way of ensure energy security , low bill and an energy supply for the people of this country . across the country , retailer on our high street be increasingly worried about rise retail crime and antisocial behaviour . I recently meet business owner in Bathgate to discuss their concern and raise awareness of the Protection of Workers ( Retail and age - restrict Goods and Services ) ( Scotland ) Act 2021 , which be introduce after a long campaign by the Co - operative movement . will the Leader of the House make a statement on when we can expect a Bill to make the assault of shop worker a specific offence in England and Wales ? shoplifting continue to increase at unacceptable level , and be cause huge issue for local shop worker and those run retail outlet . my hon . friend be right to raise the issue . she will know that , under the previous Government , there be effectively immunity for those shoplifting , because there be no prosecution for theft under £ 200 . the Government be commit to bring in a new offence of assault a retail worker . that will be in the forthcoming policing and crime Bill , which I hope will be introduce in the come week or month . Colin and Coryne Hall , resident in the Bordon part of my constituency , be be evict by the Ministry of Defence from their property , along with a number of other resident in the area . could we have a statement from the Secretary of State for Defence about the MOD ' s treatment of its non - military tenant ? this be just an example of how the Defence Infrastructure Organisation be not prioritise Bordon . can we have a debate in Government time on how the DIO handle its responsibility to local community ? I thank the hon . member for raise what be obviously an important issue for his constituent Colin and Coryne Hall , give their circumstance . it be not an issue that I be familiar with . he will know that I recently announce that there will be a debate on the Floor of the House on Monday on support veteran , at which Defence Ministers will be present . he may want to raise the issue there , but I shall certainly raise it with Ministers anyway . rise — order . around a dozen member wish to speak , and we have only a few minute leave , so let we try to be as short and sharp as we can . last week , I join Rabbi Neil Janes and Father Stuart Owen on a walk through my constituency to mark the jewish festival of Sukkot , and to thank and raise fund for local organisation that support people in need of all faith . will the Leader of the House grant a debate on how we can support and encourage interfaith understanding , dialogue and action , of which this walk be a really powerful example ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that question , and pass on my thank to Rabbi Janes and those who have come together in her constituency to deal with these issue . she be right to call for interfaith community to come together . I be sure that she will continue to do that in her constituency . when the Cineworld in Yate open in 2015 , it be a big day for the town and come as a result of year of campaigning by former MP Steve Webb . sadly , the cinema have recently close its door . it be one of the many cinema across the country unable to keep up with rise cost . a key burden face those business be the business rate system , which leave they pay more than they can afford . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on the need to reform business rate , and on how a new system could benefit local cinema ? I be sorry to hear about the closure of Cineworld in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . we will have several day of debate on the Budget , start next week , and I be very confident that business rate will be high on the agenda in those debate , as they always be . my constituent David Gold have be in touch to say that a year ago he really struggle to get a GP appointment . he go directly to the hospital to seek advice and eventually get an appointment , and be subsequently diagnose with stage 3 bowel cancer . we know how important it be that those with cancer get an early diagnosis . an employee from the GP practice in question tell I that in their 35 year of service , they have never see primary healthcare in such a sorry state . will the Leader of the House grant an urgent debate in Government time on get gps the resource they need to offer appointment quickly ? I be really sorry to hear about my hon . friend ' s constituent . the Government be commit to introduce an extra 40 , 000 appointment per week by the end of this Parliament . that work , lead by the Health Secretary , be already under way , and I hope it mean that such a situation will not happen again . it be common for we to believe that freedom of religion or belief violation do not occur in the west , but they do . recently , the Breccia di Roma , an evangelical church in Italy , have be embroil in a legal battle regard its place of worship . the italian tax agency deny the church tax exemption grant to other religious institution on the ground that its place of worship do not exhibit sufficiently religious architectural feature . despite favourable ruling from low court , the italian supreme court rule against the church , claim that it be liable for commercial taxis . the church , represent by Alliance Defending Freedom International , have now take its case to the European Court of Human Rights . this case be discriminatory , so will the Leader of the House join I in raise concern about that violation of freedom of religion or belief , and will she ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to raise the matter with its counterpart in Italy ? yet again , the hon . Gentleman raise the important matter of freedom of religion or belief in business question . I will certainly get he answer to his question . he have ask I previously about the case of Jimmy Lai , so he might like to know that the Foreign Secretary raise that on his trip to China last week . Banbury FM provide news , music and information . its service be in many way much well than those provide by large FM licence - holder . unfortunately , Ofcom ' s effective veto on station obtain FM licence mean that Banbury FM and many other independent local radio station be accessible only via digital platform . that deprive part of society — especially the elderly and the isolated — access to their service . will the Leader of the House commit to a debate on improve access to FM frequency for independent radio station , and on the potential for Ofcom to provide on - demand licence ? local radio station play a really important role in their community . I be sure that if my hon . friend be to apply for an Adjournment debate on the subject , it would be very well attend . the SNP Government have botch their attempt to deliver a national care service in Scotland . key stakeholder , trade union and care organisation have raise significant concern , and local government have withdraw support . will my right hon . friend make time in the near future for a statement outline the preliminary discussion that the Department of Health and Social Care have have with stakeholder , so that the House can be assure that the national care service in England will move forward with the support of staff , service user and other relevant body , and not make the same shambolic mistake that have be make in Scotland ? social care be a devolved matter . as my hon . friend rightly say , social care in Scotland be at break point because the SNP plan have fail and the national care service there be in name only . he may wish to raise that matter in the forthcoming Health and Social Care or Scotland question . despite there be a healthy number of large supermarket and other petrol supplier in the city of Dunfermline , research by a group of my constituent have find that petrol there be consistently up to 5p per litre more expensive than it be when sell by the same supplier less than 10 mile away . that harm small business and individual alike . can the Leader of the House suggest a way to examine that cluster of price in order to ensure that business and individual be treat fairly ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the Competition and Markets Authority have find that competition between fuel retailer have weaken , which , as he highlight , have have a detrimental effect on constituent such as his . I think he would get strong backing for a Backbench Business or Westminster Hall debate on that important matter . I call Andy MacNae . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . after last week , I shall heed your request for speed . Rossendale be the only local authority area in the north without any sort of rail station or commuter link , as I may have mention in the House before . that cut my constituent off from opportunity and constrain the growth of east Lancashire , despite year of hard work by the borough council — with the support of the county council and myself — on its excellent and deliverable plan for a city valley rail link . will the Leader of the House agree to grant a debate on the delivery of that link in the context of a northern rail strategy ? as the MP for a nearby constituency , I know all too well how poorly serve Rossendale and Rawtenstall be by transport link . I support my hon . friend ' s call to get well transport link to his constituency . the Government be currently review all that , but we be absolutely committed to support well northern rail link . woman affect by the change to the state pension age continue to wait for clarity on the compensation recommend by the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman in its March report . I appreciate the state that the public finance have be leave in , and I acknowledge the complexity of this issue , but many of my constituent be concerned that justice be be far delay . may we have a statement from the Secretary of State for work and Pensions on the Government ' s plan to respond to the report , and will mps be give the opportunity to debate its finding and the next step ? as my hon . friend know , the ombudsman report be publish in March . it be a serious report that require serious consideration by the government — I know that it be frustrating , but minister be actively do that as we speak . of course , once they be ready to do so , they will come to the House with a full response . critical mineral be essential to our transition away from fossil fuel . virtually 100 % of the UK ' s critical mineral need to be import from place as far fling as South America , the Congo , China and Australasia . despite that , there be vast deposit of tin , lithium , manganese and tungsten here in the UK . that be a truly damn indictment of the " race to the bottom " economic of the conservative party . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on domestic critical mineral production ? my hon . friend raise such an important issue . critical mineral be vital to our future technology and economy . they be require for phone , wind turbine , car , fighter jet — you name it . I think that if he be to apply for an Adjournment debate , he would get one . I call James Asser , whose patience have be note . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the East London gymnastic centre in Beckton be a grassroots facility that be well use by local people and community sport group , but it also contain national facility use by Team GB and some of our Olympians . the facility have now be sell by its owner to a housing developer , and face imminent closure despite a vigorous local campaign , which will have an impact on our national training facility . will the Leader of the House consider provide an opportunity to debate grassroots sport and what measure we can put in place to protect such facility in future ? my hon . friend be last but by no mean least . that development in his constituency be worry , and I thank he for raise it . our Team GB gymnast and other gymnast be the pride of our country and have always do very well , especially in recent Olympics and other game . I will certainly raise that important matter with the relevant Minister and ensure that my hon . friend get a reply . with over 50 contribution , many constituency have be well represent . black History Month I beg to move , that this House have consider Black History Month . I start by wish Baroness Doreen Lawrence a very happy birthday — she be bright beacon for we all . it be a great pleasure to open the debate to mark Black History Month . I have lead debate on the subject many time since 2020 , but this be my first time from the Government side of the House , and as the first ever woman Minister of ghanaian descent at the Dispatch Box . for some of we , every month be Black History Month . many member can not dis - entangle our own narrative , family tree and story from the broad celebration of black history . it be not the stuff of dry history book ; it be about vibrant family story tell around kitchen table , and live experience share by our mum , dad , auntie , uncle , grandparent and great - grandparent . I know from our previous debate that we will be hear some of those vivid story this afternoon . why do we celebrate Black History Month ? we do so because black history be british history ; because the life of black Britons be the building block of our nation , from the roman occupation to the Windrush generation ; because history be never static , but a story constantly be tell and re - tell over again ; and because the voice of black Britons have so often be marginalise and dismiss , ignore and overlook . the racism and bias that our forebear face — within the factory , the foundry , the armed service , the university and the national health service , on the street , and even in our home — be make bad by historian brush it under the carpet . this country and this House can not overlook our complex and painful history of empire and slavery . a key theme this year be " reclaim the narrative , " and I pay tribute to all the family , historian , scholar , teacher and storyteller who keep the narrative alive . we have a duty of care to our ancestor ; a debt of honour to the countless million who build our economy , shape our society and forge the nation . I congratulate my hon . friend on lead this important debate in Government time . the Black Cultural Archives , which I be hugely proud to say be base in my constituency on Windrush Square , be the only national organisation dedicate to the preservation and interpretation of black history in the United Kingdom . it do not currently have recognition as a national organisation . will the Minister work with I and the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport to ensure that the Black Cultural Archives have that status and recognition , as well as sustainable funding , give the vital role it play ? I thank my hon . friend for that suggestion ; she have do a lot of work in that area . I know the Black Cultural Archives really well , have visit it on many occasion over the year . I , too , be concern , and I will be happy to work with Ministers , alongside my hon . friend , to look at ensure that its legacy continue . it be a special honour to join Mr Speaker last week in Speaker ' s House to mark Black History Month — it be truly a hot ticket . it be a pleasure to hear my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) speak on that occasion . she remind we of the terrible hate that black Britons face in the 1950 and 1960 , and how working - class community come together to protect one another when the fascist come to town . jewish , irish and asian community , as well as the settle white community , work alongside the african - caribbean community . I commend the Minister for lead the debate , and I think it be only fair also to commend the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for initiate it . do the Minister agree that the celebration of culture and heritage , as well as their accomplishment , be something that benefit everyone in our community ? the strength of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland have its foundation on our ability to be british and yet to be so much more . I completely agree . I mention how in the past different community have come together alongside the african - caribbean community , for example to fight the blackshirt , the National Front , and the British National party . these be the shoulder on which many of we stand . alongside Bernie Grant and my fellow ghanaian — and great friend — Lord Paul Boateng , they light the path for so many of we to walk down . I do not want the House to think I be only go to mention those of ghanaian descent , even though we make the good jollof rice — do not let my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) tell you any different . but there be one more ghanaian person I must mention , as I always do in this month : Akyaaba Addai - Sebo , the co - ordinator of special project for the Greater London Council , who organise the first recognition of this month in 1987 . in the 1970 , he have see the Americans celebrate black history and believe that Britain should do something similar . first , I congratulate my hon . friend on her speech . she be do a fantastic job and she look amazing . I be not get into the jollof rice argument , because I be jamaican . she mention one of the founder of Black History Month , who be a constituent of mine . do she agree that it be no coincidence that in 1987 , when Black History Month be first launch by the GLC , this place also make history with the election of the first three black mps : the Mother of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , Lord Boateng , and the late and very great Bernie Grant ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that , and I be glad she take the cautious path by not say that ghanaian jollof rice be not the good — she know it be . I echo her point and I will be pay tribute to those mp later in my speech . the story we will hear this afternoon be our story . we have come a long way since the 1980 , when we first celebrate Black History Month . we celebrate the trail - blazer today . I have mention the first black Mother of the House , the first black Minister and Cabinet Minister , Paul Boateng , and Baroness Lawrence . I must also mention Baroness Amos in the other place , who become the first black woman to serve in Cabinet . she be from my area , the borough of Bexley , and inspire I every day . of course , no one political party have a monopoly on trailblazer ; I know that Opposition Members will want to mention the black trailblazer from their own party and political tradition . since the general election in July , we can celebrate the most diverse Parliament in our history , make this House look and sound far close to the diverse community we represent . such representation matter . if the nation ' s child look at our Parliament and do not see woman and man who look and sound like they , then they will assume that Parliament be not of they or for they ; they will assume that the ruler be one thing and the rule something else . I do not need to tell the House how damaging that be to democracy , or how populist thrive and democracy die . it be not about tick box ; it be about ballot box . I say we have come a long way — and we have — but the path of progress do not run straight and true . progress can be reverse and set back . social medium provide a new platform for old hatred . the scourge of racism be give new life through social medium — each one of we face it every day online . in our community too , racism be real , and the struggle against it be real . it be not just overt racism ; it be also the damaging effect of racism in our institution . it be the routine micro - aggression that black mps and black staff face every day , and the hateful language in part of our medium . it be when the successful black business executive be mistaken for the clean , when the qualified jobseeker be block because of their surname , or when the political candidate be tell , " this seat be not for the like of you . " that be why this Government be commit to break down barrier to opportunity as part of our mission - lead Government , and why we strive for opportunity for all in education , work , public life , and in every community and part of the UK . I believe that the Government ' s wide - range legislative programme will start to address many of the injustice that scar our society . the Bill on equality in race and disability will introduce mandatory ethnicity and disability pay gap reporting for employer with over 250 employee . we will reform the Mental Health Act 1983 . currently , black people be 3 . 5 time more likely than white people to be detain under that Act , and over seven time more likely to be subject to a community treatment order . we must urgently address this issue . we will also tackle the abhorrent maternal health gap . in England , the risk of maternal death be nearly three time as high for black woman and twice as high for asian woman as it be for white woman . it be a grave injustice that there be such stark inequality in maternal outcome , and this Government be commit to close the maternal mortality gap . in so many other area , the Government be make change that will improve life . early in my speech , I mention the Windrush generation ; we have be call for justice for those treat so terribly by previous government , include the full implementation of the recommendation of the Wendy Williams review . I have call for that in the House multiple time , and I be pleased that today , my right hon . friend the Home Secretary have announce that the Government will fulfil their manifesto commitment in full . we will appoint a Windrush commissioner to oversee compensation and act as a trusted voice ; we will establish a new Windrush unit in the Home Office to drive thing forward ; and we be inject £ 1 . 5 million into a programme of grant funding for organisation to support people ' s application for compensation . this will speed up and clarify process that have be shamefully slow and difficult . we will continue to listen to the voice of Windrush , honour their contribution to this country and seek redress for the scandal that have engulf so many of they . at last — after too long — the Windrush generation will see some measure of justice . I be proud to open this debate , but I be not satisfied with where we be . we have a long way to go . yes , I be interested in black history , but I be also interested in black future . that be why we need last change , real reform , solid progress , and a never - end quest for justice . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I , too , wish Baroness Lawrence a very happy birthday . I congratulate the Minister on such a positive opening speech . how wonderful it be to have this discussion in the main Chamber ! I have be work with the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) on the all - party woman in Parliament event , and I be delighted that joint working between Government Front Benchers and Back Benchers have bring this debate to the Chamber today . I be particularly pleased to see the number of people who be keen to be here on a Thursday — that be fantastic , and I look forward to the contribution from across the House . the theme of this year ' s Black History Month be reclaim narrative , and it be vital for every member of society to recognise the achievement of black Britons and the contribution they have make to our country and to the world . all of we as mp have amazing constituent and friend who educate and inspire we , and that will be highlight in today ' s debate . it take I back to my good friend from school , Genevieve . she educate I about what it be like to flee her country , Uganda , with just a passport , and what it have mean to she and her future to go through such a harrowing time with her family . we need only look across the field of sport , entertainment , culture and politic to see how much of a contribution black Britons be make . we see that most clearly in today ' s celebration . I agree with the Minister that look forward to the future be vital , but Black History Month take we back to the 1980 , which be when my friend Genevieve and I meet . it be establish in 1987 , and not only have it grow as a movement ; it have lead to real debate and reflection . I be sure that this House will do it justice this afternoon , and that we will note just how far the UK have come and how different it be as a country from when Black History Month be establish . we have hear from the Minister about the historic moment when three black mp be elect to this House in the 1987 general election , and the difference that make . the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) be elect in that year , and we celebrate she be the Mother of this House . as for my party , the old political party in the western world , the fact that we could be lead by a black woman be a testament to the arc of change that we have see — that be no doubt in part due to the trailblazing of the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington — and , indeed , she would be our fourth female leader , although there be another one available . [ laughter . ] you know what I mean . other member of the black or mixed - race heritage community have join our Benches , and there be some we dearly miss . Bim Afolami , in particular , make an important contribution in this place for our party . as the Minister say , look at the Chamber today and at Prime Minister ' s question , we can see the breadth of representation . I think it be fair to say , despite where we be as a party , that there be more to do , and we be all keen to inspire that work and to work together on it . turn to the contribution in the field of sport , people can just watch any football match to see black Britons make their mark . whether it be Sterling , Saka or Rashford , these be household name in the english team , although I will show my age by admit that my favourite be Ian Wright . as the hon . Lady be talk about sport and football , it be only right that I pay tribute to my brother , who be a premier league footballer — Bobby Reid - De Cordova . he be do an incredible job , and I be incredibly proud of he because of what he demonstrate , not just on the pitch but in the community within which he have serve . I thank the hon . Lady for that contribution — I have a brother myself of whom I be extremely proud , so I get that . there be something slightly less competitive in that relationship sometimes . I pay tribute to he and his work , and , above all , his skill . if we be talk about footballer , can we remember people such as Alex Scott , who be a trailblazer for the woman ' s game , as well as those from the man ' s game ? I will be come on to that in my remark . as a former Sports Minister , I be absolutely focused on highlight the woman ' s game and , above all , make sure that sport be not niche when it come to report on woman and their achievement — that it be literally a fair and level playing field — so I agree with the hon . Gentleman . of course , it be with a note of sadness that we need to remember one pioneer of black sport , Alford Gardner , who die early this month . prior to his death , he be one of only two survive Windrush passenger , and he be recognise at the Pride of Britain award for his work establish the first caribbean cricket club in the UK . as Sports Minister , I be keen to encourage representation and further opportunity , particularly for football manager , and to work with the beautiful game on those thing — if you can not see it , can you believe that you can get there ? I still think there be more to do . we rightly herald the voyage of the Empire Windrush as the start of the story when it come to truly understand black history in the UK . I thank the Minister for her update to the House on what be be do to support the community . there be one cohort that it would be nice to hear mention by the Front Benchers : the black warrior who come to this country to fight in two world war , and particularly to fight the Nazis in the second world war . I commend to people on both side of the House with an interest in this subject the book " the Eighth Passenger " by the late Miles Tripp , which prominently feature Flight Sergeant Harry McCalla . he be the rear gunner in his lancaster and fly dozen of perilous mission ; he survive , and member can read about what happen after the war . we need to salute , in both sense of the word , those people who come to fight the Nazis . hear , hear ! a little far on in my speech , I will mention some of that , but I have certainly learn even more from my right hon . friend . the hon . Lady mention the importance of the Windrush generation and the Windrush story to the start of the story of Black History Month . my constituency be one of the most diverse in the country , and long have be . in the 1920 , we have the big black population in London , but our black history prior to the second world war be often forget . do she agree that we need to do more to celebrate , and to remind people and teach they about , that long history ? I thank the hon . Gentleman , and I think that point make the importance of today ' s debate apparent . we on the Opposition Benches and all mps in this House be so keen to champion our constituent and what we know of they , and he have give we another a great example . to turn to our NHS , 7 . 4 % of people employ in the NHS be black people . indeed , when face with acute staff shortage , the Government call on caribbean woman to fill those gap : 5 , 000 be work on hospital ward within 10 year , and by the 1970s two third of student nurse and midwife originate from the Caribbean . the Minister rightly talk about health disparity , and the massive focus we must have on they , whether in maternal health — that be raise at the birth trauma event just this week — the menopause , or in understand intersectionality . Professor Laura Serrant use she very moving poem " you call … and we come " to point out what we owe to the generation of black people who come from overseas and have give and continue to give the good of their life — and , indeed , their food and culture — to this country , as well as have really add to our labour market . we know that the experience of black people in this country have be long , and at time complex and difficult , but we know that the more we learn and the more we work together , the more that be change . in fact , the first black MP be believe to have be elect back in 1767 . many will know the story of Mary Seacole and her remarkable role in the crimean war , which we now understand and celebrate much more . such an awareness , as have be raise already in the Chamber today , be key . as my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) say , in our dark hour we have turn to our friend to support we , and it be estimate that 16 , 000 caribbean man step up and fight for Britain during the second world war , while half a million Africans serve in both combative and non - combative role during the same conflict . one long overdue narrative we must talk about be that 800 million people from the Commonwealth stand together against the great evil of racism that have ever be know , and the Minister allude to that in her speech . as we know , contemporary attitude have sometimes airbrush many black british story out of our history and our understanding , so challenging and understand such narrative continue , sadly , to be very important . while we accept and celebrate the progress , it be very important that we continue to challenge any complacency , and while we reflect on the change we have see , we need to do more . in fact , appal racism and abuse be display in the 2021 Euro final — not that long ago — and I applaud and thank the charity and group that continue to stand up against this abhorrent abuse . there be an opportunity with the Online Safety Act 2023 to continue to work with social medium company to crack down on racist abuse and make it clear that it have no place in this country . to conclude , as a Minister in the Government Equalities Office , the Department for Work and Pensions and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , I focus on young people and social mobility , argue that their postcode , what they look like , their background and their network should never hold they back . we should all continue to work incredibly hard to tackle racist abuse and make sure that we fix the long - stand racial disparity , so the Minister have my support and my party ' s support on this . I be particularly proud that , when we leave office , we have deliver 62 of the 74 action in the british action plan on racial disparity . however , as the Minister say , there be more to do . I look forward to the contribution of member in this important debate , as we celebrate Black History Month in this House and , importantly , look to the future . it be a pleasure and a privilege to take part in this debate on the Floor of the House in Government time for the first time ever . I thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) for her excellent speech . it be a pleasure to co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on woman in Parliament . talk about footballer , Raheem Sterling be from Brent — a proud Brent boy — as be Rachel Yankey , and they do amazing thing in the community . I thank the Minister for her move and excellent speech . I be sure the Nigerians would disagree about jollof rice , but I will try not to get too involved in that . as she say , she be the first woman of ghanaian decent at the Dispatch Box . I remember that when I stand at that Dispatch Box in 2009 , and I be the first black woman ever to stand there as a Government Minister , it be so moving and I almost feel as though I have the weight of history on my shoulder . I congratulate she on that , and also on the Windrush announcement . that be a phenomenal announcement , and a lot of people today will be very grateful for it . I would like to thank Wendy Williams , Jacqueline McKenzie , Martin Forde and Patrick Vernon for all the work they have do on Windrush . reclaim narrative be important for this Black History Month , because it be not about explain black history , but about reclaim some of the narrative out there change some of the assumption . I always remember a teacher say to I at school , " Don ' t assume , because when you ' assume ' you make an ' ass ' out of ' u ' and ' I ' . " when I meet Pam , whose family own a cotton farm in Mississippi for over 100 year , I be expect all these story about uprising and everything , and she just tell I about the entrepreneurship , the sustainability and the fair pay . I be so enthralled by her story — mytunika . com — that I purchase the shirt I be wear today , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) for help I iron it . the thing about business be that it be easy for someone to make huge profit if they do not have to pay people , if they do not have to provide accommodation , if they do not have to treat they fairly and if they can treat they as if they be nobody . no one with a conscience or any compassion would say that be a good business model , but six year ago , in 2018 , I receive a message , as do everybody else in the country , to inform I that we have finish pay the reparation owe . the message say : " the amount of money borrow for the Slavery Abolition Act be so large that it wasn ' t pay off until 2015 . which mean that live british citizen help pay to end the slave trade . " I be absolutely shocked when I receive that message . I think , " I win ' t consent to my taxpayer ' s money pay slave owner compensation . " the british Government pay £ 20 million , which be 5 % of gdp at the time , and that be now the equivalent of about £ 100 billion . this money be pay to compensate slave owner for lost capital associate with free slave — 40 % of the UK ' s budget . so there be a precedent for pay reparation for slavery ; it have just be pay to the wrong people . I congratulate my hon . friend on her speech , and I must say her shirt be lovely . she be make a vital point about reparation , and do she agree that while it be important that we look to the future , we must also have that discussion about reparation , because both she and I be descendant of those who be enslave ? I thank my hon . friend . I understand that the Prime Minister have say we have to look to the future and that he be deal with 14 year of corruption and mismanagement by the Conservative Government , but we do have to consider reparation because it be the right thing to do . this question make I wonder whether it would ever be conceivable that this decision would be make today . would we pay trafficker for their loss of trade ? would we pay pimp for their loss of trade ? it be a ridiculous assertion . so I think to myself , who make this decision and how be it make ? obviously , it be make in Parliament . back then there be no woman , no black people , no people of colour ; it be just white man and they make that decision . and we only finish pay nine year ago , so it be still very current . while the british Government have not disclose a complete list of the recipient individual and firm of bond relate to compensation for slave , researcher at University College London have compile a list of over 46 , 000 current individual and group who have receive Government payout relate to the abolition of slavery . many powerful british family , include current business and political elite in the United Kingdom , be among the recipient uncover by the UCL team . so when we hear the argument that to make our money — to make our million — we just have to work hard and pull ourselves up by our boot strap , that be not quite the full story . that be why the narrative need to be reset , and structure create in order to uphold a white supremacist view need to be revisit and restructure . I thank my hon . friend for her fantastic speech . as she will know , a number of people be call for reparation , include member of this House ; there be an all - party parliamentary group for afrikan reparation of which she be a member . do she agree there should be a discussion about the different way in which people want reparation to be pay ? People have hear about large sum of money and have get scared , but they have not think about all the different way , such as through environmental or educational reparation , that we could go about repair the sheer imbalance of equality that we as a country create by take part in the enslavement and trafficking and colonialisation of other country . there be many different way in which we could support those we so seriously disadvantage , and do my hon . friend agree that everybody should come along to the APPG conference this Sunday , 27 October , if they would like to hear more ? I thank my hon . friend for her excellent plug for the conference on Sunday , and I will be there . the thing about reset the narrative be that we have to learn . we have to educate ourselves , and there be nothing wrong in that . there be also nothing wrong in change our mind . there be nothing wrong in have one position and then learn something new and understanding — for instance that reparation be not just about money — and then change our mind . Slavery destroy the african economy . it strip Africa of its people and also strip Africa of its rich . there be a narrative that Africa be poor because of corruption and we must help these poor african child . I would like to change that narrative and say that Africa be rich . Africa be rich in natural resource range from arable land , water , oil and natural gas to mineral , forest and wildlife . the continent hold a huge proportion of the world ' s natural resource , both renewable and non - renewable . Africa be home to some 30 % of the world ' s mineral reserve , 8 % of the world ' s natural gas , 12 % of the world ' s natural oil reserve , 40 % of the world ' s gold and up to 90 % of its chromium and platinum . it have the large reserve of cobalt , diamond , platinum and uranium and 10 % of the planet ' s internal renewable fresh water source . so I want everybody to consider the narrative that Africa be rich and it have have its wealth steal . Africa be also a net creditor to the rest of the world . as my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) say , there be lot of big number be mention such as that $ 777 trillion need to pay in reparation . most recently Dr Michael Banner , dean of Trinity College Cambridge , claim Britain owe £ 205 billion in reparation . Patrick Robinson , lead judge at the International Court of Justice , declare that the UK should pay $ 24 trillion for its involvement in slavery . there be a lot of figure and that be a lot of money , but at the end of the day some thing will be easy to compensate . it be not just about money . we could give back artefact and the body of freedom fighter and steal jewel and precious metal wherever they may be . we could make good the land and sea ruin by oil spill , correct the education of history , compensate land and home owner , and cancel the debt . there be lot of thing that can be do to make sure we have reparation . I realise that it be complicated to calculate what be owe , but we must not forget that in order for slavery to continue people put a number on other people ' s life ; people be sell for money . if it could be do then , it can be do now . the first homo sapiens on earth — modern human — be think to have evolve in Africa around 300 , 000 year ago , and it be fascinating reading about the different continent and about Africa and the middle stone age and how they develop different tool and painting and where they come from . it lead I to write a poem about be of the first one that seem to have upset quite a few racist , and I say to they that they should not scroll through my social medium feed unless they want to get upset . this be my poem . so you want to see I broken Head bow and tear in my eye more fool you you didn ' t realise my strength be power by your lie . you be the wrong one the violent one the weird one whereas I , I be the choose one of the first one you see this skin I be in this beautiful mahogany brown this skin you don ' t like I believe so why try so hard to achieve by burn yourself by the sun for I there be no need because I be the choose one I be of the first one I know I be black and beautiful an african freedom fighter my skin be my protection and you my friend don ' t matter . because I be the choose one as I be of the first one so you want to see I broken Head bow and tear in my eye more fool you , you haven ' t realise my strength be despite your lie . no one should shy away from the truth even if it hurt and be painful . Slavery have always be wrong , and that be why we have a modern slavery Bill which have start in the other place . we should remind ourselves that know the truth be not the same as hate . this be not hate speech ; this be love speech . this be the way we right the wrong of the past and look forward to the future . I call Liberal Democrats spokesperson Josh Babarinde . I thank the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for that amazing tribute and that awesome poem , and I also thank those on the front Benches who have speak so far to celebrate Black History Month . I join in pay birthday wish to Baroness Doreen Lawrence , and as far as the jollof question be concern , as a Nigerian I will come to that later . as the first black person ever elect as a Liberal Democrat MP — [ interruption . ] about time indeed ; well late than never . it be an honour to stand here to mark Black History Month . the theme of Black History Month this year be reclaim narrative and I can not think of a more pertinent time in recent history to be pursue that endeavour . People may look at what happen after Saka miss that goal at the Euros , after the riot this year and after the spike in hate crime , and feel that our country be not what it once be . they may feel that our country be unwelcoming or be close , but I say to they that Britain be far more than the divisive minority find in some corner of this country and indeed in some corner of this House . at our core , we be an open , tolerant and multicultural country that be enrich , not compromise , by diversity . Eastbourne ' s black community be a shine example of that diversity and contribution . I will highlight some of their contribution today , not least because I be bear and breed in the wonderful town that I now represent . I will not describe my family , because that be cheat , but I will talk about someone who certainly feel like family : Jenny Williams . Jenny be the first black woman ever elect to Eastbourne borough council since it be establish in 1859 . Jenny ' s career work to diversify the art , whether through the Arts Council , her organisation take the Space or many vehicle in between , have help to change the landscape in the art at a grassroots and national level , and our town and country be much rich for it . I be also proud to pay tribute to Solomon Berhane , a fellow Eastbournian and the inspirational headteacher at St Catherine ' s college . he have be an Eastbourne lad since come to the UK age 4 . like I , he be a Hampden Park boy , have attend local school , and he now lead one . he be a role model not just for black child in Eastbourne , but for all child in my town . Marie Baker run EurAfro World , the specialist salon to which people travel from far and wide to experience the magic of Marie ' s hairdressing . she run far more than a salon , though . it have essentially become a community — a space that be ooze with heart , laugh and the juiciest of conversation . if people want to go anywhere for gossip in Eastbourne , they need to go to EurAfro World . we be also home to the amazing Dante Hutchinson , who be a pro scooter rider . he be a four - time UK scooter champion and a one - time world champion , and he have inspire a generation of young people into the sport . he do Eastbourne so proud . the last Eastbournian I will pay tribute to today be Mebrak , whose tenacious work for Eastbourne through Diversity Resource International have support black community in my town and beyond — include , I think , in your constituency , Madam Deputy Speaker — through research , translation and support for black carer . I thank Mebrak today , too . from my seaside home to this riverside House , there be much to celebrate . this be the most ethnically diverse Parliament ever . I will take this opportunity to pay tribute to the journey that those folk of colour , particularly those black folk , have make in come to this House . I recognise those who have seek to lift those black voice and bring they to this House , too . I be think of the like of Operation Black Vote , the non - profit organisation that support ethnic minority to engage with and seek role in civic life . OBV ' s magistrate programme have see dozen of black people contribute their experience and expertise to our criminal justice system , enhance our court system ' s capacity to dispense justice with fairness and equality . particularly close to my heart be OBV ' s MP shadow scheme and the Pathway to Success programme , which have support so many to get a taste of what MP life be like . many alumnus of that programme be now member of this place : my friend the hon . member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) be one , and I be another . I thank the man , the myth , the legend that be Lord Simon Woolley in the other place — the godfather of black british politic — for his decade of work to help make that happen . how could I forget our very own black fairy godmother of british politic , Baroness Floella Benjamin , who sit , pride of place , on the liberal Democrat Benches in the other place ? within my own party , it have mean a lot to have be part of the Stellar programme , which have support I in my journey , first as a candidate and then as an MP , to break through the glass ceiling that the people of Eastbourne smash so awesomely to the tune of 52 % on 4 July . I be also proud of the Lib Dem campaign for race equality , head up by Mohsin Khan and the amazing Roderick Lynch , to whom I send my good wish , and the Lib Dem racial diversity campaign , lead by Chris French , for the work that they have all do to support black people to stand for council and for this place . we have have inspirational councillor elect — Nancy Jirira , Tumi Hawkins , Ade Adeyemo and so many more . I know that other party have equivalent scheme . their work be super important in help we to go even far in the next Parliament . black achievement in this place do not begin or end in this Chamber or the other place . I be so proud to work in this building alongside so many black House staff , without whom we can all agree this place would grind to a halt overnight . there be too many to pay individual tribute to in just one speech , but let I name just two , who I believe be watch , because Jennifer King in the Members ' Tea Room have arrange for they to slip away from behind the counter . they be Margaret and Godfrey . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] the first time I walk into the Members ' Tea Room , I be a nervous , brand - new MP day into the job . then come Margaret , who know my name , know where I be from and take I under her wing . she give I the big hug — and then , swiftly , come she and Godfrey ' s rightful mocking that I , as a man with nigerian blood , can not tolerate spicy jollof . it make I an awful half - nigerian . Grandma , I be so sorry ! I be pleased that the hon . Member have mention Margaret and Godfrey . just to reassure they , there be as much love for both of they on the Labour Benches as there be on the liberal Democrat Benches . I be sure they hear that loud and clear , and I thank the hon . member for his intervention . seriously , the response of folk like Margaret , Godfrey and many other have make I feel more welcome than so many other thing could have in this House . I put on the record my thank to they for their warmth , humour and generosity . this House have come far , but there be still some work to do . I reflect on an anecdote , which I have permission to tell , involve I and my friend the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) . some member can see where this be go . it be week one or two for we as new mp . I be sit in Portcullis House , and the hon . Member come up to I and ask , " be you Josh ? " I say , " yeah , I be . " he say , " I ' m Ben , and I know that you ' re Josh , because three people have mistake I for you already . have anyone mistaken you for I ? " I say , " no , mate , sorry . " [ Laughter . ] I jinx it , because later that day it happen . I bump into the hon . member and say it be 3 - 1 . we exchange number . the following day , I receive a message : " 4 - 1 " . I be then out and about in my constituency at Airborne , which be the world ' s large free seafront airshow , hold in what be officially the sunniest town in the UK . some folk may know that the hon . member for Huntington have a distinguished career in the armed force . somebody come up to I at Airborne and say , " it be so fantastic to see you . great stuff . I ' m really inspire by you — " , and I think , " oh wow , that be really kind . " then they say , " and all the work you do in the Army . " I think , " oh my gosh , in my own constituency ! " it then become 4 - 2 , and I think it now stand at 4 - 3 . this House have come far , and the country have come so far , and I be not prepared to let a group of unpatriotic folk in the minority take we way back . we have some serious work to do to take thing forward . we need to address the disproportionate use of stop and search . we need to tackle the disproportionate level of incarceration : 26 % of the youth custody population be black , compare with just 6 % elsewhere . the fact that black man be twice as likely as other man to get prostate cancer be something else that we need to address . we also need to tackle the fact that maternal mortality be almost four time high among black woman than among white woman , and we need to secure justice for the Windrush generation . I thank my hon . friend for his fantastic speech , and I thank all the other member who have speak for theirs . they have really strike a chord . the Windrush flow through the town of Witney and the rest of my constituency . the Empire Windrush be name after the river , so many in my constituency have a connection , which they honour , to that boat , which bring so many people to this country . I think many people in the constituency remember that everybody be invite — we in this country ask for help at the end of world war two , and that help be give — but too many in this country forget that . black History Month do a great service in remind we who ask for help . I also want to give credit to the Government , because the Windrush compensation scheme — Order . [ interruption . ] order . both of we can not be stand , and I be not go to be seat . you need to sit when I be stand . this be an intervention , not a speech , so I have no doubt that you be come to a conclusion . I be . I thank the Government for their Windrush compensation scheme improvement , and I look forward to their move much more speedily than the previous Government in deliver they . my hon . friend ' s point be very well make . I welcome the news that a Windrush commissioner will be appoint to help address the injustice that my hon . friend so eloquently discuss . I hope that I have illustrate , by spotlight black excellence , what wonder and opportunity await we as we lift our black community . I wish to reclaim the narrative that a rise tide of racial equality truly lift all ship . it be incumbent on all of we in this House to play our part in make that happen . first , because I want to continue have my breakfast in the Tea Room , I wish to pay tribute to Godfrey and Margaret . secondly , there be no doubt that anybody watch the debate will see so many trailblazer and people make history , and it be fantastic for I to be in the Chair to witness that too . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . it be a pleasure to follow the first black Liberal Democrat MP , the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) . we have talk about historical trailblazer , but we be all privileged to serve alongside trailblazer like he . I want to talk about another trailblazer . it be such a joy to see the parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) , take her place and her space at the Government Dispatch Box . I congratulate she on make such an awesome speech . we be long overdue see a woman of ghanaian descent at that Dispatch Box . I think we can all agree : what a woman ! [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] we be surround by inspiration . it be a real honour to be able to listen to and learn from my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) . yes , black fashion should be show at its good and in all its glory , which be why I be happy to offer my very limited skill with an iron today . it have be a privilege to hear the powerful contribution of colleague so far . black History Month be always a time when I know I will learn something new , hear something from a different perspective and share a fire and a renew commitment to right far too many wrong . yes , Black History Month be a celebration — of course it be — but black history have be scar by injustice . sadly , that injustice be not confine to the history book ; it be the live experience of many of our colleague and the people we represent . if we do not act , it will be the experience of future generation as well . not only be these disparity not confine to the history book , but they be not confine to one area of life . from work to pay , from education to health , all area of society need to improve to ensure that we stop history repeat itself and ensure that equality be consistently aim for and one day , hopefully in our lifetime , actually deliver . we know of many brilliant black campaigner who have devote their life to campaign for equality in this country , from the Bristol bus boycott campaigner Paul Stephenson and Roy Hackett to Baroness Lawrence , but we also know that far too many have die wait to see the change that they need and deserve . at least 53 people who be victim of the Windrush scandal have die wait for compensation for the injustice that see the Home Office wrongfully deny british citizen , mostly from the Caribbean , access to work , healthcare and benefit . in the bad case , people be threaten with deportation despite not only have the right to live in the UK but , as have be mention , play an integral part in rebuild our country after the war . as the Minister say , our history and black history be intertwine . the Windrush generation should have be cause for gratitude , not scandal and hostility . commitment to re - establish the Home Office ' s Windrush unit and appoint a Windrush commissioner be incredibly welcome , but we also need assurance that lesson have genuinely be learn and that any future change to immigration law will ensure that we never see another iteration of the Windrush scandal . I would welcome further detail on how the Home Office be work with victim to speed up the delivery of compensation to those who be still wait . as my hon . friend the Member for Brent East excellently outlined , black people face inequality throughout their life , in healthcare , employment , access to service and opportunity , to name just a few example . that have be a focus of the Women and Equalities Committee , and I hope it will continue to be . in 2023 , the Committee report on black maternal health inequality follow the release of datum show that black woman be more likely than white woman to die in childbirth . worryingly , the Committee find that black woman be more likely to experience treatment that fall below acceptable level and lack dignity and respect , and that the need of the patient be often ignore . I have be lucky to meet inspirational campaigner such as Tinuke and Clo from five x More . they continue to work with black family and healthcare provider to secure improvement , but change be too slow . in his recent review , Lord Darzi find that inequality in maternity care persist , note that black woman be still almost three time as likely as white woman to die in childbirth . that be not to mention the racism that many black healthcare worker have report face in their job and institution . it sadly come as no surprise to anyone that in any workplace , if you be black , you have to work much hard to progress and face additional burden and discrimination . fear of discrimination can prevent black woman from seek support from their employer during time such as the menopause , make it difficult for woman to access appropriate support or have their symptom take seriously . there be a double whammy of be an old woman and a black woman , and the Committee find that , as a result of that intersectionality , the difficulty face by woman undergo the menopause be compound for black woman . in September , I participate in a panel event organise by the Labour African Network discuss healthcare inequality in the UK . I be strike by many of the contribution , but particularly by those of Davina Brown , a race ambassador in the GMB union — I declare an interest as a member — and a leader in the area of empower black woman in the workplace . she note that black woman face more criticism and insecurity in work than their white colleague . in the NHS , the large employer of woman in the public sector , depend on the NHS trust , black woman can be up to four time more likely to be involve in disciplinary proceeding . Healthcare be not the only industry where the intersectionality of gender and race mean that woman sadly face additional barrier to protection , support and progress . as have be mention , black woman be woefully under - represent in popular olympic sport such as swimming , diving and cycling , as be black man , lead to a vicious circle where child grow up find it hard to envisage themselves compete in those area . as we hear from the Minister , if we do not see ourselves in other in position of power or success , how can we envisage that for ourselves ? we must have strong pathway that specifically encourage black girl and young woman to realise their potential and follow their ambition in sport . in football , we see a much more diverse picture ; many of the current England man ' s team be from black or mixed heritage background . however , the way they be treat by the press and the public — a notable example be the player who miss penalty in the 2021 man ' s Euros final — show the huge risk pose to those who play at the high and most visible level . in woman ' s football , the diversity in English player leave much more to be desire . I be grateful for the Football Association ' s investment in reach girl from diverse background , include through its Discover my Talent programme . however , with black and mixed race player hold to much high standard of behaviour than their white counterpart , and at great risk of online hate , many of we worry how their future talent will be receive . the music industry be another area where equality be desperately lacking . in its report " Misogyny in music " last year , the Women and Equalities Committee hear evidence that black woman be often overlook for promotion and have their qualification question . how many time have brilliant black mp in this Chamber have to justify why they be here , be tell that they be in the wrong lift , be confuse with other mp or even be hand a handbag to carry ? I would have hope that thing would be different in area such as sport and the art that be so much more diverse and so much young than politic , but even there , progress be far too slow . datum from black life in Music show that black woman in the music industry be on average pay the least , and that they be pay 25 % less than white woman — that be shocking , but wait for the next one — and 52 % less than white man . nearly half of the black woman the group correspond with say that their mental wellbeing have significantly worsen in the music industry , and a fifth seek counselling because of racial abuse . as a result of the inquiry , the Committee call for section 14 of the Equality Act 2010 , which provide protection from discrimination on the basis of a combination of two relevant protect characteristic , to be bring into force , as well as for the introduction of ethnicity pay gap reporting . it be very welcome that the new Labour Government have commit to introduce both measure . we look forward to scrutinise progress in the year ahead , but any update the Minister have on those two vital commitment — ethnicity pay gap reporting and intersectionality protection — would always be welcome . that be where I want to end , on hope — on the hope that thing will not always stay the same , and that we can move forward together . as Charisse Beaumont , chief executive of black life in Music , tell the Committee , " unless we break or tackle racial discrimination , we can not really tackle everything else " . I call Ben Obese - Jecty . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be grateful for someone recognise the difference between I and my friend the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) ! I do not like talk about race . I do not like talk about the colour of someone ' s skin , with the innuendo that often accompany it , not because it be awkward and not for any lack of pride or identity , but simply because it be so rare for the context to be positive , as well as because of the inevitable abuse from those on the left that follow any contribution from Conservative Members . sometimes the distance between the two side of this Chamber be far great than just two sword ' length . my father meet my mother in 1969 when they be teenager , he the son of the Stool Chief of Apirede - Akuapem , Nana Oboni Ayim Nyarko III , she a white girl from West Sussex who work in the local bank . neither of they be a toolmaker or work for the NHS , but I doubt that anyone will be surprised to learn that 1969 be not the cultural epoch of inter - racial relationship . it be hard — much hard than anything that I have ever have to go through . they face prejudice that I could never imagine . but , as one might expect , they have the strength to persevere , and I be hugely proud of they because they be still together . this Christmas eve , it will be 55 year since they meet , and they be still go strong . they blaze a trail that I , and thousand like I , have be able to follow . they never ask for any recognition or , I be sure , expect to receive any , but they absolutely grizze it out , and I would not be stand here today if they have not last the course . reclaim the narrative start with their story and other like theirs . too often , we talk about life as a black Briton through the filter of injustice . we obsess over slavery and reparation , over grievance and micro - aggression , over systemic and institutional racism . we unintentionally drip feed an invective of nihilistic victimhood and exculpable underachievement , and then we wonder why some find it so easy to look down on the black population , and why some within it be so unwilling to do their share of the heavy lifting . we risk reinforce a " they and we " narrative that tell black Britons that they be second - class citizen . we lazily accept a media landscape that revel in promote the very bad aspect of black culture , repeatedly valorise criminality and violent gang and exploit negative stereotype for commercial gain , without ever really hold to account the company that happily do so . it be one of the contribute factor to the milieu that feed concern around stop and search on the one hand , and child carry knife on the other . it be for all of we in this House to reclaim that narrative , recognise that it be not the historic narrative that we be saddle with , but a current one to which we be voluntarily yoke . we have a responsibility in this House , whether we like it or not , to be role model for those who follow we . we who have the confidence , the talent or the simple good fortune to find ourselves in this place have show that race need no long be a barrier to success . we must recognise that . reclaim the narrative start with those of we who be privileged enough to be a visible representation of what be possible . not through all - black shortlist or well - mean but clumsily implement push to increase diversity that inevitably come at someone else ' s expense , but because we earn it . I would never want to think that my success be in any way manufacture because somebody take pity on I because I be not white . nor would I want that for anybody else . be black do not stop anyone from be select in a rural conservative seat , be the London mayoral candidate or run for the leadership of historically the most successful political party in the world . I be hugely proud to be british , to have serve in the British Army and to be here now on the green Benches . I hope that other can feel that this country be one that they be proud to serve , too . generously , I will leave the last word to the Labour party , and in particular to the first black Cabinet Minister , Lord Boateng , on his promotion to Chief Secretary to the Treasury : " my colour be part of I but I do not choose to be define by my colour . " for I , as somebody who do not like to talk about their race , that be one sentiment that make the gap between the two side of the House a little less than two sword ' length . we now come to a maiden speech from Liam Conlon . I congratulate the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) , who have be a friend of mine for many year , on secure the debate . this be the first time we have have a Black History Month debate in Government time . we be incredibly proud of she and everything that she be do . I thank those who have speak so far — my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) , the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) and the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) — for their brilliant contribution . it be an honour to make my maiden speech in Black History Month , and I know that this debate will be welcome by many of my constituent in Beckenham and Penge . we be proud of notable local such as former child ' s tv presenter Baroness Benjamin of Beckenham , Windrush lawyer and campaigner Jacqueline McKenzie , and my friend Michelle De Leon , the ceo and founder of World Afro Day . Beckenham and Penge be a new constituency , so I have two predecessor I would like to thank . Colonel Bob Stewart serve Beckenham for 14 year . he also serve our country as the commander of UN force in Bosnia , where he be deservedly award the distinguished service order . I would like to extend my very good wish to Bob and his family . I would also like to thank my good friend the Minister without Portfolio , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham West and East Dulwich ( Ellie Reeves ) . she have serve our community in Penge , Clock House and Crystal Palace with an unrivalled dedication for the past seven year , and she leave a strong legacy that I will strive to build on . it would be remiss of I to mention one of the Reeves sister without pay tribute to our new Chancellor , who be the first female Chancellor . the Chancellor and the Minister without Portfolio both attend Cator Park School for Girls in Penge . when I visit local school , I always talk about they — they be an inspiration to so many girl and young woman in my constituency , and we be incredibly proud of they . when Colonel Bob Stewart make his maiden speech , he describe Beckenham by say : " politically , it be a fabulous place . it have be a Tory hotbe for ever . " — [ Official Report , 26 May 2010 ; Vol . 510 , c . 215 . ] once upon a time that be true — we count John Major among our former resident — but 14 year on , I be delighted to update the House : today it be in fact the Labour party that have the strong connection to my constituency . Beckenham and Penge be home to not one but two former general secretary of the Labour party , who oversee two of our great victory , in 1997 and 2024 respectively : Lord Tom Sawyer and the mighty David Evans . we also have the long serving chair of the parliamentary Labour party , Lord Cryer , and a former general secretary of the Trades Union Congress , my good friend Lord Monks . I can tell hon . member that know that all those people be watch I as a candidate be one way to keep I out campaign in all weather . Beckenham and Penge be a rich tapestry of distinct and diverse community . it stretch from the SE20 postcode in Crystal Palace , where no few than 19 world record have be set — it be the spiritual home of UK Athletics — and where there be a historic park , grade 1 list dinosaur , and Crystal Palace Bowl , in which Bob Marley play his large ever UK gig , all the way through to the beautiful BR postcode of Shortlands , West Wickham and Beckenham , where former resident David Bowie launch his music career . I be incredibly proud of my London irish identity , so it be special to represent the only place in London with a gaelic place name — Penge , mean " edge of the wood " . come back to the subject of today ' s debate , I should say that there have always be a lot of solidarity between the irish and caribbean and african community in London , who encounter a share experience of discrimination . as have be mention , they be invite to this country to staff our NHS , build our road and help make our country the great place it be to live . they be often meet with discrimination , include sign on window that read " no dog , no black , no Irish " . that share experience of live on the edge of society cause trauma but bring about solidarity between those community . that solidarity be important , and it represent the good of labour value , too . each place and community in Beckenham and Penge have its own history and story to tell . although our community be diverse and distinct , we be also connect and unite by share value of solidarity and care , and the belief that everyone should be able to fulfil their potential and that we be strong together than alone . those be the value that shape my political outlook , too . they come from an understanding of society root in my experience of the NHS as a teenager , and of disability ever since . let I tell you what happen to I . when I be 13 , the day after we break up for the summer holiday in year 8 , I have an accident in which I shatter my right hip . that lead to irreversible damage to my knee and spine . from that point onwards , I be unable to walk for four year . I be take to the Royal London hospital and later to the Royal National Orthopaedic hospital . at the Royal London , I be incredibly fortunate to be place in the care of Dr Mark Paterson , one of the good orthopaedic paediatric consultant in the country . Mark perform nearly 10 major surgery on I as a teenager . I be then transfer to the Royal National Orthopaedic hospital where , as a sixth former , I become one of the young people in Britain to have a hip replacement . throughout those year , I spend nearly as much time on NHS child ' s ward as I do in the school classroom — so much so that I have to drop most of my gcse to focus on my core subject . I be then force to go back a year at school . every year , hundred of child in Britain be admit to long - term care in NHS hospital , just as I be , but although it be in many way a grim reality , my experience of NHS child ' s ward , especially the Grosvenor B ward at the Royal London hospital , be that they be also place of great hope , deep compassion and world - class care . today I want to say thank you to the countless NHS staff and volunteer who help I throughout those year . they quite literally get I back on my foot , and pave the way for I to become the first in my family to go to university . to the consultant , surgeon , physio , junior doctor , nurse , receptionist and hospital cleaning staff : thank you . I will pay my gratitude to you forward by use my voice in this place to fight for the NHS , just as the NHS fight for I . but my experience on leave hospital also shape my understanding of the world around I . I realise at first hand , at a young age , the million different challenge that disable people face every day , and how invisible they be to anyone else . today , disabled people be among the most marginalise in Britain . there be a disability employment gap in this country of 29 % . only one in four disabled child have access to sport at school , and million of disabled people in this country face the indignity of not be able to access public space , or even board a train . I do not need to read a briefing to know what that feel like . it be why representation matter , and why I be determined to make my voice hear , as one of the disabled mps in this Parliament . I hope that when my successor come to make their maiden speech , Beckenham and Penge will be an even well place to live ; that our NHS and public service will be available to everyone , whenever they need they ; and that we will be live in a society that be fair and more inclusive of disabled people , and in a country that recognise its diversity as a strength to be celebrate and champion . I will work hard to make those thing happen , for as long as I be lucky enough to represent my community in this place . that be a memorable maiden speech . I call Si â n Berry . I be grateful to be call to speak in this debate . like other , I thank the Minister for her commitment to further action on redress for the Windrush scandal . I also commend the Commonwealth nation , which be make sure that there be a conversation internationally about redress and action on reparation for the transatlantic trade in trafficked and enslave Africans . I applaud the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for her powerful argument on that point early . I will take the opportunity to talk a little about Brighton today , particularly the Brighton & Hove Black History group . it be formally launch in 2002 and be now a thriving team of local volunteer from very diverse cultural background . it owe its existence to the passion and dedication of Bert Williams MBE , who have spend so much of his retire life research and present the multicultural history of our city . the Brighton & Hove Black History website be an amazing resource for find out about the impact that black resident have have on the city throughout its whole history , and it be full of beautifully present photograph . everyone should visit it . today , there be a lot to celebrate about Brighton and how it look at its history , include its black history . Afrori Books in North Road have be run since 2021 and be found by Carolynn Bain as a safe space for black people and their ally . Carolynn be inspire to open the shop because " I be tired of go to bookstore and have to search for age to find the tiny BAME section that have be allocate to black author . surely , they deserve more than that ? " . Afrori deliver anti - racism training to adult . it run anti - racist club in school across Sussex . it have hair workshop , author event , woman of colour yoga session , writer ' workshop , music event , a book festival and so much more . in Brighton we be also very lucky to have the brilliant Black & Minority Ethnic Community Partnership centre , a sustainable resource centre that champion the black minority ethnic community in Brighton and Hove , own its own building — such a big thing for group like that — and support BME community and their family in so many way . I have meet young refugee there , and long - retire caribbean nurse , all play their part in our brilliant community . I can not omit to mention some of our incredible local artist . we have AFLO . the poet , an amazing speak - word artist who use poetry as a vehicle to address racism and mental health issue . we have Fox Fisher , an incredible non - binary artist , author , film - maker and educator who be cherish in our LGBTQ community . we have Jordan Stephens and Harley Alexander - Sule , well know as Rizzle Kicks , and QM Records , a Brighton - base label and event company found and run by Ned and Nicholson from the well - know local band Normanton Street . I could go on , because those be only a few of the amazing , creative people who be lead the way in Brighton . now in its third year , lead by its director Carolynn Bain of Afrori Books , Althea Wolfe and John Mayford , Brighton book festival be a grassroots festival with equity at its heart . the director ' aim be to create another space in Brighton where writer from under - represent background would be the main focus , and where diverse audience could see themselves reflect . in August , for reason that should not have be require , I become just one of thousand of people who join in powerful collective action in response to far - right riot and threaten racist action against member of our community . as always , Brighton and Hove come together to say loud and clear that those who spread hatred , fear , fascism and racism have no place in our city . as have happen early in our history , thousand of Brightonians defend the value for which our city be well know . this be an important part of build a well history for our future , and confront and defeat the racism in our community . Brighton face challenge , as all place do — we have hear member say that powerfully . we have see the rise in hate crime nationally , with hundred of racist hate incident and crime every year . the safety of black people in Sussex be not help by the fact that , accord to the most recent statistic , they be more than eight time as likely to be stop and search by police as white people . accord to Home Office datum on rate of stop and search by race find that the equivalent of nearly 30 black people in every 1 , 000 live in our area be stop in a 12 - month period . that be not proportionate , and it do not help to keep people safe . Strip - search child be also one of the most racialise tactic use by the police , who be six time more likely to strip - search black child , and I be glad that the Children ' s Commissioner for England have take up this countrywide child ' s right issue . every police service need to take action to prevent this traumatic practice from cause further harm . I recently meet representative of StopWatch , which do fantastic work on strip - searching , as well as on institutionalised racism in the justice system more broadly . the Runnymede Trust have conduct excellent analysis , adopt an evidence - base approach to tackle the cause of the racist riot during the summer . we must continue to pay attention , and do much more to ensure that all the way in which overt and systemic racism affect black people in our city and our country be bring into the open and confront honestly . let I first thank all member for their contribution to the debate . this week , when ask about reparation for slavery , the Prime Minister reply that he be face forward . do the hon . Member agree that in order to face forward we must know our past , and do she think that it should become compulsory in our education system to learn about race , empire , colonialism and slavery ? I absolutely agree with the hon . member about education . as for his point about reparation , the echo of this injustice will not simply fade away ; we need to talk about it and take action . let I end by talk about one more injustice . Jay Abatan be murder in Brighton outside a nightclub in January 1999 . no one have ever be convict for his killing , and his brother Michael , who be there on the night Jay be attack , have spend 25 year campaign for justice . I have meet he several time over the past year at community event , and at a vigil on the anniversary of Jay ' s death . sussex police have apologise to the family for how the case be handle , but I know that member support my predecessor ' s early - day motion express concern about the fact that Jay ' s murderer have still not be bring to justice . I hope I can rely on the same support from Members here for any action that I take on the Abatans ' behalf , for the echo of this injustice , too , will never fade until we take such action . I now call a fellow Brummie , Paulette Hamilton . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I start by thank everyone who have speak in the debate so far . it be an honour to speak today in recognition of Black History Month , a time to reflect on the immense contribution of the black community across the United Kingdom and around the world . this year ' s theme , " reclaim Narratives , " could truly not be more fitting . we be at a turning point in our country ' s history , where the story that we tell can shape the future for generation to come . my parent , like many other , help to shape the city I be bear in through their hard work and determination . they lay the foundation for I to become Birmingham ' s first black Member of Parliament . as a proud child of the Windrush generation , I stand here with immense pride and gratitude for the black history that have shape my own journey and the journey of countless other . it be essential that we acknowledge the challenge that we continue to face , but more importantly , we must celebrate the progress that we have make and the potential that lie ahead . last week I have the privilege of host a Black History Month event in my constituency of Birmingham Erdington , and I be proud to stand alongside a panel of black trailblazer who have break barrier , open door and create last legacy for other . among they be some extraordinary figure , include Birmingham City Council ' s first black deputy leader , Councillor Sharon Thompson , the Deputy Mayor of the West Midlands ; the first black MP to represent her constituency , my hon . friend the Member for Coventry North West ( Taiwo Owatemi ) , who be absolutely brilliant ; and the first black woman to chair the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . all those people demonstrate the power of reclaim narrative through their leadership . this be not just about the victory of the present ; we must lay the foundation for future progress . for I , the theme of reclaim narrative be deeply personal . I would not be stand here as a Member of Parliament be it not for the black leader , mentor and role model who have inspire I . one such figure be the incredible Mary Seacole , a pioneer nurse and a woman of extraordinary resilience , who be the inspiration behind my own decision to become a nurse — a profession to which I dedicate 25 year of my life . her courage , her commitment to care for soldier in the crimean war , and her unwavering determination to serve when society seek to marginalise she because of the colour of her skin , show I that one individual ' s action can , and do , change the course of history . Mary Seacole be deny a place in british history for far too long , but as we reclaim our narrative we recognise she not just as a footnote , but as a giant in the history of healthcare . it be in this spirit that I stand here today : to remind we all of the need to highlight those who have be overlook , to rewrite the history book , and to empower future generation with the knowledge that they , too , can make history . black history be british history , which mean that it be everyone ' s history . the 2024 general election be a landmark moment , because we have the most diverse Parliament in british history — 90 ethnic minority mp be elect , which be a milestone in representation . Britain ' s diversity of voice be its strength , but while we celebrate this achievement , we must not stop make progress . the journey towards equality be far from finished . our responsibility be to promote an environment in which black history be not confine to one month of the year , but recognise and celebrate every single day . we celebrate Black History Month to remember . we celebrate Black History Month to honour . we celebrate Black History Month to educate . I urge all member to continue to challenge the narrative that divide we , to ensure that when we tell the story of Britain , we tell it in full , acknowledge the contribution , sacrifice and legacy of black people who have shape our country ' s past and present , and who will shape its future . as we move forward , let we remind ourselves that it be not just about break barrier ; it be about ensure that those barrier be never rebuild , and create opportunity for other to follow . let we be inspire by the courage and determination of those who come before we , and let we commit to ensure that we be not the last but the first of many . let we continue to reclaim our narrative . let we continue to build a future where every story be tell and every contribution be recognise . let we continue to inspire . I pay tribute to all hon . member who have make such brilliant speech today . I pay particular compliment to the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) , for support I on my journey into politic . I do not come from a political background — I come from a military and self - employ business background — but when I meet my hon . friend during a couple of political engagement , she see something in I , support I and give I some good counsel . she even come out and campaign for I , so I thank she for her support . I be honour to be here represent Southend East and Rochford and discuss Black History Month . the theme of this year ' s Black History Month be " reframe the narrative . " to do that , I want to champion the contribution of black inventor , black scientist , black scholar , black literature , black journalist and black innovator . I also want to acknowledge the history of black military personnel . finally , I want to talk about black excellence in the art , culture and the creative industry . in celebrate black inventor , scientist and mathematician — I know that my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) , as a technical person , will appreciate this — I pay tribute to Lewis Latimer and Morgan Garrett . Lewis Latimer , who be bear in Massachusetts in 1848 , invent the carbon filament find in light bulb , give we long - last light . Morgan Garrett , who be bear in Kentucky in 1877 , invent the gas mask and the traffic light system , which , as we know , have go on to save ten of thousand of life . come close to these shore , I pay tribute to Walter Tull , who be bear in folkestone in 1888 . he be one of England ' s first black professional football player , go on to play for Tottenham — I didn ' t say he be perfect . [ laughter . ] Tull go on to be one of the first black officer in the British Army , serve with credit in world war one . tragically , he be fatally shoot in northern France in March 1918 . a number of member have speak about the history of the UK . the original wall surround the city of London be build by Severus , who be the first african emperor of the roman empire . he build the city of London wall to protect the citadel of London , as it be then . a number of hon . member have speak about black history be british history , and the wall be a testament to how far back black history go . as we be approach Remembrance Day and talk about reshape narrative , it would be remiss of I not to mention and champion the West African Division , formerly the West African Frontier Force . the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) mention the commitment , dedication and sacrifice of people from the Afro - Caribbean community who give everything to the armed force and the british empire , and the West African Division be a testament to that . the West African Frontier Force be form in 1915 , and be rename as the West African Division in 1943 . it comprise man from Nigeria , Ghana , Sierra Leone and the Gambia . thousand be draft in to fight in Burma , which , as many hon . member will know , see some of the harsh and fiercest fighting during the second world war . the West African Division stand shoulder to shoulder with soldier from India and Britain as they fight the japanese enemy at the time . it be crucial that the commitment and sacrifice — sometimes the ultimate sacrifice — of those man be remember whenever we talk about the contribution of colonial and Commonwealth soldier in the second world war . when talk about black excellence here in the UK , we have to talk about our huge contribution to the art , film and , of course , the music industry . Steve McQueen be a director whose most notable film be " 12 year a slave " and " Lover ' s Rock " . Courtney Pine be an internationally recognise musician who I have have the pleasure of see many a time . writer , director and multiple literary prize winner Malorie Blackman be the person behind book such as " Noughts & Crosses " and " Boys Don ' t cry " . last but by no mean least be my childhood friend Randall McNeil , also know as DJ Randall . Randall be an internationally acclaim pioneer of UK drum and bass and the dance industry . he help transform the UK dance industry with his style , skill and personality . sadly , we lose Randall early this year . finally , give that we be here in the House of Commons Chamber , which have an immense history , I pay tribute to the Mother of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) . as we know , she become the first black woman to be elect to the House in 1987 . she inspire a generation and pave the way for many of we to follow she . I be the first black Labour MP for Southend East and Rochford . the result of my election be declare about an hour before that of my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) , so perhaps I be be slightly creative here — it be 20 minute ! my hon . friend ' s result be declare 20 minute after mine , and we become Southend ' s first black mp . it be really important to talk about reframe narrative . black history have too often be see through the prism of the transatlantic slave trade and the american civil right movement , so I want to talk about how black british history have affect the United Kingdom . include black people harmonise history well and more accurately , improve community cohesion and economic prosperity . by tell a more accurate story and reference the african diaspora ' s impact on society , we can do just that — we reframe the narrative . no doubt the Mother of the House will be reference throughout the debate ; it be good not to refer to member by their name , but by their constituency or , in this case , as Mother of the House . I now call Jacob Collier to make his maiden speech . it be a privilege to follow the contribution today , in particular that of my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) , who speak so powerfully about his personal experience . I know he will be a great champion for his constituency . I be honour to be the Member of Parliament for the newly rename Burton and Uttoxeter constituency — a community rich in history and diversity . although there be no boundary change , the inclusion of Uttoxeter recognise the proud people and industry that be integral to our area . I be far honour to be deliver my maiden speech in this debate on Black History Month , which remind we of the importance of recognise the contribution of black Britons , past and present , to our society . in my constituency , the Burton Caribbean Association have support resident for more than 45 year . its effort have enrich our community and celebrate the heritage of black Britons in our town , and I look forward to support its work . as I serve in this House , I commit to represent the diverse community across my constituency , ensure that their voice be hear , their contribution celebrate and their challenge address . we all have a duty to ensure that black history be british history , weave into the fabric of our national identity not just for one month , but all year round . it be essential that we not only recognise that history , but address the challenge of inequity that remain . to be elect to this House be the great honour that anyone can bestow , but to have the opportunity to serve your home town , as I do , be particularly special . I grow up in Stretton and go to local school , William Shrewsbury and de Ferrers — the primary schoolteacher who appoint I to the school council all those year ago have a lot to answer for . on the campaign trail , I bump into many of my former teacher and schoolfriend , include my former headteacher , Mrs Hunter . while I be campaign after become an MP , a former teacher say , " I must be get old , my former student be now my MP . " you can imagine , Madam Deputy Speaker , how strange this must feel for my parent , who be watch this debate . I believe they be the hard - work parent of any candidate across the country and without they I could not do this job . they have be with I from the very beginning — quite literally . I come from a military family and I be proud of the service of my brother , alongside all who wear the uniform of our country and defend our freedom . as Remembrance Day approach , it serve as a powerful moment to reflect on those who have give their life in service to our country , and to honour the sacrifice make by veteran , current service personnel and their family . the value of duty , service and sacrifice be not just word ; they be the live experience of everyone who serve , and I will always advocate for ensure that they receive the respect , care , and support they have earn . I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Kate Kniveton , who serve in this House from 2019 until the last election . like I , she be a Burtonian and a former employee at the Burton Albion football club . Kate use to manage hospitality and I use to manage the bar in the stand , so I be use to manage difficult people — such as Opposition Members . I commend Kate ' s courage and bravery in speak out about the sexual violence she face . for any woman to go through that privately must be unimaginable , but to waive anonymity and do so in the public eye to help other woman be commendable . she undoubtedly help other through speak out , and I wish she and her daughter well for the future . I also recognise my labour predecessor and friend , Janet Dean , who serve as the MP for Burton from 1997 to 2010 . when Janet be elect to this House , I be not quite bear yet — apology if I have make anybody feel old — but it be Janet and her colleague in that Labour Government who give child like I new textbook , new play equipment , small class size and specialist support for more vulnerable child . much of that have now be unpick , and it fall to this Government to give kid today the opportunity that I and my generation have under that last Labour Government . Janet have continue to dedicate herself to serve the community and can still be find help out in Uttoxeter , particularly at Redfern ' s Cottage , where she make a mean cheese scone . I be delighted to represent a constituency that be diverse in both its people and its place . we have two major town surround by many beautiful village . our large town , Burton upon Trent , be well know for its brewing heritage . we be still the heart of UK brewing today , with large company such as Molson Coors and Marston ' s and independent brewer such as Burton Bridge , Uttoxeter Brewing Company and Tower Brewery . we often hear the remark that there must be something in the water , but in Burton there literally be : our water be rich in calcium sulphate , create the ideal formula for pale ale and bitter — so much so that many other place copy we through a process call Burtonisation . member be of course welcome to join I in sample the original and the good . the iconic red triangle of Bass become the world ' s first ever register trademark . because of Bass ' s global reach , it can be find all over the world , though of course , hon . member will spot it in the many wonderful pub across my constituency . the Devonshire arm and the Coopers Tavern be my personal favourite . during my time in the House I will be an advocate for the brewing industry and our pub , which be a key part of not only our history , but of our present and future . in Burton , more than 15 different language be speak . we have vibrant pakistani , polish and romanian culture . that mix of culture make we strong and be in keep with the motto of our county of Staffordshire , " the Knot Unites " . if you head north - west from Burton , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will probably do so on the A50 , where you will most likely end up in congestion — do not worry : that be something I be work on with the Roads Minister , who happen to be on the Front Bench — but eventually , you will end up in the town of Uttoxeter . Uttoxeter be a beautiful and proud town with a rich history of agriculture and manufacturing , and be home to Uttoxeter racecourse . in the short time I have be Uttoxeter ' s MP , I have hear several quite strange pronunciation of the town ' s name from hon . member . local people , however , fondly refer to the town as at " Utch " or " Utcheter " — I apologise to the Hansard reporter for the difficulty I have just cause . in Rocester we find the iconic yellow digger of JCB , which be headquarter and have several factory in my constituency . I be proud of the ingenuity and innovation that we have locally , and I will continue to stand up for british manufacturing during my time in this House . as this government put service back at the heart of public life , there be so many of my constituent who go out of their way to help other , volunteer in food bank and youth club and run community activity . I have be humble to visit some of these group , from the BAC o ' Connor Centre to SARAC — the Sexual Abuse Rape Advice Centre — Burton YMCA , Burton HOPE , Uttoxeter Heath Community Centre and the Community Church , and I look forward to visit many more during my time in this House . before be elect I be a communication officer for Nottinghamshire Fire and Rescue Service , and I take this opportunity to pay tribute to all my former colleague and to this country ' s firefighter , control and support staff for the dedicated work they do to keep we safe . I look forward to continue my association with the Fire Service in Parliament . upon take up my role in this House , I sadly leave my role as a Unison workplace trade union rep , but it be with great pride that on Monday I vote for the Employment Rights Bill , which be just one part of Labour ' s new deal for work people . I believe that that Bill , like the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 , will be one of the landmark piece of legislation of this Labour Government . it will transform the life of worker across the country , strengthen their right , ensure fair treatment and restore balance in a system that have too often be skew against work people . as a proud trade unionist , I will continue the fight for work people in this House , ensure that their voice be hear and secure the right they deserve . I thank my constituent for the honour they have give I of serve they . every day that I be in this House , I will work to serve they to the very good of my ability . I wish to start by thank the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) , for secure this debate — the first that we have have in Government time — in the name of the Prime Minister . I thank , too , my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for all the work that she have do in encourage this debate into the House . I also wish to recognise my hon . friend the Members for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) and for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) who make their maiden speech today , and everybody else who have contribute to this debate . my stomach be tell I that it would be remiss of I not to also recognise Margaret and Godfrey . [ laughter . ] black history be my history , but , as so many have say today , it be all of our history in this country . the fact that , this year , the theme be reclaim the narrative , celebrate the changemaker , be not lose on I . this debate be need so much after the riot that we see in this country over the summer . I be so pleased that that division do not get its way in this country and that this Government act quickly to stamp it out . community , include my own in Southend West and Leigh , come together and say with one voice , " division do not belong here . " Madam Deputy Speaker , if you will bear with I for a moment , I wish to share a bit of my narrative . some often say that I be the human form of the United Nations , and I shall give the House a bit of an idea as to why that be . my mum be white . her father — my grandad , David Sampson — be half - scottish , half - french . then we move to my nan , Ellen Hansen , who be half - cornish , half - danish ; her dad be half - dutch . then we move on to my dad . Edmund Danns , his dad , be from Berbice , a sugar plantation town in British Guiana . as we have hear from so many , Edmund take up the call during the second world war to join the British Navy . by 1941 , he be one of 42 people who have join the British Navy from British Guiana . after the war , he continue his career on the sea and join the Merchant Navy . it be at a stop in Liverpool that he meet my grandmother in 1956 . she be Irene Bedford , and her dad be a gentleman call Siar Bofferd , who become know as Edward Bedford , or buffer to his mate . he come from Liberia . Edward arrive in Liverpool as a seaman , and it be there that he meet his wife , Mary Kelly . have a guess where she be from — yes , Ireland . member can now start to see how I embody the United Nations . Edward remain in Liverpool , and , during the war , he serve in the Royal Navy , as many do , include those in the black community . these people be give their service to this country , and that be happen well before the second world war . in the 1960 , my nan and grandad marry . my nan , Irene , be subject to terrible racism in Liverpool , which happen in so many black community throughout these land . Edmund have to give up sailing , because he be concerned about his wife ' s safety , so he take a job in a factory . member can only imagine the racism that Mary Kelly experience in 1925 . she be an irish immigrant marry to a liberian gentleman — they have black child . unfortunately , we all know that discrimination and racism have continue through the year . yes , thing have get well , but they still very much exist . I , along with many member , have experience this racism just simply because of the colour of my skin . the assumption that have be make about I because of the colour of my skin be simply unacceptable . it be even bad today , as we see the effect of online racism . my hon . friend the Member for Brent East have be very clear about the impact that that have have on she and so many other . interestingly , because I be bring up in a one - parent family , with my white mum , in a very white community in Liverpool , I see myself as part of the white community . I do not really explore my black culture . the kid at school show a little bit of racism towards I , but in the main , they do not see my colour , which mean that I do not see my colour . it be only once I leave school and enter the world of work that that racism really become prominent . I be very fortunate to work at the Maritime Museum in Liverpool in 1997 . I be an actor at the time , believe it or not , and I take on a small part in an exhibition about emigrate to the New World . it be an absolutely brilliant exhibition in its basement site , and just next to it be a very small exhibition : just a couple of stand with some information . that be the slavery museum — it be so small that you would miss it . but by 2007 , the Maritime Museum have create the International Slavery Museum , which take up the whole third floor of the building . I be delighted to hear that by 2028 , that museum will have be significantly expand . it be a permanent memorial to the struggle that can never be forget , and my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) be so lucky to have it in her constituency . I hope we can all go up there and see the new museum in 2028 once it be build . many of we in this Chamber and in this country have never be subject to slavery or apartheid , but that do not mean that we have not suffer . we have hear today about the suffering that so many people have experience . we must not forget the contribution that black people have make to our society to make it the great british society that it be today . I be talk in particular about the Windrush generation , who we have hear so much about already . they help to rebuild this country . they take up position in transport , in domestic service , in hospitality and most notably in the health service . I be delighted to hear about the creation of the Windrush commissioner : those victim ' voice have to be hear , and they have to get the compensation that they rightfully deserve . representation be so important . as a young black kid , I often do not see representation above I in position like this . we have already recognise the Mother of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , alongside two other member elect to this place in 1987 : they be the first black member to be elect to this place since the last one leave here in 1893 , almost 100 year early . that be Peter McLagan , a Scottish MP , and he be one of only four black member who have sit in this place before 1987 . but look at today : 14 % of people in this place be from ethnic minority , 41 % be woman and almost 10 % be lgbtq + member . we be now a Parliament that be much more representative of this country . just as the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) thank his party for its work to ensure great diversity , I thank my party for its work in get we here today . regrettably , that representation be not the same everywhere . in business , as of March this year , there be zero FTSE 100 company that have a black chair , a black chief executive officer , a black chief financial officer or a black chief product officer . black employee hold just 1 . 5 % of leadership role in UK private company , despite make up about 4 . 2 % of the population . we have to remove the barrier to opportunity . do the glass ceiling exist ? I do not know , but there be something stop people get through . we need to help people break through it , if it do exist . this government ' s new office for equality and opportunity and their equality , race and disability Bill be a good start . I thank those who like to create cohesive community , include many in my constituency of Southend West and Leigh . I have a little message for those who ask , " when be we go to have white history month ? " . let I tell you : you have white history month every day : it be in your school curriculum , it be in the museum and it be everywhere around you . we need the same for Black History Month , because we belong here just as much as everybody else . we need to learn from the past to drive a well future . in this place , we need to ensure that the law and the change we make create opportunity for all , no matter what their background be . I urge the Minister to ensure that equality and opportunity be at the heart of our Government ' s five mission . everyone should be give the opportunity to live their good life — their most authentic life — to the max . I call Jenny Riddell - Carpenter to make her maiden speech . it be an honour to deliver my maiden speech in this debate . may I start by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) , or Burton and Utch , for provide such great insight and a touching story of the constituency . it be an honour and an incredible privilege to stand here today as the Member of Parliament for Suffolk Coastal , a seat that for the first time in its history now have a Labour MP . my journey to this place be , in no small part , down to the dedication and hard work of the incredible local Labour party , an army of dedicated volunteer campaigner who believe it possible when few else do . they work tirelessly , with a dedication that have inspire and move I beyond word . I put on the record my gratitude and thank to each of they for their work , not just in Suffolk Coastal but beyond Suffolk . I take over the seat from the right honourable Dame Th é r è se Coffey , who have represent it since 2010 . I would like to thank she for her service to Suffolk Coastal . I know that the election come at a particularly challenging time for Dame Th é r è se and her family , and I know that it can not have be an easy campaign to fight . I send she and her family the warm of well wish . I pay tribute to Dame Th é r è se ' s predecessor , the right honourable Lord Deben , who be well known to this House as John Gummer . despite our political difference , Lord Deben be someone I look up to as a role model for what a dedicated and committed constituency MP look like . in fact , as Suffolk Coastal be the seat I grow up in , I have many memory of Lord Deben from when I be a child . at school , at f ê tes and at many event , it always seem impossible to meet someone who do not know or have not meet the right honourable John Gummer . he remain to this day a dedicated champion for my constituency , and he have be a forthright and vocal advocate for the environment for many decade , since long before it become fashionable . I look forward to take that work forward myself in Suffolk Coastal . I give a similar commitment to protect the environment and make sure that we improve nature , increase bio - diversity and do more to clean up our river and sea . when I say that it be a privilege to represent that incredible place , Suffolk Coastal , it be a statement that I do not make lightly . for I , it be a deeply personal responsibility , because I be not just a new MP . I be also a local MP : Suffolk Coastal be where I be bring up . I be raise in Martlesham Heath , just outside Woodbridge . it be the place that shape I , and I could not be more honoured to represent the community that my family call home . you may know of Suffolk Coastal , Madam Deputy Speaker , because it be home to some of the most beautiful seaside market town and village in our country . beautiful Southwold , Saxmundham , Aldeburgh , Walberswick and Orford — these be just some of the place in my constituency that bring thousand of people to Suffolk each year and be backdrop of my own childhood . in fact , it be such a special corner of the country that many member of both Houses , and on both side , seem to have retire there . my current tally be that eight retired peer be constituent of mine . if the trend continue , we may find that at the next boundary review Suffolk Coastal be rename Westminster - by - Sea . I know why each of they be draw to this special place . it be for the same reason that I freely and frequently boast about the beauty and rich history of Suffolk Coastal . for a small corner of the UK , we have play a huge part in british history across art , music and culture , as well as defence , agriculture , trade and technology . Southwold , which be now a magnet for tourist , be home to George Orwell in his youth . he take his name from the River Orwell , which mark the southernmost point in my constituency . we be also home to the most important Anglo - Saxon site in the UK , Sutton Hoo . the story of its discovery have be retell on Netflix ' s " the Dig " . I recently visit the Sutton Hoo Ship ' s Company in Woodbridge and be amazed to see the work of hundred of volunteer to build a full - size reconstruction of the Sutton Hoo burial ship — a pioneer task to recreate an important piece of our local history . while my neighbour the hon . member for Central Suffolk and North Ipswich ( Patrick Spencer ) can boast of his constituency be home to Ed Sheeran , Suffolk Coastal fly the flag for Benjamin Britten and his partner , the opera singer Peter Pears . if Benjamin Britten and Peter Pears be alive today , they would be celebrate Black History Month and use the art and music to tell the story that matter locally and globally . archive hold in the Red House — their former home in Aldeburgh , which be open to the public — show that Benjamin Britten stand in solidarity with the African National Congress during the pivotal trial of 1963 . Suffolk Coastal ' s contribution to the UK be evident today . we be proud to be the engine of growth for the region . we be home to the port of Felixstowe , the United Kingdom ' s large container port , and we boast of be home to BT ' s Adastral Park , a national centre of digital innovation with more than 150 business in the tech cluster . although we be proud to host big business , we also have a unique entrepreneurialism that be deep - root in each of our community . across Felixstowe , Leiston , Saxmundham , Woodbridge and beyond , we have a strong community of business owner and entrepreneur . in fact , across the Suffolk coast last year , we see 54 % growth in microbusinesse , more than 10 time the national average . for all its charm and beauty , however , there be much that lie beneath , hide in plain sight in our beautiful seaside town and charming village . we have a special educational need and disability crisis that be no less severe in Suffolk Coastal than it be across the rest of Suffolk and the east of England . we have real deprivation in some of our rural town . this rural poverty cut across all age group : we have young family struggle with the cost of living , we have people struggle to access and stay in work , and we have an old population who be often isolate in rural community , with few or no bus service to connect they to the amenity and health service that they need most . next week will be my mum ' s 80th birthday , but she do not know that we will be celebrate she . she do not know that I be give this speech today or indeed that her daughter be the MP for the place that she call home for so long . she have no idea that I be advocate for great support for the disease that have take she from we . in Suffolk Coastal , we have one of the high rate of dementia in our country . I have no choice but to advocate for the fight against that disease , because I have see at first hand , up close and personal , how terrible it be . two year ago , I have to make the heartbreaking decision to move my mum into care — to pack her bag and drive she to her first care home . I think and perhaps hope that that day would be a low point — that it would be my own rock bottom in my journey to support mum — but it be just the beginning of a year - long struggle to get mum into the right care . she be kick out of three care home and end up in hospital for six week , take up a bed in a ward while the system try to find she a suitable home . she last three month at the next care home before I start a one - woman campaign to try to get she sectioned . I would not wish that experience on anyone . try to get someone sectioned be — heartbreakingly — an act of love , because you know it be the last - ditch , desperate attempt to get the help and medical support that your love one need . luckily , today that be all behind we , and mum be now safe and well , care for in a care home , but the crisis for other family be still very much alive . since I have be elect to this place , I have lose count of the number of time that desperate family have reach out to I with an all too familiar tale . it be these thing that fuel my determination to make every day in this place count and ensure that I speak up for those who have be forget and leave behind or do not have a voice to speak up for themselves . I look forward to play my part in Parliament . it be a real pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) , who give a powerful and move maiden speech . I reassure she that I will be in the trench alongside she in the fight to support those with dementia and their family . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) , who give a very good maiden speech , and my near neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) . Team Staffordshire hunt as a pack , and I be delighted to be here to listen to he . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate . I thank the Leader of the House for ensure that it have be hold in Government time , because each and every person who live , learn and work in our United Kingdom , and each and every person who move here to work in our national health service , on our railway , in our school or on our building site , deserve to be hear , listen to and celebrate . I be proud to be british . I be a proud son of a Zimbabwean - bear dad and the proud grandson of a Jamaican who come to our country in the 1940 to help we to win world war two , as many other black and asian man do in the great war and in year subsequent . I be proud to be black — a black british Member of Parliament , word that even 40 year still seem so impossible and so far off . I acknowledge those who have go before I . I be the first black Member of Parliament in Staffordshire ' s history . follow in the footstep of my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) , who , follow the death of Jack Dromey , become the first woman and the first black person to represent a Birmingham constituency , I be the first black man to represent anywhere in the west midland in Parliament . if we think about the contribution that black people such as my grandfather make to Birmingham , Coventry , Wolverhampton , Stoke - on - Trent and Stafford , it show how far we have come , but also how long it have take . as we have hear , black history be british history , certainly in the context of our United Kingdom . as we approach Armistice Day and Remembrance Sunday , when our United Kingdom come together to reflect and acknowledge the sacrifice of all the man and boy , and woman and girl , who go to war and contribute at home , I want to remember all those who leave the colony , as they be then , and give their life for freedom . nobody here or outside this House should ever forget that we would not have beat the Germans on the beach of Normandy , at Gallipoli , or at Burma , as my hon . friend the Member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) note , without the bravery and valour of young man — black , white and Asian . they leave their green island home and the african continent for the ravage of war . they be on the frontline in the fight against tyranny , fascism and hatred , and their bravery win the day . for many of those who return from the frontline , our United Kingdom become their home . these black man and woman roll up their sleeve , put their shoulder to the wheel , and help to rebuild a nation ravage by war . home be build . our bus be back on the road . railway work once again . our national health service be establish . restaurant open and sell food with spice , seasoning and everything nice . fabric shop and tailor ensure that our country have some of the well dress people on the world stage , and our United Kingdom bounce back . so much more happen , and we as a country would not , and could not , have do it without the sacrifice and contribution of the black british community . that contribution live on . two week ago , I be delighted to welcome the Staffordshire Black Business Network award 2024 to Keele University in Newcastle - under - Lyme . it be a wonderful opportunity to celebrate the incredible contribution that black business make across our county , and I be very grateful to my hon . friend the Members for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) and for Stoke - on - Trent North ( David Williams ) and my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) , who be next to I now , for join I at that event . from brand - new start - up to long - stand pillar of our high street , town centre and community , black and ethnic - minority - lead business contribute more than £ 25 billion to the UK economy every year . last week , I be delighted to cut the ribbon and open officially a new black - own business in Newcastle - under - Lyme . I pay tribute to Gloria , the owner , and her family for their determination and grit , and wish they all the good . their new store focus on african clothing , so I will be go to buy some tie at the weekend — with my own money — and I look forward to show they off in this place . as we celebrate Black History Month , we must also reflect on the promise of our country . to think that my grandfather arrive on a boat , and here I be today — that would not happen in many other part of the world , but it happen in our United Kingdom , and we should never forget that . I be proud of my race , but it do not define I . it inspire I , yes , and it have open door — and , regrettably , it have probably close a few , too — but it also allow I to show those who come after I that anything be possible . show that example , and not pull up the ladder , as some have do , be how I will approach my responsibility . her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II say that she have to be see to be believe , and she be right . she set an example in rebuild and repair Britain ' s relationship with the former colony . I would not vote for the shadow Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , on any day of the week , but it be important for our country , as the shadow Minister note early , that we could have a black woman as Leader of the Opposition in a matter of day . it be not my place to interrupt private grief , but if she do win , I hope that she enjoy her role in opposition for a very , very long time indeed . I now serve with the high ever number of labour black man in Parliament — that be wonderful . there be my hon . friend the Members for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) , for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) , for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) , for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) , for Preston ( Sir Mark Hendrick ) and for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) , and , of course , the Foreign Secretary , our right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) . it be amusing that , for all my frequent appearance and contribution in the Chamber since the election , I have be confuse for my hon . friend for Buckingham and Bletchley , who be tall and well look than I ; for my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) , who rock a grey suit in a way I never could ; and for my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead , who , consider he be 15 year old than I , have definitely win that one — I have it down as 20 year originally , and have to check with he so as not to age he . I take all that as a compliment . like my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , I want to acknowledge all the black staff in this House , lead by the Serjeant - at - arm , who have just leave the Chamber . over the past decade , I have be a local councillor and serve as mayor . now , as a Member of Parliament , I have have the honour of attend Black History Month event in local school , church and community hub . I have listen to people — child in particular — speak of their live experience good and bad , and to pensioner recall the story of their ancestor . the overwhelming feeling that I come away with every year at the end of this month be of how proud we be , and rightly so , of the black british contribution to our community . there have be much talk of reparation in recent day . I want that conversation to start with a british Government who take the Commonwealth seriously . that conversation start by ensure that we reflect on the legacy of the british empire and our collective and complicated history . we do that by create a level playing field in work , health and education ; by properly and effectively trade with the Caribbean and Africa — as much as I love Australia and New Zealand , we must do more and go far — through a curriculum that tell all of our history ; and by establish genuine and real link between our leader . I hope that the Foreign Secretary and his team will lead by example . I want to see more ministerial visit to southern Africa , the caribbean and other part of the world , because on those visit we can show the respect that equal partner deserve . that would go so far in acknowledge the contribution that our forefather make and that the black community be make today , and would show that this new Government get it . this be a joyful and hopeful debate , and I have enjoy every single speech , include that of the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) — although I will pick up on a couple of thing with he outside the Chamber . it have show the good of we . my be here be not inevitable , but it be possible . the fact that I be here show how far the black community have come , and remind we of what we need to do to lift everybody up and of how we must all hold on to the age - old value of anything be possible in our United Kingdom . it be a privilege to speak in the debate and to follow such inspiring and educational speech . the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) have just leave the Chamber , but she have be educate I for a long time ; I do my year 10 work experience with she a long time ago . when October come around each year , it give we a chance to reflect on the incredible achievement and contribution of the black community . of course , celebrate the black community should not be limit to only one month per year . as the chief executive officer of the West Bromwich african - caribbean resource centre say to I early this week , they celebrate all year — from jamaican independence and Windrush Day to music night and fiercely competitive domino event . I want to recognise the contribution of the black community in my area of West Bromwich , Oldbury , Great Barr , Tividale and Rowley . after the war , Britain need worker from across the empire to fill our factory , our foundry and our fledgling NHS . People from all over the world answer that call , include many from the Caribbean . they make their home here ; the root that they put down be now deep , and their contribution over many decade be broad . the theme of this year ' s Black History Month be reclaim narrative , so I will share just a couple of story from my area that speak to that theme . the first be about sport , and the story of West Bromwich Albion ' s " Three Degrees " . the 1960 and 1970 be a hard time for many in the black british community ; racism be rife and the National Front be on the rise . football be no exception , with game mar by racism and prejudice against black player and fan . around that time , three player at West Bromwich Albion be do something exciting . the Baggies , under manager " Big Ron " , be the first english club to field three black player consistently in their lineup . in the 1978 - 79 season , the talented trio of Cyrille Regis , Laurie Cunningham and Brendon Batson be an essential fixture of every Baggies side . the son of caribbean immigrant who come to Britain in the 1960 , they be among the first black player to play top - flight football in this country , write their own story of struggle , success and stardom . although that might not seem like a huge achievement today , three black player on one team be unheard of at the time . they be brilliant player in the face of the racism they endure — even sometimes from their own stand . at a time when racism in Britain be all too common , they break down barrier for not only black player but black fan . this week I watch a great video by Richie Anderson , a Smethwick boy , an Albion season ticket holder and one of my favourite voice on Radio 2 . Richie interview black fan about how much watch those player mean to they , and their testimony be as poignant as they be powerful . I will also tell the story of a lesser know , but no less important , local hero . I be lucky to know she ; she be one of West Bromwich ' s strong , trailblaze woman : Hyacinth Jarrett . Hyacinth have train as a nurse in Jamaica but do not much enjoy it , so when she come to England she apply for a college course in hairdressing . she be the only black applicant to the course , and she have to persuade they to let she take the entrance test . she pass the test , complete the course and open her business , Jarrett ' s Hairdressers in Bull Street in West Bromwich , in 1970 . Hyacinth run that business for 40 year , during which time she be a pioneer in train people in the art of care for black hair . over the year , her talent and expertise be widely recognise . she be invite to work with Birmingham College and the University of London , eventually develop a module on black hair that be add to the national foundation syllabus for hairdressing . Hyacinth be one of the early member of the West Bromwich African Caribbean Resource Centre , which be where I first meet she a few year ago . the resource centre and other local organisation such as the Kuumba Centre have contribute so much to the local community , and continue to campaign against the discrimination and disadvantage that black Britons sadly still face today . I be proud to have they , and so many other black - lead organisation in my constituency . I look forward not only to work with they in the year ahead , but to share their story , champion their achievement and help to reclaim narrative . they have earn — and deserve — their place in british history . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) and for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for make today happen , because it be an important debate . I congratulate all member who have give their maiden speech , especially my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) , who be formerly part of the south London massive — I enjoy be here with he . I say to my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) that I may give he a run for his money in term of be the human form of the United Nations , as I think I be the first jamaican - jewish member of this House . this year ' s theme of reclaim narrative be an important one , because the story we tell about ourselves be what our reality become . if we do not tell those story , other will tell they for we . for I , it be about recognise our contribution , our legacy , and our role in the story of this great nation — story like that of my grandparent , Ruby and Egbert Napolean Irons . like many other , when this country call for help , they answer , swap the sun - soak parish of St Thomas in Jamaica for the Henry Prince estate in Earlsfield . like many in their generation , theirs be a story of hard work , public service and sacrifice . my grandmother be a district nurse and my grandfather be a painter - decorator , so they literally come here to rebuild this country and play their part in its future . sadly , they be no long with we , but I hope that they be proud to know that their legacy have mean that Croydon now have its first black MP , and that they have an MP in the family . as have be say in the debate , black history be british history . my place in Parliament would not have be make possible without the Mother of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) ; my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ; and all the amazing black woman in this House who have make it easy for I to be here . I have feel welcome in this place . I have not feel out of place , or as if I do not belong here . that be only because of the outstanding people who have come before I . I end my brief speech by say that we must remember Black History Month every single year , because every year , there will be a different thing to talk about and a different theme to pull out . I would like we in this House to take time every single year to remember the contribution that black people have make to this country — people like my grandparent , and all the other grandparent whose grandchild be now member of Parliament sit on these Benches . I congratulate all my friend from across the Chamber who have make their maiden speech today . I particularly congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) , who give such a glowing recommendation for retirement option , although hopefully I will not need to think about that for a while yet . I also thank my friend for the contribution that have be make so far — for share their experience and story , and the meaning that they attach to Black History Month . we be in this Chamber to celebrate black change - maker past and present who have shine a light on racial injustice and help to shape a more equitable and just future . from every corner of the UK and the world , there be untold story that can offer we reflection and inspiration . I have be pre - empte slightly by my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) , but there be a little - know story from my constituency of Bathgate and Linlithgow that I be grateful to my constituent David for raise with I and my predecessor . while I be the first woman MP for most of the area cover by the new constituency , we can also claim the first black Scottish MP . I want to bring the story of Mr Peter McLagan MP to Parliament today . in the 1865 general election , Peter McLagan be elect and become Scotland ' s first black MP , represent the constituency of Linlithgowshire , which be now mostly cover by Bathgate and Linlithgow . to date , his portrait remain miss from the pioneer ' gallery in this place , and that be an issue that I hope to take up . Mr McLagan serve continuously for almost 30 year , and cut across social divide , support woman ' s suffrage and woman ' s right to education — cause that , as we know , be very unpopular with his fellow member at the time . none the less , he be a product of his time . his attitude towards imperialism and the circumstance surround his wealth , which he inherit from his plantation - own father , be reminder of the honest conversation that we must have about our history . we must be willing to learn — to understand the past in order to challenge the racism and intolerance of today . we be all historian in that respect . nearly 160 year later , there be still much to do to ensure that all our chamber reflect the community that we be elect to serve . on to the present . in Bathgate and Linlithgow , our black history be still be make . I will tell the story of an incredible black woman I have be fortunate to know for several year , Eunice Simpson . originally from Ghana , she have make her home in Blackburn , West Lothian . eunice always want to expand her horizon and do what she could to help woman , in particular . she want to build a network of support for those in need , but her life be turn upside down when , in her final year of university , a fire that rip through her student accommodation destroy her possession and saving , leave her future up in the air — or so she think . eunice be not a woman to be defeat . when she arrive in the UK , she immediately get to work put herself through the professional accountancy exam while work for charity across the Lothians . in the Bathgate and Linlithgow constituency , we be fortunate to have the West lothian african Women ' s Network , found by Eunice . it be a pioneering community project that support black woman in find their foot , grow their business , connect through culture and provide support to family . it have be hugely inspiring to watch Eunice build this group with the support of many woman from across West Lothian . I can genuinely say that every time I meet she for coffee and conversation , I come away motivated and want to do more . there be many great initiative , from business seminar through to black history education session in local school . everybody involve create a real buzz around support one another and be each other ' s champion . Eunice have reach beyond the african community in West Lothian by organise event that bring people together to celebrate our rich scottish and african culture . her work to foster great community cohesion and strengthen the bond of sisterhood be a real testament to her passion and her drive . a month ago , the west lothian African Women ' s Network hold its annual african - scottish expo in Bathgate town centre . it proudly display african culture in the heart of Eunice ' s home town . it be an opportunity to come together and enjoy music , food and dance . we welcome hon . friend to join the celebration next year at the expo in Whitburn ; I can confirm that the jollof rice be delicious and spicy . also a month ago , Eunice , whose future once seem so uncertain , become West Lothian ' s first black deputy lieutenant . lieutenancy , a feature of scottish life for 300 year , be pivotal role in grand ceremony and in bestow honour . those hold the position be even permit to fly the scottish royal standard above their home . it be a groundbreaking role for Eunice and truly well deserve . it be recognition of her hard work , spirit and courage . it give she the privilege of support the lord lieutenant in carry out her role represent his Majesty the King in West Lothian , which cover much of the constituency . eunice ' s story remind I that black history be still be make — not just by Eunice , but by the hundred of black woman support by the West lothian African Women ' s Network , and many thousand of people across the UK . it be a great privilege to share in this place the story of people like Peter McLagan and the history maker of today , such as Eunice , and to recognise the importance of Black History Month . through the Government ' s commitment to break down barrier , boost opportunity and ensure that equality be at the heart of every mission , we can tackle structural inequality in pay , housing , health outcome and so much more . we all have a part to play in ensure that the injustice of the past be not part of our future . I thank and congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) on her speech . she share an important story about Peter McLagan , and I will enjoy support her campaign . I want to refer back to the speech of my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) ; he will enjoy read his admission in Hansard that I look 15 year young . black History Month have its root in this country , in a powerful vision of education and empowerment . in 1987 , Akyaaba Addai - Sebo and Ansel Wong , staff at the Greater London Council — a Ghanaian and a Trinidadian respectively — recognise a press need : black british child be face an identity crisis , be reluctant to identify with their african heritage , and shrink back when call African . this realisation spark a movement to create time and space to challenge racism and , importantly , to recognise , educate , and reflect on the invaluable contribution of black Britons to our nation ' s history and culture . the history of Britain be incomplete without acknowledge the profound contribution of ethnic minority community . do my hon . friend agree with I on the importance of that change narrative , and the importance of the organisation in our community that change it ? in mine we have People Dem Collective , Everyday Racism and Margate Black Pride , which be put the story of black people in our constituency on the map . they tell I that in the modern curriculum review , we need to make sure that black history be not just about black people ; it be everyone ' s history , and it should be part of the curriculum . I remind the hon . Lady that intervention need to be short . she will have an opportunity to make a speech in due course . I thank my hon . friend for her powerful intervention about the important and necessary allyship of those organisation . it be of fundamental importance that we empower they and help they to lift other up , as my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme make clear early . the story of ethnic minority community be not footnote ; they be integral chapter in our national history . from Claudia Jones , pioneer of the West Indian Gazette and the Notting Hill carnival , to Paul Stephenson and Roy Hackett , who lead the Bristol bus boycott in 1963 , to Laurie Cunningham , the first black cap England football player from our very own Leyton Orient , british history be enrich by the life and contribution of people of colour . to overlook these contribution be to erase a vital part of our collective history . as the author Zadie Smith have say , when you erase people ' s history , you erase their humanity . recognise black british history be essential for build a truly inclusive society . it be in this spirit of inclusivity that I will carry on . black History Month be an opportunity to recognise the diversity and interconnectedness of the people and culture that shape modern Britain . one of the most important aspect of that be remember the long and proud tradition of black and asian servicemen and woman who have defend this nation with valour and distinction . as we know , soldier from Africa , the Caribbean and the indian subcontinent make significant contribution to Britain ' s effort in both world war . I want to remember in particular the contribution of our aviator , such as squadron leader Mohinder Singh Pujji , an indian RAF pilot who fly Hurricanes and Spitfires during the Battle of Britain . I would also like to share the story of the jamaican squadron — the pilot of the Caribbean , as we like to remember they . there be so many brave man and woman like Mohinder and the pilot of the Caribbean who play a vital role in secure our freedom . their contribution be crucial , but be often overlook . we will remember they next month on Remembrance Sunday . in recent year , many of our reflection on Black History Month have centre on the story of the Windrush generation , but their intrinsic link with the history of the Royal Air Force be not always recognise . many of those who arrive on the Empire Windrush and subsequent ship be not stranger to Britain in any sense . in fact , they be former RAF service personnel return to our country — the country they have defend just a few year before . I wish to share with the House some of the story of these remarkable individual , so that they be capture in our history . John Henry Smythe MBE , know as Johnny , be originally from Sierra Leone . he volunteer for the Royal Air Force in 1939 and serve as a navigator in 623 or Jamaica Squadron . shoot down over Germany in 1943 , he spend 18 month in a Nazi prisoner of war camp before be liberate in 1945 . after the war , Smythe work at the Colonial Office , care for demobilise caribbean and african airman . in a twist of fate , he be the senior officer on the Empire Windrush in 1948 when it be be use to take former personnel back to the Caribbean . recognise the lack of job opportunity there , Smythe recommend that the man be allow to return to the UK . that decision mark the beginning of the Windrush generation . he later become a barrister , a queen ' s counsel and Sierra Leone ' s Attorney General . he die in 1992 at the age of 82 . Sam King MBE be originally from Jamaica . he have serve in the RAF during world war two . join in 1944 , after respond to an advertisement in Jamaica ' s Daily Gleaner newspaper , King arrive in Greenock , Scotland in November 1944 , experience a shocking temperature drop from 23 º C in Jamaica to 4 º c on his arrival . after three month of training at RAF Hunmanby Moor in Filey , Yorkshire , he be post to RAF Hawkinge , near Folkestone in Kent , where he serve as an aircraft engineer . King be later promote and receive further training at RAF Locking in Somerset . he have several more posting , finish his wartime service at Dishforth , in Ripon , Yorkshire . after return to the UK in 1948 , Sam re - enlisted in the RAF , serve until 1953 . later in life , Sam become a drive force in the british caribbean community . he co - found the Windrush Foundation and become the first black mayor of Southwark in 1983 . Sam die in 2016 at the wonderful age of 90 . have check through Hansard , I can see that his contribution have rightly be recognise before by several parliamentarian , both in this place and the other , who have the honour of be his good friend . Prince Albert Jacob , know as Jake , be bear in Trinidad in 1925 and volunteer for the Royal Air Force at 17 year of age in 1943 . during world war two , Jake repair plane in America and in England , serve at basis in Kirkham , Burtonwood and Carlisle . in 1948 he marry his wife Mary , an english woman , despite face racial prejudice from her family . Jake settle in the Black Country and later in Knowle , build a life in post - war Britain . although promise medal for his wartime service , Jake only receive his war medal , defence medal and veteran badge in February 2023 , at the age of 97 . that be a stark reminder of the often overlook contribution of servicemen of colour . I have the pleasure of meet Jake at the RAF ' s 75th anniversary celebration for Windrush at Edgbaston in June 2003 . there be rightly a grow recognition of the Windrush generation ' s significance in british history , but there be more we can do to permanently fuse that into our common understanding of who we be and where we come from . I thank Micah , the RAF ' s ethnic minority network and the air historical branch for share and preserve these story . I also thank the RAF for lift the black bar , allow these people to serve our country . these man and woman make a conscious choice to return to Britain . they see opportunity to use their skill to forge a well life for themselves and their family . their decision be an act of agency — a deliberate choice to improve their circumstance while contribute to Britain ' s post - war recovery . that story of service , migration and contribution resonate deeply with many of we . that be the conscious decision that my mother make : to come to this country and build a life for her family . I stand here 47 year later as a proud Zambian and Londoner with a decorate RAF career , represent my constituency as its first black MP . I aim to stand as a shine example of agency and opportunity for all the young people in Leyton and Wanstead , contribute to our shared history alongside those from the Windrush generation who have RAF tie . I want to finish by reflect on what it mean to have people who reflect so many strand of our national story here in this place . from the pioneer indian parliamentarian Dadabhai Naoroji , who be elect as the Liberal MP for Finsbury Central in 1892 , to the groundbreaking election of my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) as our first black woman MP in 1987 , we have see significant progress . in 2010 there be 27 ethnic minority mps ; by 2019 that number have rise to 66 , 10 % of all mp . as of July 2024 , we stand at 90 mp from ethnic minority background and , critically , 50 of that number be woman . representation be about ensure that the diverse voice and experience of our nation be hear in the Chambers where decision affect all our life be make . as we all celebrate Black History Month , let we recommit to ensure that the diversity we see in our street , our workplace and all our constituency be reflect in these hall of power . recognise this share history make it all the more crucial to address the Windrush scandal , which continue to demand redress , and I welcome my hon . friend the Minister ' s recognition of that and movement towards do so . as we know , people with story like Jake ' s , Sam ' s and John ' s be devastate just a few short year ago due to policy and failure originate from this place . they lose their job , their home , their access to healthcare and , in some case , their right to remain in the country they have call home . the Windrush compensation scheme be alarmingly slow and complex , and the compensation meagre . the Home Office ' s failure under the previous Government to fully implement all the recommendation of Wendy Williams ' Windrush lesson learn review far compound this injustice . as we stand here in 2024 , it be clear that the Windrush scandal be not a closed chapter in our history but an ongoing struggle for justice and recognition , and I welcome our renew commitment to right these wrong . as we reflect on the Windrush generation ' s contribution and struggle , we have an opportunity to recognise the ongoing value of migration to our country . in community such as Leyton and Wanstead , and Plumstead and Woolwich , where I grow up , we see the positive impact of immigration every day in our local bus , school and GP service . from our family - run shop to dedicated new NHS staff and the entrepreneurial people - to - people link we have to fast - grow country , our openness and interconnection with the world continue to enrich and strengthen our local area and the nation as a whole . I thank my hon . friend for let I intervene on he during this brilliant speech . do he agree that our diversity be often our strength and that , as in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield , the diversity of our community have provide people with a great sense of culture , community and togetherness , and bring a great amount of economic growth ? absolutely . I thank my hon . friend for his powerful and significant intervention . in particular , diversity be the strength of we 412 member on the Labour Benches . manage migration bring skill , innovation and resilience to our workforce and society . the courage to leave one ' s home , the determination to overcome obstacle and the willingness to contribute and become part of a new society be quality that have always strengthen Britain and will continue to do so . in my view , this be about recognise the contribution of people from all our community . our history be a rich mosaic reflect countless culture , experience and contribution , from the Windrush generation to more recent immigration , and from long - stand minority group to newcomer who now call Britain home . black History Month must provide we with a vital opportunity for education and progress . these reflection be not always pleasant , and we must recognise our failing and injustice , as my good friend Stuart Lawrence and his mother will tell we . black History Month challenge we to confront the whole truth about our past ; celebrate our achievement , which be often overlook ; and renew our commitment to build a more just and inclusive society for the benefit of we all . I congratulate all member who have make their maiden speech today , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) , who express his wish to advocate for people with disability . I be sure that he and all member here today will want to add that we must consider the additional challenge face by people in the black community who be live with disability . I commend all hon . member for their contribution during this debate on Black History Month . I say that not just because I have enjoy hear their view and local history , but because the very fact that this House be consider black british history today show how far we have come as a nation . that be not to say that we shy away from the complex past and significant injustice , include that of the misdirect reparation mention by my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) — to my shame , I only learn about that today as she speak . nor should we shy away from the challenge still face today , include the shocking maternal mortality rate in the black community , which be mention by the Minister and my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) . I want to use my contribution to highlight not just individual , but the community that have give so much to my constituency of Stoke - on - Trent South , to Staffordshire and to our country . please indulge I as I speak about people and place that extend beyond the boundary of my own constituency , because the impact of the black british community spread far beyond the line draw by the Boundary Commission . to begin with , I want to pay tribute to the many people of the Windrush generation who travel across an ocean to make their home in Staffordshire and Stoke - on - Trent , who not only help to rebuild our nation after the second world war , but continue to contribute in every field to the diverse tapestry that be Britain . no account of the black british history of Stoke - on - Trent would be complete without mention of the great Doug Brown . initially train as a physiotherapist to support wound world war two soldier , as well as be the physio for the great Potters — that be Stoke City football club to my hon . friend — Doug go on to give his skill to our NHS before a 20 - year career in Stoke city council . he serve twice as Lord Mayor , meet everyday people and monarch alike , and treat all with candour and humility . Doug Brown be a proper Stokie . I feel a statue come on . Doug Brown ' s son , Martin , live in my constituency of Newcastle - under - Lyme . my hon . friend will have my full support in her campaign for a statue of this genuine trailblazer and history maker in north Staffordshire . I want to take a moment to thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) for invite I to the Staffordshire Black Business Network ' s great event the other week at Keele University . that event — it be more than just a great evening — highlight not only the contribution of the Afro - Caribbean community to our local economy , but the importance and value of space that offer solidarity and recognition . I meet Paul and Jonathan Smith , from PPE4 Community CIC in Meir , who empower young people from low - income background and upskill they , source opportunity for those ambitious young people to be the next wave of great entrepreneur in Stoke . that be the crux of what this month be about : education , recognition and celebration . do my hon . friend agree that a crucial part of reclaim the narrative , which be the theme of Black History Month , be celebrate historic citizen of our own constituency ? will she join I in celebrate Olaudah Equiano , who set out his powerful contribution in his autobiography of 1789 ? he spend many of his day in the City of London and in Westminster , finally pass in Paddington Street . will she join I in celebrate his life and look forward to the ongoing celebration of the powerful contribution he make to our democracy right here ? I most certainly will , and I thank my hon . friend for her fantastic intervention . that work take more than just one month . from Monienne Stone ' s work with the Staffordshire Film Archive to produce a documentary preserve the memory and voice of the elder generation of Windrush and their experience in Stoke and Staffordshire , to institution such as the Ahmed Iqbal Ullah RACE Centre and the Black Cultural Archives which be mention early , the maintenance and education of black british history be a year - round job perform by people from every background . that act , the act of celebrate and acknowledge black british history , should be a share endeavour , just as the part the black community have play in this nation have be just that — a share endeavour . that be why I choose to speak today . to celebrate another community ' s history , culture and contribution should never be the exclusive responsibility of that community . it lie with we all . just as this country ' s past be write by a multitude of people , so too will its future . I say let we celebrate each other , understand our difference and embrace they . that be Britain at its good . I would like to end this speech by look back to an individual who have become a run theme in my address to this House , Josiah Wedgwood . Josiah understand that the fight for liberty and the work of racial equity be the responsibility of all in this country . his famous anti - slavery medallion grace the clothe of thousand across these isle , not sell for profit , but give for free . the understanding Josiah have , with the onus on look after your neighbour , fight for they when necessary and celebrate they where possible , be the spirit of our great and diverse nation that I want to share with the House today . with the leave of the House , I be very grateful to respond to the debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s official Opposition . I have be truly grateful to listen to so many heartfelt point , view and important history lesson , with member across the House championing issue , give insight and show the great work of their tireless community champion . there be so many reason to be optimistic for the future of this country , and the life of black people within our own constituency be absolutely reason to celebrate . I welcome once again the Minister ' s confirmation of the update on the Windrush Unit , the new Windrush voice , and the focus on honour contribution and address redress . I again pay tribute to the hon . member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) — it sound like she be as good at iron as I be ; a great excuse to get your friend to help ! — who speak as beautifully and powerfully as ever , and I enjoy hear her beautiful poem . I congratulate the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) on be the first black Liberal Democrat MP . he speak about the importance of enrich the diversity of this place , and Councillor Jenny Williams from his constituency , a trailblazer like many we have hear about this afternoon . he highlight that this be the most ethnically diverse Parliament ever , which we have all celebrate this afternoon . he also mention Lord Woolley , whose focus on social mobility mean that I have the pleasure of work with he during my time at the Department for Work and Pensions . it be an honour to get to know he . Margaret and Godfrey from the Tea Room rightly feature in speech from across the Chamber . he be not in his place right now — there be another gentleman in his place at the moment — but our excellent Serjeant at Arms be another true trailblazer in this House . Nigerian - bear with Sussex link , he be our first black Serjeant - at - arm . he be appoint in 2019 , and we be delighted to have he . the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , the hon . member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , speak movingly about the importance of intersectionality . this give I an opportunity to pay tribute to Helen Tomlinson , the first cross - Government Department for Work and Pensions menopause employment champion . there be a new champion in town , but she have some very fine shoe to fill . that work , reflect black woman ' s experience of not only the menopause but , as we hear , pregnancy and childbirth , be very important . my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) speak about a personal love story that overcome prejudice . he also point out that football have be mention a good deal this afternoon , but we have hear about heroine throughout the world of singing , artistry and culture as well , which give I a chance to mention one of my heroine , the amazing Beverley Knight . what a talent she have ! I have the pleasure of meet she many moon ago , in a different guise . anyway , my hon . Friend make a thought - provoke speech . he refer to the importance of role model , and say that , in modern Britain , race need not be any barrier to success . we all celebrate that this afternoon . I congratulate the new hon . member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) , who also represent a new constituency . in his maiden speech he mention Baroness Benjamin , who be an icon of the screen when I be grow up . he speak about be strong together , and highlight the disability employment gap and the lack of sporting opportunity . my dad be disabled for more than 25 year , and I recognise much of what the hon . Gentleman share with the House . he also mention David Bowie , whom it be always good to hear about . I wish he well in his new position . the hon . member for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) , who be not currently in the Chamber , speak about her Brighton and Hove black history group , and the importance of black voice and author . she also talk about an unsolved murder and its heartfelt family impact , and I wish she well in find answer . the hon . member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) speak about the power of hard work and determination , and about be a child of the Windrush generation . she rightly celebrate black trailblazer and the progress that have be make , and mention one of her local trailblazer . she have truly make her mark in this place . she speak about the importance of Mary Seacole , and say that " dismantle the barrier " should be the guide message . I think we all agree with that . the hon . member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) , the first black Member for his constituency , speak about the importance of mentor , of black pioneer , of black excellence in music , and of economic prosperity for all . I think we can truly agree with that as well . in another excellent maiden speech , the hon . member for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) talk about the weaving of the fabric of black history into daily life , and about the importance of school council . congratulation be due to Mrs Hunter on what she have do for the Labour party and the hon . Gentleman will continue to do . I welcome he to this place . there be a potential second speech for he on Monday , in the debate on veteran and the service , and he can crack on make his mark in the House with that . the hon . member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) speak about the celebration of changemaker and be the human form of the United Nations — I love that . he also speak about be an actor , and about the importance of tackle online racism . he mention the slavery museum that will open in 2028 , give we an opportunity to celebrate universal suffrage and the struggle that unite we . I congratulate he on an excellent speech . I welcome the new hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) . the right honourable Dame Th é r è se Coffey be previously my boss , and I enjoy work with she . in her maiden speech , the hon . Lady speak movingly about the impact of dementia . neither my mum nor my dad know that I come to this place . I can not imagine the pain of have your mum here but not by your side on this journey , and I wish the hon . Lady very well in this place . Hers be a heart - wrench and poignant speech and a very brave first contribution , and I congratulate she on her success . my mum be from Newcastle - under - Lyme — that be excellent news , and I look forward to take the hon . Lady for a cup of tea so that I can get the low - down . can she tell we where in Newcastle - under - Lyme her mother have the benefit of be from ? originally , she be find on the step of the local vicarage ; she be a foundling . I do not think that I have ever admit that , but the hon . Gentleman have prise it out of I . importantly , he speak about the ladder of opportunity . there have be talk this afternoon about people be confuse for other member . I assure colleague that I be often confused for other . I always like to think that it will be for Kim Wilde or Debbie Harry — I have model myself on they , as the House may have notice — but it be actually for my right hon . friend the Member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) . I feel that I have well share that this afternoon . I could not be more pleased about it , especially give that she be right honourable . the hon . member for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) talk about Big Ron , the Baggies ' trio of skilful black player and barrier breaking . she also mention Hyacinth Jarrett , another local hero , who change the world of black hair care locally . we all need a good hairdresser , so thank goodness for Hyacinth . the hon . member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) try to claim the " human United Nations " tag , but there be definitely competition . she talk about her grandparent ' response to the call for help , which be similarly reflect in many other contribution . the hon . member for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) speak about Peter McLagan , who become the first black Scottish MP in 1865 . that be truly fascinating . he have a 30 - year career , focus on equal suffrage and woman ' s suffrage . as we approach 2028 , that be so poignant . the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) say that it be vital to highlight the role of black history in shape modern Britain . he speak about people of colour and black soldier , who have contribute so much . he also share the story of Jake , who be recognise so late in his life . the hon . Member give a powerful account of those who serve in this House and elsewhere . we then hear from another Stokie , the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) . I be pleased to hear about the Staffordshire Black Business Network , and she emphasise the importance of have access to cash and mentor to work with . when we be in government , a gentleman call Myles Stacey do a huge amount of work at No . 10 on social mobility , inclusion , access to cash and smash glass ceiling . I hope that the new Government will continue to build on his work and that of the former right honourable Member for Maidenhead , who focus on racial disparity . the Commission on Race and Ethnic Disparities conclude that Britain be truly a model multi - ethnic society . there be more to do and build on , and I do not want to paint an overly optimistic picture or disregard any long - stand issue , because it be really important to recognise that every country can make further progress . the opposition will always work incredibly hard to make sure that we see the progress that we want for all our community . as the hon . member for Brent East say so well last week , black history be british history , and I be so pleased to have take part in this general debate , which have be hold in Government time . once again , it be inspire by she . today have be a reflection of the fine time in this House , which often deliver inspirational , collegiate and determined conversation and debate . we have discuss our community and our strength , and celebrate difference , alongside the bond that truly bind and unite we . it be a pleasure and an honour to close today ' s debate and to follow the shadow Minister , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) . our path have cross on several occasion in recent year . I thank she for her contribution and her powerful summary of the debate ; I will not repeat it , but I support everything she say . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Erith and Thamesmead ( Ms Oppong - Asare ) and for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) for their opening speech and for the inspiration for this debate . I be incredibly proud that this be the first Black History Month debate to be hold in Government time in the Chamber — long may that continue . the shadow Minister say that it be an example of the House at its good . I agree : it have be one of the fine debate that I have hear in a long time . we can probably all agree that we have learn something new today . I pay tribute to colleague who have make maiden speech . my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) outline a very star - stud labour history in his speech , but he also tell a powerful story of his own experience that I know move the whole House . I be sure that all those great Labour figure and all his predecessor will feel great pride in watch he take his place in this House and be a powerful voice for people with disability , and particularly child . my hon . friend the Member for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) make a humorous but powerful speech that tell a story of family and of service in many different way . it be clear that he be a live tribute to the last Labour Government and to what we seek to achieve through opportunity for all . it be also very clever of he to talk about his campaign to improve his constituency ' s road while the Roads Minister be present to hear his advocacy . my hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Jenny Riddell - Carpenter ) make an incredibly powerful speech . she walk we around Suffolk Coastal , take in nature and biodiversity and give we a strong sense of her drive in her politic . she tell the extremely powerful story of her experience as a carer for her mother ; as someone who have have that responsibility for my mother , I can understand how much of a challenge that continue to be . I be sure that she will make an incredibly powerful contribution to this House , promote support for people with dementia and their family . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) and congratulate he on his achievement for the Liberal Democrats . he recognise the staff of this House , mention Margaret and Godfrey ; we have also have reference to Ugbana Oyet , our Serjeant at arm . I think that be an indication of how we think about this whole House — not only the pride we feel in now have the most diverse Parliament , but how we look to share the opportunity for career in this place , in every part of its work . I believe that hold this debate in Government time be a mark of how the new Labour Government be put equality at the heart of all we do . I be proud to have be appoint the Minister for race equality in our equality team , alongside my responsibility as the Minister for migration and citizenship . we have celebrate Black History Month since the 1980 , and it have move from the fringe to the mainstream across our school , college and workplace . our understanding of history be constantly evolve as new scholarship reveal new story , new narrative and new truth and enhance our understanding of the experience of the black community in the UK . we have hear from colleague across the House , include the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) and for Brighton Pavilion ( Si â n Berry ) and my hon . friend the Members for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) , for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) , for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) , for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) , for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) , for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) , for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) . their story , and those of their constituency and constituent , have enhance the House ' s understanding . they be important because they teach we about ourselves and our national story . the purpose of Black History Month be to amplify black history , not confine it to four week . this be the story of all of we . the UK have a unique history and a unique set of global relationship and identity build on our share language , our trade , our cultural heritage and our shared history — and we must be honest about our history . we must confront the difficult truth about the transatlantic slave trade , colonialisation , and racism at home and abroad . my parent be immigrant who come to the UK in the 1960 . both have be refugee as young child . we grow up above our family shop in Hounslow : we be a family of eight , with three generation live together . this be the time of the National Front , and racist comment be regularly experience as we go about our daily life . my family ' s community value , compassion , commitment to neighbour and pride in Britain contribute to my become the first woman ever elect to the constituency of Feltham and Heston , where I grow up , and the first female MP of Punjabi origin in the House of Commons . we have make progress . the Race Relations Act 1968 , introduce by a Labour Government , make racial discrimination illegal in employment , housing and public service . recent scholarship about the british empire have help our appreciation and understanding . we must understand the past to navigate the future . black History Month allow we to hear the voice of million of black Britons down the century . we celebrate some of the great : the trailblazer , the campaigner , the innovator and the pioneer , some of whom have be mention today . from Ignatius Sancho to Olaudah Equiano , from the Chartist William Cuffay to Mary Seacole , from Walter Tull to Claudia Jones , and from Bill Morris to my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) and Baroness Lawrence of Clarendon , they be all icon , leader and change maker of their time . black and minority ethnic community have make contribution to our politic , our public service , our NHS , our business industry , our armed force and our sport — in fact , every aspect of our public life . I be incredibly proud that we have the most diverse Parliament on record and that we have more woman elect to this House than ever before . I have cover some of the issue that member across the House have raise , but let I mention a couple more . the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Luton North , make a powerful point about intersectionality . labour ' s manifesto commit to strengthen protection against dual discrimination ; we will do so by bring into force the dual discrimination provision in section 14 of the Equality Act 2010 . People hold multiple protect characteristic , and we acknowledge that some people experience discrimination because of a combination of those protect characteristic . I know that you have do very important work on the matter , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to recognise the important work of Wendy Williams , whose Windrush lesson learn review expose systemic injustice as a result of previous government ’ action . the Windrush scandal see Windrush and Commonwealth community who have and have the right to live in this country be victimise because , through no fault of their own , they be unable to prove that right . as my hon . friend the Member for Erith and Thamesmead outline , today the Home Secretary have update the House in a write ministerial statement on the Government ' s progress in fulfil our manifesto commitment to the Windrush generation , to ensure that they quickly and efficiently receive the support that they deserve . the Home Secretary be at a Windrush stake - holder ' roundtable this afternoon at the Black Cultural Archives . additionally , we be reignite the vital transformation work from the Windrush lesson learn review to embed last change in how the Department serve all community . while we be in opposition , we make it clear that the Windrush scandal must never be repeat . the last government ' s response be far too slow and far too weak , and it do not deliver justice to those who be betray and fail . that be why I be also proud that we will appoint a Windrush commissioner , an independent advocate for all those affect , who can represent the view of the Windrush community and victim at the high Government level . the commissioner ' s role will be to oversee the delivery of the compensation scheme and the implementation of the recommendation of the Windrush lesson learn review , and to act as a trusted voice for family and community . for many people , file a claim can be intimidate and can require they to revisit past trauma . that be why we be inject £ 1 . 5 million into a programme of grant funding for organisation to provide essential advocacy and support for applicant who need additional help with the application process . we also bring in a new single caseworker process , which be implement in July , in direct response to stakeholder and victim feedback . it have streamline the process , improve consistency , increase transparency and remove duplication that lead to avoidable delay . it will give clarity and consistency to applicant , so they know who be deal with their case throughout the process . as promise , we have re - establish a Windrush unit in the Home Office , dedicate to drive forward the action need . the new unit stand ready to support the Windrush commissioner , when appoint . we be determined to ensure the renew work drive endure change that matter to the Windrush community and have a wide impact across the whole Department and across Government . last month , I have the privilege of visit the National Windrush Museum with its director , denize Ledeatte . it be a new institution dedicate to collect and preserve the story of the Windrush generation . the passion of those I meet , include Windrush pioneer , be match only by the last impact that I know the museum , its deep research and these story will have on future generation . I look forward to attend the Windrush National Organisation conference tomorrow . we stand on the shoulder of giant , and we do so to build a well and more inclusive future for all . I be proud that our Bill on equality in race and disability will mandate ethnic pay gap report for large employer , help to tackle inequality and discrimination in the workplace . our Employment Rights Bill , which we introduce within our first 100 day , will end exploitative practice and enhance employment right . as this debate have demonstrate , there be much more to do . we must take urgent step to close the maternal mortality gap . we must address the fact that black people be up to five time more likely to be stop and search by the police than their white peer and be three and a half time more likely to be detain under the Mental Health Act . we must also take urgent action to address inequality in housing , employment and education , which all too often disproportionately affect black and minority ethnic community . by introduce our Renters ' Rights Bill , our Employment Rights Bill and our Bill on equality in race and disability , we be work to address these issue . we will work closely with business and worker on develop and implement our commitment . we be work at pace across Government to develop and deliver wide proposal to address persistent racial inequality wherever they arise . we have put this work at the core of our ambitious mission - base programme to change this country , so that whoever you be , wherever you grow up and wherever you come from , if Britain be your home , Britain be a country that will value your contribution . it be where you belong , and we will ensure opportunity for all to achieve their ambition . to quote David Olusoga : " black british history be everyone ' s history and be all the strong for it . " question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider Black History Month . Petition - Fakenham Swimming Pool Fakenham need a swimming pool . I rise to present this petition on the Fakenham swimming pool , with reference to a similar online petition that have gain more than 1 , 250 signature . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Broadland and Fakenham , declare that local people in the Broadland and Fakenham constituency require access to adequate facility to conduct regular exercise ; far declare that since the closure of the swimming pool in Fakenham there have be limit facility in the area ; and note that the Treasury have be instruct to review the £ 9 . 9 million previously commit to fund a new swimming pool . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the resource need of the new swimming pool and 3 g sport pitch in Fakenham , Norfolk , whilst undertake its funding review , and to retain the funding previously commit . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003014 ] Temporary Accommodation Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) I be so grateful to have the opportunity to bring the subject of the crisis of temporary accommodation to the House of Commons today . I thank the Minister for her time and attention this afternoon . have first meet at the ballot box in Bethnal Green and Bow in 2019 , it be great to meet here again , at the Dispatch Box . it mean a lot to I to raise this issue today on behalf of my constituent Kelly and her family . Kelly be a proud mum of three , wife to Devon , and a fighter . after be serve with a section 21 notice by her landlord , Kelly and her family be force to leave their home . she be determined to find a new home in the private rented sector but face so many barrier . one be that many landlord require she to find a guarantor whose salary bracket be not one share by folk in her network . another be that many landlord demand six month ' rent in advance . for someone like Kelly who receive universal credit , have six month ' worth of Eastbourne private sector rent in the bank — to pay so much up - front rent — would disqualify she from universal credit in a heartbeat . despite pull out all the stop to find a new home , have be displace from their previous one , Kelly , her three child and their stepdad Devon have be back into the corner of homelessness — into temporary accommodation until a long - term home can be find via the council or the private rent sector . this accommodation be too small to cater to their aspiration and their need , especially those of Kelly ' s awesome teenage son , Joseph . this be a combination that , by its very nature , be temporary and not secure ; accommodation that force family to exist , not live , and that could not feel far from a home . that be not fair . I have take up Kelly ' s case , and my team and I be work hard to support she , but what I find so extraordinary about Kelly be that in the midst of unspeakable hardship she be so often zoom out and reflect on just how broken the whole system be , and she have be a tireless advocate for reform it . a week or so ago , she say : " Josh , take I to Parliament , and we ' ll speak about it up there ! " day later , I secure this Adjournment debate , which enable we to do exactly that . I thank the hon . member for secure the debate . it be an important issue , and I agree that it be admirable for someone in such circumstance to pull out and see the big picture . to add to that big picture , in the borough of Hackney , half of which I represent , the forecast cost of temporary accommodation be £ 54 million this year , and there be eight primary school ' worth of child , equivalent to 1 % of our population , live in temporary accommodation . I be sure that the hon . Member would agree that the position be unsustainable , and I congratulate he again on bring it to the attention of the House . I could not agree more , and I will come to the cost of temporary accommodation later . the hon . Lady know as well as I do that the National Audit Office describe the situation as unsustainable . it need a resolution , which be why today ' s debate be so important . on secure the debate , I call Kelly , share the news , and she say in reply : " what need to be say be go to be say in the place it need to be say to the person it need to be say to . you be the right person to say it , Josh . " it be therefore so humble to welcome Kelly and her son Joseph to the Public Gallery . I hope that I be the right person , that I say what need to be say , and that I do not let Kelly and family like her down . with her blessing , I have share some of Kelly ' s story today . she be just one of the 117 , 450 family who be in temporary accommodation in this country right now . that be a 12 % rise compare with last year . heartbreakingly , more than 150 , 000 child be live in temporary accommodation , which be enough to fill 5 , 000 classroom . I want to mention the plight of child miss from school . there be a massive problem with child go into temporary accommodation and simultaneously lose their school place because they have move out of the area , or alternatively try to retain their school place in the hope of be able to move back to the area , and then miss school for a sustained period . I want to draw attention to that particular difficulty . as far as I be aware , at the moment we do not measure educational outcome for child who have be in temporary accommodation . would the hon . member encourage we to start do that ? I absolutely would encourage that . there need to be more co - ordination between local authority , educational setting and health and care setting . many have advocate for a notification system in order to aid the knowledge of those situation , so that they can be address . the circumstance be devastating , and we hear from hon . member who have make intervention that that be the case in their patch too . shelter estimate that more than two third of people in temporary accommodation have inadequate access to basic facility — to cook , for example . many food bank , include mine in Eastbourne , supply kettle pack , because many family in temporary accommodation be unable to cook or heat the food that they get from a food bank in any other way . isolation be also a consequence , especially for those who be place in temporary accommodation mile away from their support network , or where the rule of their accommodation ban visitor . most shockingly , accord to the Shared Health Foundation analysis of the national childhood mortality database , temporary accommodation have be a contribute factor in the death of 42 infant since 2019 . we can not go on like this . not only be that unacceptable on a human level , but as I say early , the National Audit Office have be clear that the situation be unsustainable for local authority — especially mine in Eastbourne . in my hometown , the number of family in temporary accommodation have double since 2019 . that , combine with our food bank become the busy Trussell Trust food bank in the country — it distribute more food parcel per head than any other in the UK — lead to my campaign to declare a cost of live emergency in Eastbourne . it be the first place in the UK to do so , and that unlocked emergency support for those struggle most . the surge in temporary accommodation lead to the financial cost to the council jump from £ 2 . 2 million in 2019 to the £ 5 million project for this year . I thank the hon . gentleman for his indulgence in give way again . he be right to cite the National Audit Office ' s excellent work to shine a light on the issue . do he agree that if we turn those many million spend on temporary accommodation into money spend on good - quality affordable social housing , we would go a long way towards solve this problem ? the hon . Lady have a crystal ball , because she have again pre - empte something I will say later . I absolutely agree , and I commend her work in her former role as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , which I know take a deep interest in this matter . cost in Eastbourne have skyrocket . in fact , the council have say that 49p of every £ 1 that the council collect in its share of council tax be currently spend on temporary accommodation . as a result , Eastbourne borough council have be force to consult on incredibly tough saving decision to avoid issue a section 114 notice , and the picture be similar in other council . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the decision by the last Conservative Government to freeze local housing allowance for temporary accommodation claimant at 2011 rate be cause increase pressure on local authority , such as mine in Ashford ? there be a lot of clairvoyance and telepathy go on here , because I will also refer to that matter later . we absolutely need to consider what be go on with LHA rate , which have be freeze at the same level since 2011 — a different era . the Local Government Association say that local authority in England have spend £ 2 . 29 billion on temporary accommodation — a 29 % increase on the previous year , and 300 % since 2015 — and one in four council say that they be likely to need emergency government support to avoid a section 114 notice . so what be the solution ? first and foremost , we must urgently improve condition for family in temporary accommodation , such as Kelly ' s . they should be entitle to essential facility , and every effort must be make to prevent they from be displace from their community , support network and the advice they need and deserve . council need emergency support to help they to avert imminent financial crisis . Eastbourne borough council leader Stephen Holt , who be also in the Public Gallery , lead an emergency summit last year after which 118 other cross - party council leader write to the previous Chancellor with proposal for emergency support . those proposal fall on deaf ear , so I draw the Minister ' s attention to that letter now . it include proposal to uprate LHA rate with a view to update they from their outdated 2011 level . we also need to address the appalling practice of people opportunistically rent private rent sector home for the sole purpose of immediately sub - let they to council , at an inflated rate , so they can be use as temporary accommodation . that be contribute to the inflation . beyond that , the Government must urgently publish a strategy to end homelessness in all its form as soon as possible . that must involve build more home , especially social housing . my hon . friend mention that 150 , 000 child be grow up in temporary accommodation . do he agree that the health and educational outcome of those child be adversely affect by their be in temporary accommodation , but the risk of move reduce their chance to have a settle community and build up lifelong friendship ? by develop more social home with social rent , we would be able to give people secure tenure , and by remove hope value in development land parcel , we could develop more and cheap social housing , reduce the economic pressure on the Government . my hon . friend be absolutely right , which be why I be proud that the liberal Democrats have be campaign for Britain to build 150 , 000 social home a year ; that be in our manifesto . have grow up in social housing , I be especially proud of that commitment . to conclude , I say to Kelly that I hope I have say what need to be say , in the place that it need to be say in , and to the person it need to be say to . on behalf of all family in temporary accommodation , and all those who would otherwise find themselves there in the future , I make a plea to the Government : honour their experience with reform , and dignify their humanity with action . please do not let we and our council down . this Government be our last hope . I thank the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) for give I the opportunity to contribute to his debate . I congratulate he on secure a debate on this extremely important topic . I agree with much of what he have say , and how he have highlight the problem that we face . my local authority of Newham face an absolute crisis in temporary accommodation ; the situation be one of the bad in the country . to give the House some indication of where we be , there be 6 , 700 household in temporary accommodation in Newham , which be more than in any other local authority . that number be grow by around 30 household a month . one in 20 home in Newham be now temporary accommodation . the cost of temporary accommodation for next year will be £ 72 million , add £ 31 million to the council ' s budget overspend . homeless application this year be up by 26 % , which add to the borough ' s waiting list — there be now 38 , 000 people wait for housing . while Chelmsford city council ' s figure can not match those give by the hon . member , they be still stark . it be terrible to see how much they have change over recent year . do he agree that many council around the country face this issue ? in my constituency , the percentage of the council ' s core spending that go on temporary accommodation go up from 5 . 62 % in 2020 to 24 . 44 % in September 2024 . the number of case in 2020 be 256 , but we be now look at 500 case . it be a massive increase that be very difficult for council to cope with . the hon . Lady make a valuable point . the figure be hard to believe ; sometimes I have to check that I have not misread they or add a zero . as she highlight , the issue affect council across the country and seriously add to their financial problem . this be clearly unaffordable and unsustainable , even in the short term . we desperately need support , so that we can deal with the impact on council ' budget ; they face huge pressure already . as the hon . member for Eastbourne point out through the example of Kelly , his constituent who be in the Public Gallery , the issue be the impact on family . since the cost of living crisis begin , when the supply of temporary accommodation slump and demand soar in my borough , my advice surgery have see a massive increase in casework . People have come to see we who have be live for month in a hotel room — a perfectly decent hotel room for someone stay three or four day , but not for a family of four or five people for month on end . they be live in a single room without cooking facility . the impact on the parent ' mental health and the child ' s physical health and educational opportunity be really quite serious . it be difficult to deal with the sheer number . I thank my hon . friend and neighbour for give way . I be old enough to remember when bed and breakfast be commonly use for household who could not get permanent accommodation . that be rightly deal with because it be a scourge on modern society . do my hon . friend agree that we be now slip massively backwards because of the number he outline , and that we need to find a quick solution , in order to support our constituent ? my hon . friend be exactly right . we have go back from people in temporary accommodation live in flat to hotel be the only option . my council be desperately seek alternative solution , but the sheer scale of the problem make that very difficult . as a fellow east London MP , the Minister will understand the problem and the issue that we face . I ask the Government to look urgently at financial support in the short term , so that we can try to deal with the immediate crisis , but we also need a long - term solution — a financial solution to help council through these difficulty , and a long - term solution , a way to build social housing . my council be one of those pioneer the building of new social housing , but in the grand scheme of thing , we be effectively talk penny packet , give the scale of the issue that we need to deal with . I appreciate that we inherit this crisis . it have be exacerbate by the cost of living crisis , and seriously exacerbate by the difficulty that council have face as a result of the funding settlement that they have have over the past 10 year . they be juggle 10 year of austerity and the cost of these problem . however , it be a crisis that we have to deal with . I be confident that we can , but it be clearly something that we have to tackle as a matter of urgency , not just for the sake of our council ' budget , but to help the people who most need help . I welcome the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) to the House , and congratulate he on secure this important debate on funding for temporary accommodation . as we have hear from he and other hon . member , this be such a serious issue . I know from my experience as an MP for an east London constituency that the impact that it have on child , family and the wide community be absolutely devastating ; sadly , it can be a matter of life and death , because , as the hon . member for Eastbourne say , the issue be the quality of housing as well as its supply . this Government be absolutely committed to address the current high level of homelessness and rough sleeping and , of course , the barrier face by those who be in temporary accommodation and need a safe , secure home to live in . I recognise the financial pressure that hon . member have highlight ; the soar cost of temporary accommodation be place huge strain on council . I look very closely at the correspondence between the previous Government and the leader of Eastbourne council that be share with I , and I be grateful for the work that council up and down the country have do . in one of my local authority , St Albans , we be at crisis point , and often it be family with child who lose out . the average waiting time be 31 week , but the average time for family with child be 43 week , because of problem with supply and financial pressure . we be also in an area where the cost of housing , include private housing , be very high . do the Minister agree that where housing cost be high , the impact on local authority be very difficult to deal with , as they often subsidise the high cost of private rent to try to support those family on the waiting list ? we have to take that into account . the hon . Member have highlight some really important issue affect the private housing sector — cost and supply — and the impact that they have in different area . I will come on to the action we have already start take to make headway on those issue . as we have hear , homelessness and rough sleeping have dramatically increase . in England , homelessness be now at record level . in March this year , more than 117 , 000 household , include over 150 , 000 child , be live in temporary accommodation . in the hon . member for Eastbourne ' s constituency , on 31 March , 373 household and 419 child be live in temporary accommodation . it be shocking that child and family in this country in the 21st century be without a permanent place to call home , and have to live in horrific condition where temporary accommodation be not of a decent standard . we all know of case where that be deeply problematic . I be very pleased that my hon . friend be in this post , because she understand the real issue . we have this ridiculous situation where family in my constituency in east London be be send to other part of the country , put pressure on the housing market and cause issue there . this vicious circle be cost the taxpayer — and household , our school and our community — dear . I be sure that she be move on to what solution may be available , and she have our support in find those . I be incredibly grateful , and my correspondence box be pile up with the mix of issue that my hon . friend point to . we need to work collectively to tackle these issue , because unless we deal with they in the round , one area ' s issue will be transfer to another , which I know be not the answer . we need to address those issue , but it will take some time for we to gather the evidence and work with member to tackle barrier . the Minister have speak about the importance of work collectively . council leader such as Stephen , who be in the Gallery , be very keen to do that . the Minister say that she have see the correspondence from he and other council leader . would she be willing to meet a delegation of council leader , include Stephen , to talk about the idea and proposal in that correspondence , if she be not go to address they ? but maybe she will , later in her speech . it will be really important to hear from Stephen directly about Eastbourne ' s situation , and to go from there . I will come on to what we hope we can do in the come week and month . all temporary accommodation must be safe and suitable for the household affect . intervention in place at the moment include our homelessness advice and support team , who be draw from local authority and the homelessness sector to help local authority address the placement of family in bed - and - breakfast accommodation for more than six week . however , I be clear that to turn this around , we have to tackle the root cause of homelessness and rough sleeping . we need to put in place last solution , rather than quick fix . for too long , we have see the lack of a strategic approach . the hon . Member have use his debate to highlight the devastating effect on his constituent . the story he share be a powerful one that we can all relate to — one all our constituent have face . hon . member have rightly raise the subject of the pressure on council finance . this Government be absolutely committed to reset the relationship between local and central Government , and work in partnership in the interest of those live in temporary accommodation and who face homelessness . we want to work closely with the different nation , learn from each other about what work , as well as with regional and local government . the Government will get council back on their foot by provide multi - year funding settlement , end the competitive bidding for pot of money and reform the local audit system . we have hear from numerous council that annual allocation be deeply problematic . the competitive nature of funding be really not helpful , and we need much more collaboration . we recognise that council know their community good , and with great stability , they will be in a well position to enhance local service and facility . I have see many great example of innovation and really effective work at local level , and we need to support those effort and ensure that they be scalable . local and national Government can learn from each other about the good model and good practice . how local government be fund be crucial in enable council to deliver the local service resident need , and it be also of course crucial in deliver on our mission . that be why we be committed to improve the local government finance landscape in this Parliament . the hon . member for Eastbourne and other have raise concern regard the different kind of financing mechanism and benefit subsidy payment for temporary accommodation . we appreciate that these be difficult time and understand the funding pressure local authority be experience . the Department for Work and Pensions continue to keep rate for temporary accommodation subsidy under review and any future decision on the level of subsidy will be take in the context of the Government ' s mission , the goal on housing and the fiscal context . spend plan for the 2025 - 26 period will be set at the Budget on 30 October , as hon . member know . follow the Budget , future funding allocation for homelessness and rough sleeping service will be confirm later this year . we understand this be very challenging for the sector , and we be work closely with local authority and want to continue to extend that work to ensure that we do all we can to relieve pressure and continue to support they . with the benefit cliff edge , do the Minister agree that those in temporary accommodation should be give long to be able to progress on to pay or have their benefit stop , so that they can build up a bit of a nest egg ? that way , when they move out of temporary accommodation , they be be set up for a chance to succeed in the tenancy by be able to furnish their home right from the very outset , rather than have to start from scratch each time and not have any fund to call upon . the hon . member raise the important barrier to employment that I know be exercise my ministerial colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions , not least as they look at tackle the child poverty challenge — another dimension to the housing crisis . he make an important point , and I hope we can continue to get those input from colleague as we make progress on the work , which I will come on to , that we will do in relation to the inter - ministerial taskforce on homelessness . on the housing funding point , we recognise the challenge with the cost of temporary accommodation , and early this year the Government confirm allocation for round 3 of the £ 1 . 2 billion local authority housing fund , which be expect to provide around 7 , 000 home by 2026 . Eastbourne be due to receive around £ 4 . 4 million , and this fund aim to ease local homelessness pressure , reduce spending on unsuitable bed and breakfast accommodation and provide safe and sustainable housing for those flee persecution . I recognise that , as other have point out , there be more to do , but this be an important part of the funding settlement that be currently available and be necessary in deal with the supply issue , although of course we have a wide agenda on housing supply . we will deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation ; we will build 1 . 5 million home over the next five year . we be also commit to abolish section 21 no - fault eviction , prevent private renter from be exploit and discriminate against — the hon . member for Eastbourne raise that and give a powerful example from his constituency in his opening remark . the Renters ' Rights Bill will give renter much great security and stability so they can stay in their home for long . the issue around safety and the decent home standard will be address through extend Awaab ' s law so that it cover private landlord . this will significantly reduce the number of poor - quality privately rent home and empower tenant to raise concern . issue around quality of housing be not address , and we need to make sure that that be tackle . we very much hope that the combination of provision we have already start will allow we to begin to make progress quickly . it be just over three and a half month — just more than 100 day — that we have be in power , but we be determined to tackle these issue . I know that some of the other issue that have be raise , such as the out - of - area placement of our constituent , be deeply damaging . family be move away from their network , from school , from health provider and from other support system . we be clear that if a local authority place a household into accommodation in another local area , they be require by law to notify the local authority of that placement . we have to build home in the area where they be need so that we can reduce the need for out - of - area placement . that be why we will keep our focus on the house building agenda . unless we tackle the supply of housing — affordable and social housing , along with other kind of housing — we will be stick in this cycle , and nobody want that . it be important and powerful to hear the Minister reaffirm the legal obligation on local authority to notify another local authority if they be place folk in accommodation there . Brighton and Hove city council have for some year be go ahead with placement in Eastbourne , but notification have not always take place . that have mean that Eastbourne borough council have not be in a position to understand the general support need landscape and how good to support those people . will the Minister share some word that might reassure Eastbourne council and remind Brighton council of its obligation ? I hope the hon . member be reassure by the point I have make already , but go forward we need to look at how we can enable much more collaboration between council and among regional government . the interconnectedness of these challenge mean they have to be address collectively . that be why from the national Government perspective , we will soon initiate the inter - ministerial group , chair by the Deputy Prime Minister . it will be work with Ministers across Government to take action on homelessness , look at temporary accommodation , rough sleeping and the wide agenda . we will be work with the other relevant Departments to look at such issue as health and the benefit system . those Departments have an important role to play if we be to bring an end to homelessness once and for all . in that context , we be commit to ensure that local government and regional government play their part , work with we , along with the charitable sector and the community sector . I have hear powerful story of the work that faith organisation do to support those who face challenge around housing and homelessness . their insight and their contribution need to be include as we develop solution to tackle this problem . the Minister list a wide variety of Departments , but the Department for Education be not among they . will she assure I that that be one of the Departments that she intend to co - ordinate with ? I be sure that it be . absolutely . I be give example , not an exhaustive list . I have already meet with colleague , as have the Deputy Prime Minister ; we work very closely with the Department for Education . there be a great deal of interest and enthusiasm at ministerial level , at official level and , we know , at local authority level and among colleague across the House in work with we to develop a cross - departmental , cross - societal strategy that focus on get result . of course , we need to deal with the immediate challenge , but we need a long - term strategy too . I want to reiterate that we be absolutely committed to tackle the root cause . I hope that we can all take hope and heart from the extraordinary work that many organisation do in community and constituency up and down the country . we have see the work do in local area by local authority and other agency , with multi - agency approach in healthcare and education , for example , and of course the work that many colleague have do here in Parliament to campaign and raise awareness of the plight of those who face homelessness . we have a real opportunity to get this agenda right , and in that spirit I welcome this debate . I really appreciate the turnout and the interest — Adjournment debate be normally attend by only a couple of people . it be crucial that we build alliance and use the insight of Members of Parliament , who — as I have find throughout my political career — be at the sharp end , try to support their constituent . I hope that colleague can see that there be a real openness in this Government to work together to tackle this challenge once and for all . question put and agree to . House adjourn .