Speaker ' s Statement before we come to the main business , I be sure the whole House will wish to join I in send our thank and good wish to Colin Lee , who retire today as Clerk of Legislation after 37 year ' service to the House . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] Colin have combine his formidable procedural brain with a modernising flair , such as the work he oversee in the Select Committee Team to ensure that all colleague be treat with respect and have access to fruitful career path . he be a highly value colleague , and I be very grateful to he for the sage advice he have give to I personally over the year . on behalf of the House , I would like to thank Colin for his long and distinguished service , and wish Colin and Brenda all the good for a long and happy retirement . I would just share with the House that Colin ' s favourite biscuit be Penguins , but he could never get the joke right . oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — Court Backlogs what step his Department be take to reduce the Crown court backlog . what step he be take to tackle backlog in the court . what step his Department be take to reduce the Crown court backlog . what step he be take to reduce the court backlog . what step his Department be take to reduce the Crown court backlog . what step he be take to tackle backlog in the court . what step he be take to reduce the length of waiting time in the Crown court . what step he be take to reduce backlog in the criminal justice system . what step his Department be take to reduce the length of time for case to go to trial . Mr Speaker , it be nice to be back on my old beat . this Government inherit a record court backlog . we have take immediate action by fund a record high allocation of 110 , 000 Crown court sit day this year . fundamental reform be of course necessary , which be why the previous Lord Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) , commission Sir Brian Leveson to propose bold reform , which we be now consider . I recently have the chance to visit my local magistrate court in Cannock , and I be tell that a major barrier to ramp up the number of sit day in both magistrate and Crown court be the lack of legal adviser . I be tell that many be leave the Crown Prosecution Service because the pay be often well elsewhere , but that mean have to cut back on sit time . will my right hon . friend outline what step the Ministry be take to increase the number of legal adviser in our court ? my hon . friend will be pleased that we be recruit more legal adviser and we be increase capacity in the system . he be right that magistrate court particularly be the bedrock of the system , which be why I be so appalled that the previous Government cut back our magistrate court so extensively . it be important that we support our magistrate to do their very important work . crown courtroom be sit empty for up to 75 % of the time . judge use to be book in trial three to six month into the future , but now they be book well into 2027 or even into 2028 , which be to save the cost of bring in a recorder at £ 830 a day . however , these case still need to be try at some point , so that be not actually save cost , just defer they . in the meantime , there be a terrible impact on complainant , and in fact on justice itself . what will the Secretary of State do to clear this backlog and ensure that case come to trial ? order . we have a lot of question to get in . the hon . Lady be completely right . victim must see justice be do in real time . that be why we ask Brian Leveson to do the second part of his review , on efficiency , which go to the heart of her question . some case be now be list for 2029 , which be completely unacceptable . how be the Secretary of State undo the harm inflict by the conservative party not only on the justice system but to trust that justice will be find ? the inheritance from the previous Government be shocking , and at the heart of it be victim suffer . what we be do be increase the number of sit day , which be hugely important , and I be very pleased to meet the Lady Chief Justice last week to discuss what more we can do . to ensure that we deal with that terrible inheritance , we will of course get on and implement the Leveson review . I wish the right hon . Gentleman the very good in his new appointment , but he be preside over a complicated system , in which , today , 74 out of 516 Crown courtroom be empty . will he comment on that , and on when the second part of the Leveson report will come into effect so that we know when action will be take on the great complexity that be yet to be evaluate ? the right hon . Gentleman be right that we have to build the system ' s capacity to use courtroom well . I can tell he that Sir Brian Leveson — I be very grateful to Sir Brian for come to see I , as Foreign Secretary , while he be complete his review because of my experience in the criminal justice system — be complete his review by the end of the year . one of the most effective step take by this government to help reduce the Crown court backlog be the record increase to criminal legal aid . few criminal barrister and solicitor will not help to tackle case waiting time . Scotland be experience unacceptable delay in solemn case come to trial , make bad by the inadequate funding of scottish legal aid by the Scottish Government . do the Justice Secretary agree that unless we significantly increase legal aid fee across the UK , the current criminal defence model be unsustainable and we risk the collapse of our court system ? my hon . friend highlight almost two decade of the SNP run Scotland into the ground . here , we have have a record increase of £ 92 million . on the day we introduce the Hillsborough law , it be hugely important to record that that be the big extension of legal aid for people who have suffer at the hand of the state in over a decade . rape be a heinous and despicable crime , with lifelong consequence for victim . some do not survive . accord to the House of Commons Library , the average number of day from charge to case completion be 363 day . what time do the Government think be acceptable for deliver justice for rape victim ? do they have a target ? what be it and what step be they take to reach it ? we must have swifter justice for victim of rape . when I be shadow Justice Secretary , I be appal that under the previous Government we get to a position where we have almost decriminalise the situation because there be so few prosecution . there must be justice , and that mean swifter justice . in west Kent , an initiative to share the resource of Maidstone Crown court with Woolwich Crown court be spread case into area where there be not such a backlog . can the Government indicate whether that be be openly consider in other part of the country so that we can spread the backlog across different area ? it be absolutely the case that where court be come together and be proactive , we be see progress . I look forward to look more closely at the example of Maidstone and Woolwich . my hon . friend be absolutely right that that be the way forward . of 221 people arrest for support Palestine Action , 162 be arrest under section 13 of the Terrorism Act 2000 . this prohibit people from carry article in public which " arouse reasonable suspicion that an individual be a member or supporter of a proscribe organisation . " even the protester who display those sicken picture of Hamas paraglider in the week after 7 October be each give a conditional discharge . will the government please look again at the Terrorism Act to avoid clog up the criminal justice system with people whose real motive be to support action on Palestine ? I be always happy to do anything — I do it in my last role and I will do it in this role — to ensure that anyone terrorise be convict . that be quite properly a matter for law enforcement and prosecutor , but I will examine the detail of what the hon . Gentleman say . I have meet constituent who have be victim of some of the most serious offence and be wait for year before the general election to have access to justice . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how I can ensure that my constituent have timely access to justice ? my hon . friend be right . we have to ensure that the system work for victim . under the previous Government , half of all magistrate court close , and in December 2023 , the Crown court backlog have increase by 77 % . we be deal with that — we have to do so as swiftly as possible . I will of course ensure that he meet with the appropriate Minister . with your permission , Mr Speaker , I pay tribute to my predecessor , who be mention on the face of the Order Paper , who be kill in 1940 . the Justice Secretary keep refer to the previous Government , and I sort of get that , but I remind he that the new Government have be in post for some 14 or 15 month — over a year — and at some point , that particular argument be go to wear very thin . be he aware of the extraordinary length of time that victim of serious sexual assault and crime must wait in the Shropshire court , particularly Shrewsbury Crown court ? it be double the 363 day that we have just hear from the Lib Dem Benches . what will the Justice Secretary do to help those victim , as well as the defendant who may , on occasion , be innocent ? the right hon . Gentleman and I be friend across this House . however , I have to say to he — and he should say this to his constituent — that under the previous Government , we see devastating cut to the police , with a reduction of 20 , 000 officer ; we see no building of prison at all , effectively — only 500 place ; we see the decimation of the Probation Service , which we be rebuild ; and we see a reduction in sit day . we have have to get on with all that . yes , we have make some stride in 14 month , but the devastation be big , and it will take a bit long . Probation Service what step his Department be take to support probation officer . what step he be take to support the Probation Service . we be determined to back our hard - work probation staff by invest up to £ 700 million by the final year of the spending review , and an initial £ 8 million in technology to reduce administrative burden . we will also recruit 1 , 300 trainee probation officer in the next year . the probation officer I have speak to be supportive of the early release scheme inasmuch as it be necessary to deal with the chronic overcrowding in our prison — a legacy of the previous Government ' s dereliction of duty . many offender on the fix recall scheme with a determinate sentence , however , be not be risk - assess before rerelease , which concern probation officer . in that context , can the Secretary of State indicate what measure he be put in place to ensure that probation officer be able to do their job with offender be release early ? I be with probation officer last week , in my first visit as Secretary of State — it be important that probation be the first place I go to because the work and dedication of those officer and the staff be immense . we be work with the Home Office to ensure that those risk assessment be do . my constituency of Chelmsford be an important hub for the justice system in Essex ; it be home to several court , include a Crown court . the independent sentencing review lead by David Gauke find that the reoffende rate for those who be homeless or rough sleeping be double that of those who have accommodation to go to upon release . indeed , I have hear example from charity of those on probation be recall to prison simply because they have no fix address . at a time when prison place be so limited , what step be the Justice Secretary take to ensure that such frustrating example of recall stop , and how do he intend to work with the inter - ministerial group for homelessness and rough sleeping to ensure that the Probation Service ' s work be not undermine by a lack of accommodation upon release from prison ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her question — no doubt she will be contribute to the debate a little later on our Sentencing Bill . that issue be raise with I by probation worker last week . it remain a big issue in our system , make bad by the previous Government . I commit to work closely with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to ensure that that housing be available . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I welcome my right hon . friend back to his rightful place . I remember be a junior shadow Minister under he — I will try to be less deferential in my current role . my right hon . Friend rightly say that the Government be recruit new probation officer to fulfil the new responsibility under the Sentencing Bill and to deal with early release . the BBC recently report , however , a shortage of 10 , 000 probation officer . how be we go to fill that gap ? the Probation Service be absolutely essential to the strategy that he be rightly follow now . my hon . friend and I do a lot of work together while the Probation Service be decimate by a badly botch privatisation that ruin such an incredible service . he be right that we will need to recruit more officer . the £ 700 million that we find be essential , and I will be look closely at the allocation over the come month . I wish to pay tribute to the probation officer in Northern Ireland , who do an excellent job . I have meet they many time , and they be magnificent . on many occasion they have to deal with young people who , due to peer pressure , find themselves influence to do thing that they normally would not do . restorative justice be one way to try to make thing well . be there a direct strategy within Government to ensure that restorative justice be use to rehabilitate young people and give they the chance of a well life ? the hon . Gentleman bring a lot of experience to these issue . what he reflect on be an issue face in constituency like mine . I hope he will contribute to the debate on the Sentencing Bill later today . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the new Justice Secretary and the Minister responsible for sentencing to their place . the Probation Service rely on an effective tagging system in order to keep our community safe , but the £ 300 million contract that the last Government award to Serco have result in lot of failure . I see some of they close up when I shadow Serco over the summer , include , for example , wrong address be provide , which mean multiple fail visit and a failure to tag the offender who need to be tag . will the Secretary of State tell we how much Serco have be fine in its contract , and will he commit to strengthen penalty so that we ensure that private contractor be not reward for failure ? the hon . Gentleman be right that Serco ' s record be poor and unacceptable . we step in , and have fine it . I can not say by how much , because it be commercially sensitive , but I can tell he that I intend to hold Serco to account . the job that it do be immensely important for public confidence . Court Estate : restoration and Renewal what step his Department be take to maintain courtroom . what step he be take to improve the court estate through restoration and renewal . for year , our court building under the last Government be leave to crumble and decay . this Government have boost capital funding from £ 120 million last year to over £ 148 million for this year . from read to Blackpool , we be build new court and restore old one . I look forward to Chorley ' s then . prestatyn justice centre and its hard - work staff provide a vital service to my constituent , but on a recent visit it be clear that the building need investment . can the Minister update the House on what the Government be do to repair and modernise our court estate , and will she look at what can be do to support our facility in Prestatyn ? my hon . friend be right that the Prestatyn justice centre be a valuable facility for her community . we have a number of project in the pipeline for Wales . obviously we must prioritise those court building that be most in need and where there be most disrepair so that we can bring they back into use , but I be happy for she to write to I about that particular case . since 2019 my constituent in Lancaster have have to look at a ring of steel fencing around the Lancaster courthouse in our city centre as it await maintenance work to make it more sightly . the fencing have be there since 2019 , so how much long will my constituent have to wait for this maintenance work ? I understand that people in Lancaster have be use the Crown court in nearby Preston , which be a more modern and accessible facility . we be undertake a consultation about the future of Lancaster Crown court , but I be happy to write to my hon . friend in more detail about the timeline . do the Minister agree that access to justice be very important , particularly in rural area , where sometimes witness or those offer family support have to travel to court appearance ? be it not vital to maximise accessibility for such people ? the hon . member be absolutely right . when we talk about access to justice , that must mean access to justice in every single respect , and there be no more obvious demonstration of that than accessibility to the door of the court . that be why we undertake continuous review of our court estate to ensure that it be physically accessible to all user . Prison Safety what step he be take to improve the safety of the prison estate . the safety of our prison staff be a no . 1 priority for I . that be why we be invest £ 40 million to stop the contraband that put our hard - work staff particularly at risk . we be also roll out protective body armour for use in the high security unit and trialle the use of Tasers for specialised staff . thousand of drone be be use to smuggle contraband such as weapon and drug into prison . locally , I have meet lead security company Preventive Concepts Security . the shadow Lord Chancellor be good enough to visit it in France to see its technology in action , detect and disable drone . what specific step be the Department take to roll out drone detection capability across the prison estate ? be it currently engage directly with private stakeholder such as Preventive Concepts Security ? I do see that the shadow Lord Chancellor have visit France . I look seriously and closely at what he be propose , and I propose to make some announcement in that area over the come week . last week in Brighton , the TUC unanimously back the " safe inside " campaign promote by the Joint Unions in Prisons Alliance call for urgent action against record - high level of prison violence and second - hand exposure to psychoactive substance . do the Secretary of State agree that current condition be quite intolerable for prison staff and that the Prison Service need to be hold directly accountable for the health and safety of everyone who work in prison , all of whom deserve to be safe inside ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question . we be talk to the union . I hope that the £ 40 million we have put in will be able to alleviate some of the problem , but he be right that the assault on our staff be entirely unacceptable . that be why I be commit from the Dispatch Box to make further announcement in the come day . I call the shadow Minister . I be sure that the whole House will join I in pay tribute to the murder prison officer Lenny Scott , whose killer be find guilty and sentence over the recess . it be hard to overstate the seriousness of the case : this be a prison officer murder simply for do his job . like police officer , we ask prison officer every day to stand up to some of the most violent people in our society . do the new Lord Chancellor agree that prison officer deserve the same legal protection as police officer ? the work that our prison officer do be incredible . the work that our prison governor do be incredible . over the course of both my career in law and my career in the House , I have visit very many prison , and I pay tribute to their work . I will certainly be look closely at this issue . I hope to come forward with more announcement in the come day . I be sure that prison officer will welcome any future announcement that the Lord Chancellor make . we have talk this morning about preventive measure we can take to ensure prison officer safety , but police officer benefit from legal protection in term of the consequence for murder they , with mandatory whole - life order impose on people who do that . the opposition will table an amendment to the Sentencing Bill that would give the same protection to prison officer . I think they deserve it , and I would welcome his support for that measure . it be a serious issue and I will certainly consider it . I know that the Law Commission be look at similar provision . Prison Rehabilitation what step he be take to support rehabilitative programme in prison . welcome , Minister . thank you , Mr Speaker . this Government be commit to tackle the root cause of reoffende . that mean invest in service that turn offender away from a life of crime and instead back on the straight and narrow . that include service in employment , accommodation and substance misuse treatment . I thank the Minister for his response and welcome he to his place . we have a prison population crisis , but rather than build or release our way out of it , we have to reduce reoffende . I recently visit HMP Bure in my constituency and see the excellent work it have be do internally to support prisoner in learn new skill and equip they for life after release . will the Minister assure I that the Government will support and provide funding for such programme ? will he meet I to hear more about the fantastic work of the staff at HMP Bure ? the Government be commit to tackle reoffende , and that include investment in service exactly like those that the hon . Member visit . we be build more prison place , because we need to . in 14 year the Conservatives add just 500 additional prison place , and in 14 month we have add 2 , 500 . alongside that , we have to tackle reoffende , and I hope the hon . Member will support the Sentencing Bill later this afternoon , which will do that . rehabilitation be a vital part of prison health programme , but when prisoner develop infectious disease such as tuberculosis , they can be isolate from organise programme such as rehab . give the risk that interrupt TB treatment can fuel antimicrobial resistance , what step be the Department take to ensure that prisoner receive both uninterrupted medical care and continue access to rehabilitation ? I will be talk with colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care on exactly that issue and on tackle reoffende , make sure that there be treatment in prison so that prisoner be rehabilitate . the sole focus of this Government be on stop reoffende and cut crime , and that mean work with prisoner . there be also the Sentencing Bill , and I hope that my hon . friend will contribute to the debate on that today . support for Victims of rape and Sexual Violence what step his Department be take to support victim of rape and sexual violence through the court system . it be vital that victim feel support at court . the Ministry of Justice fund the national witness service , which provide support on the day of trial , and independent sexual violence advocate can accompany victim while they be in the courtroom . Pre - trial , victim can receive support from victim liaison officer or from the MOJ - fund victim support service , and that be available throughout their criminal justice journey . may I welcome our new Minister and Justice Secretary to their place ? I have hear far too many story from constituent who have endure sexual violence and rape . they tell I how isolate and intimidate the court system can feel and how difficult it can be to get the support they need . will the Minister reassure I and those constituent that this Government be do everything they can to ensure that victim and survivor of rape and sexual violence be support in a timely manner ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question . she be a tireless advocate for all victim of violence against woman and girl . she will know that this Government be commit to support those victim in court through measure such as section 28 , the witness service and our victim liaison officer . to further support victim , the Ministry of Justice also fund support service such as independent sexual violence advocate and independent domestic violence advocate . we be also committed to introduce free , independent legal adviser for victim of adult rape across England and Wales , and I hope to announce more on that measure soon . my constituent Louise report her sexual assault to the police back in 2021 . she have have court date push back twice and the trial be now expect in December 2026 , nearly six year after report it to the police . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact of such delay on victim - survivor , who be also witness , and of the impact on the quality of the eventual court case ? I thank the hon . member for that really important question . all my thought be with Louise and , sadly , so many like she who be wait for justice . we know that justice delay be justice deny . that be why we ask Sir Brian Leveson to conduct the once - in - a - generation reform of our criminal court system : to ensure that we have a criminal justice system fit for the future , which break down the backlog on our court case so that victim such as Louise be no long wait for justice . last week the Justice Committee hear evidence about the use of special measure to support vulnerable or intimidate witness to give their good evidence . that be obviously so important in rape and sexual assault case . will the Minister reaffirm her support for the continue use of those measure , despite some debate about the evidence of their effectiveness ? I be pleased to attend the Justice Committee to discuss how important section 28 be to vulnerable witness and victim , and the difference that it make by allow victim of rape and sexual offence crime specifically to be maintain within the justice system , allow they to give their evidence in a safe manner that be more accessible to they . in a justice system where currently 60 % of rape victim be withdraw from the process because of the backlog , the wait and how traumatic it be , anything that help they to be maintain in the criminal justice system be worth championing . my constituent wait 18 month to face her abuser in court , only to be tell the day before the trial be suppose to begin that it have be postpone until May 2026 . how be victim of domestic abuse suppose to get redress and closure when they face such intolerable delay ? it be unacceptable that this be be allow to carry on in our court , which be why we be take that fundamental reform , because without victim we would not have a criminal justice system and it be important that we put they at the heart of this . we be fund independent domestic abuse advocate to support victim , to get they through the system quick . we be also committed to roll out more specialist domestic abuse court . that be one of the clear recommendation of the Leveson review , and it be something that the Courts Minister , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) , and I be work closely on to support victim , but I will happily discuss this far with the hon . member to ensure that we get this right for victim of domestic abuse . I call the shadow Secretary of State . child sex offender destroy the life of their victim , so why do the Justice Secretary , as Foreign Secretary , appoint the " good pal " and know business partner of one of the world ' s most notorious paedophile as our ambassador to Washington ? what message do the Minister think this send to the victim of rape and child sex abuse here in the UK ? child sexual abuse be one of the most abhorrent crime in our society . that be why it be this Government who be enact the recommendation of the grooming gang inquiry . that be why we have kick off the review into ensure that victim get the justice they so deserve . it be why we be today introduce a Hillsborough law — a groundbreake law to ensure that victim and survivor never again have to wait decade for truth and justice . the Minister could not answer , because it be simply indefensible and she know it . everyone in this House know it . everyone know it . on Sunday , the family of one of Epstein ' s victim , Virginia Giuffre , say that Mandelson should never have be appoint . I agree ; almost every person in this country agree . do the Justice Secretary not read the paper that detail Mandelson ' s extensive connection to Epstein after he have be convict ? or do he read they and flippantly disregard the crime and pain he cause so many ? will the Minister take this opportunity , in her role , to apologise on behalf of the Justice Secretary to Epstein ' s victim ? I understand the point be raise , and it be a very important one , but we be a long distance from the original question — it be about justice for victim . I be well aware of that and certainly do not need to be tell . we have a three - hour debate come up on that subject , so hopefully the Minister can respond . thank you , Mr Speaker . the shadow Justice Secretary say from a seat position that this be about justice for victim . if this be really about justice for victim , in the 14 year of his government he would have carry out reform to ensure that victim get swift justice . instead , he preside over a criminal justice system that be at break point , where victim be wait year for their day in court , and where prison be overflow and we be unable to ensure that there be always a space available . it be this Government that be ensure there will always be a prison place available . it be this Government that be get on with carry out the recommendation of the national groom inquiry . it be this Government that take victim and justice seriously . Funeral sector : regulation what step he be take to introduce statutory regulation of the funeral sector . on 15 July , the Fuller inquiry recommend introduce statutory regulation for funeral director . the Government recognise the urgency of the concern raise and we be carefully consider all the recommendation . the Government have commit to respond to the inquiry with an interim update on progress this year , and a final response will be give by summer 2026 . the Minister will be aware of the plight of Zoe Ward and Cody Townend , two mum from Leeds who tragically lose baby in different circumstance but who both go to the same funeral director , who do not treat their baby ' body with the dignity , care or respect that they deserve . despite the shocking detail of these case , the police find nothing actionable because the funeral sector be not regulate in any way . will the Minister commit to meet Zoe , Cody and I to discuss these horrific case , but also to talk about how quickly we can regulate the law in this area to ensure that what happen to they never happen to anyone ever again ? the whole House will be utterly horrify at the case of Zoe and Cody and what they have have to go through . dignity for our deceased should be uphold by all as something of fundamental importance . my colleague and I be commit to ensure that we get funeral regulation right , and I be work on that with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , the Department of Health and Social Care , and the Department for Business and Trade . I would be honour to meet my hon . friend , Zoe and Cody to discuss this far . support for witness what step he be take to support witness through the criminal justice system . support victim and witness be key to ensure that offender be bring to justice . measure be in place to support victim . we have already discuss those measure , such as section 28 and the Ministry of Justice - fund victim and witness service . the witness service provide emotional and practical on - the - day support to help prosecution and defence witness in criminal court across England and Wales , because we need they to be able to give the good evidence possible . I recently meet a constituent who have serve as a juror in a very distressing child sexual abuse case . she highlight the profound impact that such trial can have not just on the witness themselves , but on the juror , who may experience trauma and even post - traumatic stress disorder . although the appointment of the new Victims ' Commissioner be welcome , could the Minister outline what support be available for juror who have to cope with the impact of the evidence they see and hear in such distressing case ? the hon . Member make an important point . I would like to take this opportunity to put on the record my thank to everyone who do their civic duty by take part in jury service . jury be a cornerstone of our justice system and carry out an important function . there be support available for juror , and I be so sorry to hear of her constituent ' s situation . if the hon . Member want to write to I , I will happily look into this more and work with she on what more we can do to support juror , who do such a brilliant job . my constituent Billy Boyack see his wife Angela and son Stephen kill in a head - on collision . the driver responsible initially show no remorse and be already ban from the area under bail condition . he receive only a 13 - year sentence . how do the Minister intend to redress the unfairness in our sentencing law , with victim like Billy suffer such injustice ? all my thought be with Billy and the family for the horrific tragedy they have suffer . my hon . friend will know that we be debate the sentencing Bill later today , look at how we redress the balance here . the Law Commission be also do a special piece of work look at homicide law , and I would happily discuss that with she and Billy and discuss how good we can support they . reoffende Rates what assessment he have make of trend in the level of reoffende rate . although there be a long - term downward trend in the rate of prove reoffende , this country remain an outlier in that regard . that be why the Government be take action to reduce reoffende , especially among prolific offender . that include measure in the Sentencing Bill on short - term sentencing , community punishment , investment in regional employment council to bring local partner together to help offender into work , and the rolling out of intensive supervision court , which have have incredibly encouraging result so far . I , too , welcome my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Justice and his new ministerial team to their role . the Clink Charity have deliver life - change rehabilitation at HMP Brixton for over a decade , significantly reduce reoffende rate . indeed , its graduate be 64 % less likely to reoffend . however , the charity have recently be tell that it must compete in a commercial procurement process alongside large corporation to continue operate at Brixton . that risk disadvantage an award - win charity with a prove track record that be have a positive impact . do the Minister agree that this be unfair , and can he reassure I that he will review the situation to ensure that procurement process consider the excellent work already be achieve by organisation such as the Clink ? yes , I be aware of the great work that the Clink do , as be the Justice Secretary and the Prisons Minister in the other place . we will be review what have happen and be happen there in due course . one of the key way to reduce reoffending be to ensure that ex - offender leave prison have secure place to live and be not tempt to go back to a life of crime . however , it can be a consequence of early release that that be not prepare in advance . what action will the Minister take so that prison governor and those involve in the prison service ensure that ex - offender go into secure accommodation once they leave prison ? the hon . member raise an important point and challenge for the Probation Service as the Sentencing Bill come to fruition . I be with the Justice Secretary just last week meet probation staff . housing be a big challenge . I will work with colleague from across Government to ensure that we be up to that challenge . the hon . Member make a good point , and I will update the House in due course . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . it be my honour to take my first oral question as Lord Chancellor and Justice Secretary . today , the Government will introduce the Public Office ( accountability ) bill — well know as the Hillsborough law . it will create a new professional and legal duty of candour , place public servant under a duty to act with honesty and integrity at all time . it will be back by a new offence for mislead the public , and two new offence for misconduct in public office . this be an historic moment , but the credit belong not to the Government but to the family of the 97 , whose courage never falter , and to all who fight for justice after Grenfell , after Windrush , after the infected blood and Horizon scandal . this law will be their legacy . we can not rewrite history , but with the Hillsborough law , we can ensure that it never repeat itself again . I associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s passionate remark . some 71 % of people in the youth justice system have a speech and language need that may impact on their ability to access justice , but only a tiny fraction of those young people have receive any speech and language support . how be he work across Government — particularly with the Department of Health and Social Care and the Department for Education — to prevent those vulnerable young people from be disproportionately draw into the youth justice system ? I remain very concerned , particularly about neurodiversity in young people and how they fare in the criminal justice system . I will look closely at the youth justice system , work closely with colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care and of course the Department for Education . I call the shadow Justice Secretary . I welcome the Justice Secretary to his place . the only one in , one out deal that be work in the Government be the one for Deputy Prime Ministers . just last month , the country be cry out that the Justice Secretary must face justice after his scandalous failure to register a licence for fish . well , he think he be off the hook , but finally it be justice for Lammy . I know that he have a previous and rather traumatic experience with one John Humphrys on " mastermind " , so I hope that he be sit comfortably . how many foreign national be clog up our prison , and do he stand by the letter he sign that oppose the removal of 50 foreign criminal , one of whom go on to murder ? I will look forward to this . I know that the right hon . Gentleman be so good that my predecessor be promote , and that he be audition for another job . let I be clear : return under this Government have go up 14 % . I take a keen interest as Foreign Secretary . they will be go up far . I will give it to the Justice Secretary ; that be a well reply than the one he give when he be ask which monarch succeed Henry VIII and he say Henry VII , but it be not the answer that I be ask for . in fact , there be 10 , 772 foreign national in our prison , and that figure have go up under Labour . the obstacle to so many of their removal be the european convention on human right , which have morph into a charter for criminal . the previous Justice Secretary pretend that we could reform the ECHR , but the Attorney General , Lord Hermer , have state that that position be a " political trick " . be it a trick that this Justice Secretary intend to play on the british public ? I know the right hon . Gentleman be a corporate lawyer , but he really need to get into the detail . we be reform through the Sentencing Bill so that we can get people out of the country by deport they on sentencing . he need to get into the weed and look at the Bill — he can do well . I have to raise a harrowing case from my constituency . an 84 - year - old mother and grandmother report be sexually assault in her care home by one of the worker . when this be report , it be find that that care worker be already be investigate for a number of similar assault . the family have wait over a year already to get into court , and they have now be tell they will have to wait until 2026 . will the Minister meet I to review this case ? importantly , the family also ask , can we look at how we learn from this , to improve the system for other family ? I be deeply trouble by this case , and of course , I be happy to meet my hon . friend . it be hard to think of a more graphic illustration of what we mean when we say that justice delay be justice deny , and it be exactly why this Government be grip the backlog in our court , with record sitting day , increase sentencing power for magistrate and by propose once - in - a - generation , bold reform of our criminal court . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I would like to associate myself with the Deputy Prime Minister ' s comment on the bravery of the Hillsborough family and pay tribute to they for the success that have be land today . many of we across the House be deeply concerned that domestic abuser be weaponise the family court to perpetrate their abuse . effort to reform it have not yet be forthcoming from this government , and we need change . will the Deputy Prime Minister commit to legislate in the next king ' s Speech for reform of the family court , so that it support survivor and do not sabotage they any long ? we be determined to look at this lacuna for victim of domestic violence , and if necessary , we will come forward with further amendment or , indeed , legislation . may I associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s remark about the remarkable achievement of the Hillsborough campaigner ? last week I meet Soroptimist international member in Stafford , who raise concern about mother in Drake Hall Prison in my constituency . every year , 17 , 000 child have their mother go to prison , yet only 9 % be take care of by their father . where do those 15 , 000 child go , and what step be the Minister take to ensure that child of woman in prison be properly identify and take care of ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her really important question . I work with the amazing charity child Heard and see prior to get this role . I be determined to ensure that we do more to protect the child of prisoner . the Prisons Minister in the other place be already work with the Women ' s Justice Board to look at well way we can treat woman prisoner to ensure that they be rehabilitate . my team and I support many family navigate the special educational need and disability system , and one of the challenge be delay in get access to tribunal justice . as the Secretary of State get to grip with his new role , will he make shorten those delay one of his priority , and can he update the House accordingly ? the hon . member raise a very important point . we know that the success rate of appeal be high and the delay be severe in the SEND tribunal , which have a huge impact on child and family . we be close to the maximum number of sit day across all our jurisdiction , to bear down on those delay , but I will certainly take his point on board as we look to reform the SEND system . the formidable team at Aylesbury Women ' s aid report continue severe delay in the charging and prosecution of domestic abuse case . we be in touch about one survivor who live in constant fear of her abuser , who turn up at her house and tap on her window at night , despite a warrant be out for his arrest . what step have the Minister take to ensure that survivor be not leave live in fear while they wait for justice ? my hon . friend raise a really important point . the Sentencing Bill , which we will debate later today , have really important measure that will protect victim of domestic abuse and ensure that victim be at the heart of our criminal justice policy , as well as probation service . one of my constituent have be tell that their Crown court case will not be hear until 2028 , six year after the alleged offence occur . the delay be due to court closure and a lack of capacity locally . the Government should not need a report to tell they that they need to make more court available at more time and they need to fund our court properly . we have have question about this from around the Chamber already , so I will take a slightly different angle : what do the Minister have to say to my constituent , who have another three year to wait for their case to be resolve — three year of be unable to work and three year of uncertainty hang over her head ? the sort of delay that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent be experience be unacceptable . the consensus be that the delay be unacceptable and that we have to do something big and bold about they . this be a complex system , which be why we have ask Sir Brian Leveson , with his expertise , to tell we how good we go about that , but we will have to get behind once - in - a - generation reform . we be grip the issue now — we be make record investment in criminal legal aid and sitting day — but we will need reform as well . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for his announcement on the Hillsborough law . for decade , the family have carry the weight of injustice , and government have fail to act . today , the Hillsborough law will be lay before this House , but it must not be another false start . will the Deputy Prime Minister promise I that this Bill will be the Hillsborough law , and that it will emerge strong and not weak from Parliament and , finally , deliver justice for the 97 ? I be pleased to sign the 2017 Bill and to put my name , along with that of the Prime Minister , to the 2019 amendment . I pay tribute to the family . I make a pledge to they yesterday : we will see no watering down of the Bill . I call to mind Khadija Saye , who die in Grenfell Tower , and that be why it be such a privilege to steer through the House this important law on behalf of not only the 97 , but many , many other . it be estimate that £ 80 million be lock in disabled child ' s fund , such as junior isa and child trust fund , with parent unable to access they on behalf of their child . the constituent of my hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( John Milne ) , Andrew Turner , have meet no few than eight Justice Ministers and fight tirelessly for year to make the Court of Protection application process accessible to parent who be try to access the fund for their disabled child . will the Minister update the House on the Government ' s timeframe for simplify the process ? I be pleased to meet Andrew Turner and the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) on this important issue . we have to get the balance right between protect vulnerable adult from financial abuse while at the same time ensure that they can access asset that be theirs . it be complicated and require cross - government work , but I assure the hon . Lady that the impetus be there . far to Ministers ' early answer about waiting list in Crown and magistrate court , coroner court also have a large backlog . I have a constituent who have be wait nearly three year for an inquest to be complete . what can be do to relieve the pressure on grieve family who have be bereave and to speed up the process ? I have have several productive conversation with the chief coroner , look at how we can make the inquest process as quick as possible to ensure that the bereaved be support and not leave traumatise wait for their inquest . the Bill we be lay before Parliament today , the Hillsborough law , have many part look at how to improve the inquest process and it give more power to coroner . we be look at what more we can do on the reform of inquest . I look forward to work with my hon . friend and other on how to improve the coronial process . since 2021 , Chichester Crown court have be use as a Nightingale court to catch up with the huge backlog of case . as court delay continue to slow down our justice system , will the Justice Secretary please give consideration to make Chichester Crown court a permanent Crown court , which would be the only one in West Sussex ? I know the hon . Lady ' s constituency well , so I will take a close look at the issue . victim of sexual crime be understandably often traumatise . what step be the Government take to ensure the long - term sustainability of specialist support for those victim — such as the Calderdale WomenCentre , which provide support for victim in Calder Valley — in particular give the long wait for justice and the high demand for trauma - inform support ? may I put on the record my sincere gratitude to the WomenCentre for do all it can to support the victim of these crime ? support service be a vital element of ensure that victim and witness engage with the criminal justice system , and be keep inform about the uptake of their trial . we have ringfence funding to protect these special support service . we be currently go through the allocation process to ensure that we have support service at the front of our mind , and I will be happy to keep my hon . Friend update as that come forward . in July this year , alongside a cross - party group of parliamentarian and other , I write to the then Lord Chancellor seek a meeting regard improve gatekeepe and alternative dispute resolution in family court matter . I have not receive a response . can the Lord Chancellor give I the reassurance that such a meeting will take place ? yes , I can . Barlinnie prison be operate at 30 % above capacity , and his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Prisons be strongly urge Scottish Government action before the £ 1 billion replacement be finally build in 2028 . what step be minister take to avoid the costly mistake of the SNP Scottish Government in tackle the prison capacity crisis ? the SNP be run down Scotland and waste taxpayer ' money on the new Barlinnie prison — more than double the original estimate cost . we be do much well on this side of the border , and we be work with colleague to see what we can do about that situation . do the new Secretary of State for Justice recognise sharia law and sharia court in the United Kingdom — yes or no ? Sharia law form no part of the law of England and Wales , but where people choose to put themselves before those council — in common with christian , jewish and other court of faith — that be part of religious tolerance which be an important british value . will the Secretary of State join I in pay tribute to officer at Harlow police station ? during recess , I go on a ride - along and see their professionalism and dedication at first hand . I agree with my hon . friend 100 % — and not just because a lot of those officer be Spurs supporter . prison officer at Whitemoor prison in my constituency have raise concern that the recruitment process for staff be not work effectively and be unduly bureaucratic . will the Secretary of State write to I with his assessment and look at what change could be make ? yes , of course , and I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise that point . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I be sure the Lord Chancellor have read Baroness Harman ' s independent review of bullying , harassment and sexual harassment at the Bar and on the bench , which be publish last week . its troubling finding be primarily for the Bar itself and for the judiciary to address , but do the Government support the report ' s recommendation and what can they do to ensure that they be implement ? in typical fashion , Baroness Harman have conduct a thorough review into our profession and the judiciary . the judiciary and the Bar be one of the pride of this country , but where there be unacceptable practice and behaviour , it be right that we shine a light on they and demand that we do much well . as Ministers will know , some rogue builder take thousand of pound from people , wreck their home and leave they while they go on to do the same to other victim , yet victim be tell that no crime have be commit . will the ministerial team look at the notion of fraud when a pattern of such behaviour can be evidence ? we will be consult on a new victim code in due course to make sure that all these crime be capture , so that we can support all victim . I would be happy to discuss this matter far with the right hon . Gentleman . for six year , Lancaster courthouse have be surround by temporary fencing as it await maintenance . how much long will my constituent have to wait ? I be happy to meet my hon . friend to address her point and to give she the detail that she require . the new Minister state early that the Government have create 2 , 405 new prison place , but 1 , 468 of those be at HMP Millsike , which be part of the new prison programme that be announce by the previous Conservative Government . the 10 , 000 additional prison place estate expansion programme — include the houseblock and refurbishment programme , and the category d programme — have be downgrade from amber to red in the delivery confidence assessment , due to the programme ' s key supplier enter administration . what step be the Justice Secretary take to put prison construction back on track ? the hon . Member seem to be the last person defend the last Conservative Government on prison and law and order . the truth be that over 14 year , they build 500 prison place ; in 14 month , this Labour Government have build 2 , 500 place . we be fix the mess that they leave behind . voice — a domestic abuse charity in Bath — have create a guide to family court proceeding to support survivor to navigate the family court without legal representation . the pilot be roll out in the south - west and in Yorkshire . will the Government work with Voices to roll it out nationally ? I be happy to meet Voices to discuss that guidance . we have be work with organisation like the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service and CAFCASS Cymru to ensure that victim and survivor have the good support available when they be navigate the family court process . under current law , most instance of the sexual abuse of animal be not offence . not only be those act despicable in themselves , but give the proven link between animal abuse and child abuse , do the Minister agree that this dangerous gap be a miss opportunity to identify abuser before they go on to harm child ? I commit to look at that far . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . on 16 June , I ask a write question to the Department of Health and Social Care , seek an update on plan for a new dental school at the University of East Anglia . this be a hugely important issue for people in Norfolk and have be raise by mp across the House . I have be leave with a hold answer by the Department for three month , with no update in sight , and today we break for another month of recess . this be not an acceptable way for the Government to handle scrutiny . I seek your guidance on what avenue be available to I to secure answer from the Government on this issue of deep concern to my constituent . it be totally unacceptable to treat any Member of any party in this House that way . to be leave with a hold answer for three month be not acceptable . I be sure those on the Treasury Bench be now busily answer that question ; if not , please let I know , and I be sure we can do something more about it . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . last week , the House debate the incursion into polish airspace by russian drone , and there be clear cross - party unity on the need for the UK robustly to support our NATO ally . it be therefore deeply disappointing that the Secretary of State for Defence choose to announce the deployment of Typhoons to Poland outside this House . there be nothing more important than the defence of the realm , and the decision to deploy service personnel be of the high significance . minister have offer a write statement today , but this action after the fact do not live up to the severity and importance of the decision that the Government have make to deploy our plane and personnel . can you advise on how we can ensure that future statement of this magnitude be bring properly before this House ? I will be quite honest : this House should be treat with respect . the fact be that I be not quite sure whether the Secretary of State could have come to the House before the Typhoons be need — and I never want to put the House in that position . I can assure the hon . Gentleman , however , that I have have no indication that a Minister intend to come to the House to make a statement on this matter . quite rightly , he have put his point on the record . I take defence matter seriously , and I be sure that he will have be hear . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . thank you for allow I to raise a point of order , of which I have send give you notice . have you have an indication from the Foreign Secretary that the Government will either come to this House today , or that they will make a statement concern the UN independent international commission of inquiry report on the occupied palestinian Territories ? that report have confirm in horrify detail the act of genocide now be commit by israeli force against the palestinian people — against child : destroy hospital , destroy school and destroy life itself . this be a serious matter . if we be to continue normal relation with Israel , I think the Foreign Office need to explain why we be have those relation with a country that be commit act of genocide against the palestinian people . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . I have have no indication that Ministers intend to come to the House to make a statement on this matter , but he have certainly put the point on the record . I know that many other member be concerned . I will look to the Government to bring forward a statement on our immediate return to the House . if not , I be quite sure that other will , on our return , look to place before I a request for an urgent question . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . the UN independent international commission of inquiry on the Occupied Palestinian Territories have conclude that Israel have commit genocide in Gaza . despite welcome the israeli President last week , the Government have fail to make a statement , as we have hear . as the House be about to go into recess , can you advise I and the House how we be to seek accountability on this important matter ? I can not add any more to what I have already say . once again , I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench have listen to the right hon . member . I know that we have three hour for the next debate , but , quite rightly , this message have go across . I could not be clear : I expect the Government to come forward with a statement . if not , I be sure I can work with member who may wish to place an urgent question before the House . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . on 1 September , the hon . member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , now Minister of State in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , issue a write statement on the contingent liability from the fund decommissioning programme and Government support package for Sizewell C , which be due to be undertake on 1 October . it be a liability to Government and taxpayer that could reach up to the tune of £ 12 billion . that be a significant contingent liability for the public purse , and due parliamentary scrutiny be necessary . although the Minister state reason for not provide the require 14 day for scrutiny and withholding of approval , which be normally require for any contingent liability above £ 300 , 000 , surely Parliament should have be present with the result of the ongoing review of the liability during whatever time be available , and parliamentary time should have be schedule to allow parliamentarian to scrutinise — order . I think I get the message in the first five minute . I be very grateful to the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . as she say , a contingent liability of this size would normally involve the laying of a memorandum for a period of 14 sitting day before the guarantee be approve . the write statement make by the Minister for Energy on 1 September , when the House return from the summer recess , set out the reason why the usual process could not be follow in this case . I suggest that the hon . Member might want to raise this matter privately with the Public Accounts Committee and the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . I know that she be a doughty member who will ensure that those concern be raise in many other area . Bill present Public Office ( accountability ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary David Lammy , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Pat McFadden , Secretary Bridget Phillipson , Secretary Peter Kyle , Secretary Lisa Nandy , James Murray , Nick Thomas - Symonds , Alex Davies - Jones , Josh Simons , Anna Turley and Chris Ward , present a Bill to impose a duty on public authority and public official to act with candour , transparency and frankness ; to make provision for the enforcement of that duty in their dealing with inquiry and investigation ; to require public authority to promote and take step to maintain ethical conduct within all part of the authority ; to create an offence in relation to public authority and public official who mislead the public ; to create further offence in relation to the misconduct of person who hold public office and to abolish the common law offence of misconduct in public office ; to make provision enable person to participate at inquiry and investigation where the conduct of public authority may be in issue ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Monday 13 October , and to be print ( Bill 306 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 306 - en ) . Ambassador to the United States Emergency debate ( Standing Order No . 24 ) I beg to move , that this House have consider the appointment process and the circumstance lead to the dismissal of the former United Kingdom Ambassador to the United States , Lord Mandelson . sometimes exquisite coincidence happen in this place . we have just see a Bill present on the topic of public office accountability by the immediate past Foreign Secretary , the now Justice Secretary . I will just read to the House the first line of its description : " a Bill to impose a duty on public authority and public official to act with candour , transparency and frankness " . I think I might return to those issue in the course of what I have to say . as I have say , this be a matter of utmost concern across the House . it be an issue that do not just concern the Conservative party , the Scottish National party or the DUP ; member from all part of the House be worried about it , as we have see in the newspaper . the Government have key question to answer , and as I say yesterday , the central question be : who know what , and when ? let we be clear , though . there be many question on many level in this matter , and the Government must answer they all ; so far , they have singularly fail to do so . the question fall naturally into four category . first , be Peter Mandelson ever an appropriate character to appoint as our ambassador ? [ hon . member : " no . " ] well , we will get to that later . secondly , what be the procedure for vetting , be it properly follow , and why have it go so horribly wrong ? thirdly , what have happen in the last couple of week to lead to the demise of the former ambassador — who make the critical decision and why ? fourthly , what do we do now ? how do we make this government tell the House and the nation the truth , the whole truth and nothing but the truth — which in itself would be a novelty for Lord Mandelson ? let we begin with whether Lord Mandelson be ever an appropriate selection . as I say yesterday , our ambassador in Washington stand at the nexus of our most important bilateral relationship . for those who have not serve in government , it be the one bilateral relationship run by no . 10 , not the Foreign Office . that be because it be so important , and it be a role of exceptional sensitivity . more classified information cross the ambassador ' s desk than get to most Cabinet Ministers . indeed , in british embassy , the agency report to the ambassador . it be not the same in american embassy , where the CIA do what it want . our agency report to the ambassador , so it be a sensitive post . today , Peter Kyle — I have forget his new post — say that global circumstance dictate that the position of this particular ambassador be more important than it have ever be , and it could easily go terribly wrong . the failure to appoint the right person have already have a serious and deleterious impact on the national interest . the Prime Minister stake his special relationship with the US President on the diplomatic skill of an ambassador who have a special relationship with the world ' s most notorious child sex offender . I be sure that the right hon . Gentleman agree that the Prime Minister ' s judgment and the UK ' s presence on the world stage have be diminish by this affair . there be no doubt that the right hon . Lady be correct . frankly , I be go to try not to make this ad hominem about the Ministers who make decision ; we need to make that decision later , as it be . she be right that it have diminish the standing of our Prime Minister , and I regret that . although we be the Opposition , I want this Government to succeed in the national interest , and this be do the opposite of that . the ambassador ' s conduct , both prior to appointment and during , must reflect the high standard of integrity — that be fundamental , and it be true for any ambassador . I commend the right hon . gentleman on secure this debate . it unite the House with its purpose . it be clear within the rule that mp be accountable for their staff and their conduct and that there will be repercussion . do he agree that the Prime Minister be accountable for his appointment of the UK ambassador to the United States of America , and the same rule should apply ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . when we look at the mechanism engage , as I hope we will in the course of this debate , we will see why the Prime Minister make the wrong decision . there be no doubt in my mind that he do . the right hon . Gentleman talk about decision by the Prime Minister . he talk about the duty on member of this place and of the other place to conduct themselves appropriately . do it surprise he , as it surprise I , that we have a situation where my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) have be unfairly suspend from the Labour Whip , along with other , for oppose disability benefit cut and the Mother of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , remain suspend from the Labour party , yet Lord Mandelson retain the Labour Whip in the House of Lords ? be all of those thing not decision by the Prime Minister ? People outside here , include Labour member , think it be completely unfair . I understand all too well the point that the hon . Gentleman be make . many have make it in the newspaper , although generally anonymously . a double standard apply to the top of the Labour party — labour royalty , if you like — as oppose to other people who have be punish for do their job , represent their people and so on . he have get a point . rise — I will give way , but then I must make some progress . do the right hon . Gentleman not think it slightly odd that sufficient due diligence be not do prior to the appointment of Lord Mandelson ? on the day before Lord Mandelson be dismiss , apparently there be a lot of email available to the Prime Minister that he either be not give or do not read . we find ourselves in this odd situation where the british ambassador to the USA have to be dismiss in the full glare of international publicity because of his past behaviour , which be apparently well known to a very large number of people who should not have support his appointment in the first place . the right hon . Gentleman be exactly right . we will come to a number of circumstance in which information be available and should have be , but be not , act upon . this be not as hard as some may try to portray it as be : after all , the appointment do not come as a surprise . Lord Mandelson himself be clearly campaign to become the ambassador after fail to win the chancellorship of Oxford University . indeed , someone tell I that he be actually campaign for the ambassadorship while also campaign for the chancellorship , so he be after two job , not one . it be clear at an early stage that he be go to attempt to do this , and there be widespread discussion at the time about his suitability for the role , so there be plenty of time for a preliminary investigative or vetting process . there be , and be , a vast amount of datum in the public domain . Most of what I will speak of today be public domain material — I will explain when it be not . what would those conduct that vetting process be look for ? a number of we on these Benches and , I would imagine , on most Benches have be through such process ourselves . traditionally they would review the history and personality of the candidate , assess risk , such as the risk of the candidate be susceptible to undue influence , or , in extreme example , blackmail — the Russians and the chinese collect kompromat all the time ; the risk of the candidate abuse or misuse the role ; the risk of the candidate do something that would cause reputational damage ; or the risk , with which some on the Labour Front Bench may have difficulty and which they may find rather old - fashioned , that the candidate be too morally flawed to be give a major role in any case and fail a simple ethical test , which be where we may arrive in a moment . I be afraid that I be old - fashioned . I view ethical test as an absolute , which can not be trade off against some benefit or other . in the history that I be about to detail , we see a Peter Mandelson who be easily dazzle by wealth and glamour and be willing to use his public position to pursue those thing for himself . this be visible very early in his career , even to his friend . in 1998 , he be sack as Trade and Industry Secretary for fail to declare a pretty enormous interest - free loan that he have receive from Geoffrey Robinson . at that time Mr Robinson ' s business be be investigate by Mandelson ' s Department , so there be a clear clash of interest , and Mandelson do not even declare the loan . that be the first occasion on which we see so publicly the abide flaw in his character , which would generally disqualify any normal person for a job as important as this . even his friend see that . one of his flaw be describe plainly by one of his friend back then , who say : " Peter be live beyond his mean , pretend to be something he ' s not , and therefore he be beholden to people . " the important bit be that last phrase : he be beholden to people . it be a characteristic that be display time and again as he seek to use his position to curry favour with very wealthy and very powerful people who be either current or future benefactor . this be repeat in 2001 , when Lord Mandelson be again sack after attempt to broker a british passport for Mr Hinduja , a wealthy donor to the Millennium Dome project , with which he be involve . Mandelson attempt to influence the Home Office to give Mr Hinduja a passport when Mr Hinduja and his brother be under investigation in the Bofors weapon contract scandal — again , a dubious reason . incidentally , it be at about that time that his association with Epstein start , and the infamous birthday book entry date from then . do the right hon . Gentleman share my concern about the possibility that the Prime Minister will discuss this issue with President Trump later in the week ? the Prime Minister have to have influence over President Trump for very good reason , but if the issue of Lord Mandelson ' s relationship with Jeffrey Epstein come up — we understand that President Trump also contribute to that birthday book , with an infamous poem — what be the Prime Minister go to say ? I be very glad to say that I be not the Prime Minister ' s speechwriter , but all I can say to the hon . Gentleman be that I hope the issue do not come up , because it would undoubtedly be embarrassing and diplomatically problematic for the Prime Minister . astonishingly , after be sack twice for misdemeanour , in 2004 Lord Mandelson be appoint by Tony Blair to be the european trade commissioner . he be , as it be , give a third chance . as the trade commissioner , he be criticise on numerous occasion for accept lavish hospitality from company on whose commercial interest he be in the process of ruling — whether the company concern be Microsoft , an italian shoe producer or whatever — which , for some reason , often involve free luxury cruise . he see nothing wrong with such apparently compromise behaviour , and in that category , indeed rather at the top of it , be his association with the russian oligarch and gangster capitalist Oleg Deripaska . let we be clear who we be talk about here , because most member probably do not know much about he . Mr Deripaska be the winner of the battle for control of the russian aluminium industry , a battle in which roughly 100 people be murder . in court report , Interpol document and American Government publication , Deripaska have face serious allegation of murder , bribery , extortion , and involvement in organised crime . this be a truly bad man . I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman for give way and for the case that he be make . I wonder whether , while he be deal with the influence of russian oligarch in british politic , he will opine on the suitability of british political party accept donation from Russians , and the impact that that might have on their policy and their position . have the hon . Gentleman be here before the last election , he would have sit in this Chamber , I hope , and hear I opine on all those subject and raise prospective law to deal with those oligarch , law that , sadly , this Government have fail to carry through . that , then , be the backdrop . Mr Deripaska ' s visa be revoke by the Americans in 2006 , so Mandelson have no excuse for not know about his activity , yet as european trade commissioner he see fit to accept hospitality from Deripaska on multiple occasion over several year , which include visit he in Moscow and be fly by his private jet to stay at his dacha in Siberia and on his private yacht in the Mediterranean — all while consider whether to give russian aluminium access to the european market . Deripaska ' s activity be know to the british security service , and briefing be available to Mandelson , so , again , there be no excuse . he do this in the full knowledge of who he be deal with . it be in this position that Mandelson promote and sign off concession to russian aluminium company , which ultimately benefit Mr Deripaska , or his company , to the tune of $ 200 million a year . although it do not actually happen , one company be due to be the subject of an initial public offering — due to be float — shortly thereafter . a $ 200 million change in profit tend to mean a multibillion - dollar change in value , and that will have go into the pocket of Mr Deripaska . as we all know , Deripaska be a nominee of Putin , so we can assume that a large chunk of it go to Putin as well . in 2008 Mandelson be , very controversially , raise to the peerage by Gordon Brown and appoint Business Secretary . his contact with Epstein do not end . as Epstein be plead guilty to child sex offence , Mandelson email he : " I think the world of you and I feel hopeless and furious about what have happen . . . your friend stay with you and love you . " little remorse there , shall we say , and little pity for the victim . after Lord Mandelson leave office when Labour lose the election in 2010 , he found a lobbying firm , Global Counsel . controversially , he do not name his client . the House of Lords have rather slack rule about this , so somebody can create a company and just declare that they get however much money from the company , but they do not declare who the customer really be . I do not have documentary record on this , so I be not go to name the company I be talk about , but there be russian company — extremely dubious russian company — and chinese company . I be look at my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , who would recognise a number of the chinese company because he have campaign about they , but I will leave it there . in the context of Lord Mandelson ' s appointment to Washington — and bear in mind that this be all to do with a judgment make about his be the ambassador in Washington — it be his close association with the organ of the chinese state that should have raise most red flag , if the House will forgive the pun . the Inter - Parliamentary Alliance on China present a dossier to US Senators , which provoke enough concern that they pass it to the FBI . this may have be a reason — and here I be surmise — for the purported concern about whether the Trump Administration would allow Mandelson ' s accreditation back in January . I appreciate some of the point the right hon . Member be make , but I would just note that one of the conservative candidate run in a Milton Keynes constituency at the last general election work for Global Counsel . it be interesting that the Conservatives have such complaint about this organisation when they be willing to support a candidate who work for it . I be go to be very gentle . let I just say that we be talk about a very serious issue , in which the national interest be engage , and about somebody who in my view have use his public position to his own advantage and to the disadvantage of the state . that be not true of some candidate work in a junior role for the company , but it be true of the man who create that company and use it to promote his own interest . to come back to the Inter - Parliamentary Alliance on China , from my point of view — and this be personal rather than political — even more worrying be the attitude strike by Mandelson in February 2021 when , during a lobbying meeting on behalf of his rich client , he tell chinese Premier Li Keqiang that the critic of Beijing ' s human right record would be " prove wrong " . that astonishing statement be follow later in 2021 by Mandelson be the only labour peer to vote — against a three - line Whip — against a genocide amendment that would have mean this country have to reconsider any trade deal with a country find by the High Court to be commit genocide , and most specifically China be in the crosshair . frankly , it would appear that Lord Mandelson have subcontract his conscience for money . my right hon . friend have mention the Inter - Parliamentary Alliance on China . in case the House think it be a conservative organisation , can I explain that it have Members of Parliament from all party in this House , that 53 country be involve and that it have co - chair from both the left and the right ? it be wholly above party politic , but be all about the threat from China . my right hon . friend be exactly right , and the Senators to whom these document be send be very responsible one . they would not frivolously pass on such document to the FBI , and the FBI would not frivolously accept they and investigate . do my right hon . friend recall that on 21 November last , the Prime Minister be challenge to rule out appoint Lord Mandelson as ambassador to the United States on the ground that he have say Ukraine would have to give up all the land Russia have occupy and that it must give up any hope of ever join NATO in return for some unspecified security guarantee ? the Prime Minister say he would not be tempt to comment on the possibility of his be appoint ambassador , and as he say it he have a very noticeable little smirk on his face . do my right hon . friend agree that the Prime Minister be not smirk about this matter any more ? I say to my right hon . friend that the Prime Minister give what be clearly — what can I say ? — a lawyer ' s answer to that question , which as we all know be not a proper answer at all . no . 10 be well aware that Mandelson have continue his relationship with Epstein after he be convict as a paedophile . how the Prime Minister could possibly have think it be wise to appoint a man who be on record consorting with allege murderer and convict paedophile to a position of privilege and power be , to I , utterly unfathomable . the right hon . Member have rightly point out Lord Mandelson ' s murky attitude towards money , but do this not also shine a terrible light on his attitude towards woman , which , by contrast , do not look good for the Government ? I agree — the hon . member be right . Lord Mandelson ' s continued support of Epstein show an attitude that I find completely reprehensible in exactly that respect , because Epstein ' s victim be woman — young woman , girl , child . so , yes , I do agree . it have long be clear that Mandelson be not suitable to be our ambassador , so the question be : what change last week ? the Bloomberg email reveal further detail of Epstein ' s relationship with he and the birthday book in which he refer to Epstein as his " good pal " be with Mandelson by Monday evening and with the Foreign Office overnight or by Tuesday morning at the late . the Prime Minister be say to have know of the investigation by Tuesday afternoon , but not of the content of the email . why , when our most important diplomat in our most important international relationship be under question or under investigation , would the Prime Minister not want to know the detail of the investigation immediately ? we understand that the Prime Minister ' s chief of staff , Morgan McSweeney , be talk to Mandelson all day on Tuesday , so what be Mandelson say to McSweeney and be this pass to the Prime Minister ? one of the thing I would ask the Minister be if , later on , he can give the House an undertaking that we can have a record of that conversation , because we need to know . Mandelson give an immediate interview on Wednesday morning — hour before Prime Minister ' s question — admit that more embarrassing revelation would come out . Mandelson ' s past scandal and his link to Epstein be crystal clear by the time the Prime Minister rise to speak in pmq last Wednesday . be my right hon . friend aware that James Matthews , the Sky News reporter , cornered Lord Mandelson on 27 May to ask he specifically about stay in Epstein ' s flat ? Mandelson do not deny it , but simply say that he regret have any connection with he . these be the kind of question that should have be ask , and be be ask by my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) and many other member back in May , about the suitability of the ambassador . do my right hon . friend agree that the Prime Minister should have look into this far at that point ? exactly , and in fact early than that point . I will come back to that when I talk briefly about the vetting process . what precisely do the Prime Minister learn from read the Bloomberg email that be not already know about Lord Mandelson from public information and vetting do before the appointment ? each day that go by , we see more shocking revelation not only about his misconduct and his link to Jeffrey Epstein , but about the failure of both the vetting process and the political judgment of those at the top of Government . I say to the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) that that relate not just to their political judgment , but to their moral standard and the equity in how they apply those moral standard across the board . that bring we to the question : what happen to the vetting process ? Most of what I have describe be in the public domain . it do not take James Bond ; Google could do this . what be not in the public domain be in the official record , or know to the intelligence agency — in other word , it be all available to the Government . we know there be a two - page propriety and ethic briefing , which should have flag concern , but it merely trigger an unpenetrating email inquiry . that go straight to the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , which be : where be the question ? someone do not just send a three - line email and forget about it ; they pursue the question and cross - question the person under suspicion . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for give way . he will know that member of the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament be subject to extremely deep vetting . there be also a double check , which be that Parliament have to give its agreement to the appointment to the Committee , once nominate by the Prime Minister . do the Mandelson case not strengthen the argument for pre - confirmation hearing by the relevant parliamentary Committees of this House in order that candidate can be cross - question ? at the moment , the Cabinet Office advise on only about 1 , 000 regulate public appointment for this House , ahead of appointment . none of they be a Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office appointment . be it not now time to make that change , whether they be political appointment or senior civil servant ? my right hon . friend make a very good point . I certainly think that that would be the right way to go for political appointment . it would probably be the right way to go for the top dozen embassy . I would not worry about all of they , without be rude to — well , I win ' t pick a country . that would just be meaningless , but the top dozen be well worth do . the right hon . Gentleman mention that the Cabinet Office propriety and ethic team produce a report that be presumably hand to the Prime Minister , and that be certainly do prior to the announcement . do he agree that the Minister must tell we whether the Prime Minister read that report , and whether it contain anything that Parliament should have be aware of before he make the appointment ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point . he be right and I will reiterate the point . in addition to what my right hon . friend the Member for the Wrekin ( Mark Pritchard ) say , there should have be a fully develop vetting process and that appear not to have happen . there be a vetting unit in the Foreign Office and a vetting unit in the Cabinet Office , and normally one of they would have be engage on this . there have be claim that develop vetting happen after an appointment . no , it do not . for exist ambassador who be on a five - year vetting cycle , sure . for ambassador or officer who be be read into a new class of material , sure . but for this — an outsider come into the most sensitive job in Government — certainly not . will my right hon . friend give way ? I be be frown at by Mr Speaker for take so much time . I will give way for the last time . my right hon . friend be be very generous . at the weekend , the Secretary of State for Business and Trade appear to say that the Government believe it be " worth the risk " of appoint Lord Mandelson from the outset . as I hear it , what the Business Secretary be say be that for the positive quality Lord Mandelson have — as they see it — it be worth the risk that he might be more involved with a convict paedophile than they think from the outset . if that be the risk the Government be judge he by , be that not shameful ? I have already say that my view be that ethical standard be absolute , so there should not be a trade - off . let we take this , for a second , as a practical decision and take Mandelson at his own measure . he love be call the dark lord and all the rest of it . he preen himself on be a master of the dark art : spin , message management , political tactic and manipulation of the truth — a repertoire of thing that most people would not be proud of . if the Government think that those skill actually make up for his sin , well no . first , he be not as good as he be crack up to be , frankly . he be be measure — remember this — against Karen Pierce , the officer in place who be probably the good ambassador in Washington and certainly the most revere , and , after she , Tim Barrow , who be our ambassador to the European Union during Brexit and the National Security Adviser . he know all these thing to the tip of finger . be Lord Mandelson well than they ? pull the other one . I be come to the end , Mr Speaker , before you frown any more . no . 10 claim that Mandelson be economical with the truth . Mandelson claim he tell the whole truth . both statement can not be true . the question I pose to the Minister be these . will the Government rule out Mandelson be bring back into Government ? no . 10 refuse to rule out give he another job last week . if Mandelson withhold information during the vetting process , will he lose the Labour Whip ? I be look at Mr Burgon when I say that . be he go to have to resign from the House of Lords ? will Lord Mandelson be receive compensation ? some report in the medium suggest we will pay £ 100 , 000 of taxpayer ' money . will the Prime Minister , his chief of staff , his Cabinet Secretary and the permanent secretary to the FCDO appear before the Select Committees of the House to give evidence ? will the Minister provide the House with the document — the propriety and ethic team report and the developed vetting report , if it exist — require to answer our question as to who know what and when ? there be many quote in the newspaper from those in the Minister ' s own party about their horror regard the Prime Minister ' s decision and process . will the right hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? no , I really be come to an end . I will quote just one of they . this be a long - stand senior Labour Member : " I care that this culture of turn a blind eye to horrendous behaviour be endemic at the top of society " . I agree with he . when individual with such association be usher back into the heart of Government , be we not right to ask what standard now govern appointment to public life ? impunity be not a right . impropriety be not a technicality . and survivor of crime should not have to do the heavy lifting of hold the powerful to account . I mention at the beginning of my speech that a Bill have today be present to the House impose a duty of candour on public authority and public official . my last and single question to the Minister be this : will his Government now live up to the word in that Bill ? rise — I gently say to the right hon . Gentleman , as he be a senior member , that though he have take the time he feel be require , it have be long than 15 minute . may I just say that when we refer to other member , it should be by constituency , not by name . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . my Committee first ask for the opportunity to question Lord Mandelson at the end of last year , when rumour first surface about his appointment as ambassador to the United States . we continue to ask after his appointment be confirm . indeed , the Minister may remember our exchange , on 14 January in this Chamber , when I ask he to " allow Lord Mandelson the time to come before my Committee before he leave for the United States " to " allow my colleague to hear directly why the Prime Minister have appoint he " . — [ Official Report , 14 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 143 . ] request be make more often , and privately , after that , and in the eight month since . they have be turn down . I understand that there have be some chinese whisper go on . it have be claim that the fcdo have be tell journalist that the Committee have the opportunity to meet and question Lord Mandelson when we be in Washington . obviously , there have be a break in the chain , because the reality be that we have a 15 - minute interaction over breakfast while receive a formal briefing from diplomatic staff about other meeting that day , which be quite materially different from the type of formal evidence session require to conduct meaningful scrutiny . I want to make it clear that we have not seek to question Lord Mandelson out of a desire to frustrate the Government or their diplomatic agenda . in fact , quite the opposite . it be our responsibility to scrutinise the fcdo to prevent exactly this sort of mistake from damage Britain ' s reputation on the international stage . we want to make the Foreign Office the good it can be and in so many way it be do an absolutely excellent job . it be fantastic to see the way in which Britain ' s reputation have be so enhanced . however , mistake can be , and obviously have be , make . the shocking revelation of the last week be not in the public domain in December , but Lord Mandelson ' s relationship with Jeffrey Epstein be very widely know . have my Committee have the opportunity to question Lord Mandelson , I be confident that our member would have raise a range of question , along with these one , as journalist , particularly those at the Financial Times , have try to do . it be quite possible that those question may have provoke evasive answer , possibly not true answer , or even the same sort of response meet by journalist , particularly those from the Financial Times , but that would all have be in the public sphere . it would have be on the record , and Lord Mandelson would have have the opportunity to tell the truth before the House . have fail to convince the Government to permit my Committee to question Lord Mandelson , I write to the Foreign Secretary on Friday , pose a number of question about the apparent failure in the due diligence and vetting process conduct before and after the announcement of Lord Mandelson ' s appointment . those question include whether there be any concern raise by agency undertake security clearance ahead of Lord Mandelson ' s appointment and whether a decision be take to dismiss any such security concern , and , if so , whether such a decision be take by the fcdo or by no . 10 . I also ask whether any decision be take to suspend or alter the usual vetting requirement or the usual timeframe for vetting procedure . I thank the Foreign Secretary for her prompt response to that letter , which I receive this morning . in her reply , she inform I that the initial due diligence process have be carry out by the Cabinet Office propriety and ethic team before the announcement of Lord Mandelson ' s appointment , as have be widely report . she assure I that the Foreign Office do not contribute to that process , and that no issue be raise by the fcdo as a result . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I think this be quite important , and I would like to have the opportunity to inform the House with clarity so that we all know where we stand . I believe that this contribution to the debate be an important one . it be not a party political point ; it be just try to ensure that we learn from what we have hear . the Foreign Secretary assure I that the Foreign Office do not contribute to that Cabinet Office process , and that no issue be raise by the fcdo as a result . the question be this : do the Cabinet Office miss the glare red flag of Lord Mandelson ' s relationship with Epstein , or do it fail to pass those concern on ? if so , why ? rise — genuinely guy , just give I a chance to put this before you . the Foreign Secretary ' s letter state that — [ interruption . ] I hope that the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) will give I an opportunity to put this before the House . I apologise for call hon . member " guy " . the Foreign Secretary ' s letter state that the Cabinet Office due diligence process be follow by the usual developed vetting process , or DV , which be carry out by national security vet on behalf of the fcdo , after the announcement of Lord Mandelson ' s appointment . accord to the Foreign Secretary , this be conduct to the " usual standard set for Developed Vetting . " career civil servant be regularly subject to such test , and many have story of their appointment be delay or even prohibit because they have study abroad , marry an iranian , or simply because they be bear in Belfast . the question be this : do have significant information in the public domain about a relationship with an internationally prolific child sex offender not raise more red flag than simply be bear in Belfast ? be a civil servant a great risk to this country because they be married to somebody who be bear in the middle east or because they be close friend with Jeffrey Epstein ? do the Foreign Office vetting process miss a glaring national security and reputational risk , or be it tell to overlook it ? my Committee ' s duty be to scrutinise the Foreign Office to make it the good that it can be , and neither the Foreign Office nor the Cabinet Office have show itself to be the good it can be in the process surround this appointment . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will get to the end of this paragraph , and then I will give way . that be why yesterday my Committee ask the Foreign Office permanent under - secretary and the Cabinet Office head of propriety and ethic to appear before we and explain what go wrong . we have be tell that no one be available before the recess , but we will continue to push for prompt and public answer . the right hon . Lady be speak powerfully . do she think that if her Committee have be allow to interview Lord Mandelson , it would have come up with a recommendation not to approve his appointment , and , in such a situation , do she think that her recommendation would have be listen to ? I think it be slightly more subtle than that . the point be that if Lord Mandelson have appear before the Committee , he would have face a range of question that would have highlight issue that need to be consider properly and that could not , in the rush to appoint he , be overlook in the way they seem to have be . it be about put a brake on it . we would not , as a Committee , have the power to say that the Government can not appoint someone , but we would shed light on the nature of the appointment and , through our question , be able to examine whether or not it be the wise thing to do . do the right hon . Lady agree that if we be to salvage anything positive from this whole sorry episode , it must be that in the future , Parliament , through the Select Committees , have a role in this process ? do not her experience illustrate that the question of who be in charge of that must remain with the Select Committee and not with the Executive ? I would not quite put it like that ; I think that the Executive do , in the end , make the decision — they be the Executive . however , I think that we should , as a Select Committee , have a role in this process , particularly when it come to political appointment . it have happen before , as the right hon . Gentleman may remember , when there be political appointment to the ambassador to South Africa and to Paris — it have happen in the past . I do think , particularly when there be political appointment , that the Select Committee should have a role in that process , and we can make well decision as a result . I be a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee , Mr Speaker . our Committee have a proposal that we should have a great role in scrutinise the appointment of the US ambassador , give that they be one of the highest ranking member of the diplomatic service , and to help the Government to avoid this situation in the future . do my right hon . friend agree that the Government should consider our proposal seriously ? my hon . friend may be surprised to hear that I agree with she completely . I think that would be very wise . I thank the Chairman of the Select Committee for give way . I make my own comment early about pre - confirmation hearing . add on to that , do the right hon . Lady agree that when senior civil servant — whether from the Foreign Office or elsewhere — be ask to come to Select Committees on important matter and they find some excuse not to attend , the Select Committee should at least have the power of summon in order that somebody give an account ? in addition to that , if security or classification be use either truthfully or — shall we say — exaggeratingly as an excuse not to give evidence to a Committee , do the right hon . Lady agree that when Select Committees have Privy Counsellors , as in her case , a briefing could at least be hear on Privy Council term ? the right hon . Gentleman raise some important point . the power of Select Committees to summon witness have be an ongoing debate , and I suspect we have not resolve it yet . he also raise the matter of Privy Counsellors ; our Committee have myself and another Privy Council member . the difficulty be that if we be offer Privy Council briefing , as we be sometimes , it be quite difficult , because we want to be able to do those thing in public and inform the public of the work of the Foreign Office to ensure that when difficult decision be be make , they understand why those decision be be make , with all the factor involve in that . that be fine ; I think we need to trust the public more than we sometimes do . we certainly need to trust back Benchers more than we sometimes do . the Chairman of the Select Committee be be very generous . she be elegantly describe due process and be imply — at least I think she be — that due process may have be set aside for other purpose in this case . however , we know that due process be do because the Prime Minister stand at that Dispatch Box last Wednesday and say that it have be do — unless he be use the Bill Clinton defence , and it turn out that due process be do , but set aside . where do that leave the Prime Minister ? I think it be difficult to have answer to all the right hon . Gentleman ' s question at the moment . I think the most important thing be that lesson be learn , and even if all due process be follow and the inquiry be proceed with to the letter , they clearly be not good enough and we need to change they . either due process be not follow or it be and we need to change it . either way , we need to work together to ensure that this never happen again , because something go very wrong . will the right hon . member give way ? I will give way one final time , but then I will finish . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady , who be very generous . as mps , we put the interest of the country above all else . what do she make of the decision to appoint an individual to represent our country in difficult negotiation in the knowledge that the other country have compromise information on the individual ? clearly , we all think that it be a mistake . the question be how the mistake occur and how we can ensure that this sort of thing do not happen again , because something go very wrong . when Lord Mandelson be appoint , red flag be obviously miss or ignore . on the day that the american President land in Britain for a state visit , the Government be materially bad off because we do not have an ambassador to the United States . rise — I really be finish . if we do not have the opportunity to scrutinise this failure , how can we ensure that we stop it from happen again ? we need to improve our scrutiny and our decision making . I call the Leader of the Opposition . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this important emergency debate , and I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) on secure it . my right hon . Friend make a series of excellent point , as do the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) . I agree with all those point . it be extraordinary that , on the eve of the President ' s state visit , we be talk about the US ambassador who have be sack in scandal . there be many unanswered question , and I will be ask many of they , but today the Prime Minister need to do three thing . the Prime Minister need to come clean about what he know and when he know it — not send his junior Ministers to cover for he . the Prime Minister need to publish the Mandelson - Epstein file in full . the Prime Minister need to take responsibility for the appointment of Lord Mandelson as ambassador to Washington . but the Prime Minister be not here , because he be hide from Parliament and hide from question . I know that he be a busy man , but confidence in he and in his government rest on he be able to account for what happen , and so far no one be take any responsibility . we have have our ambassador in the US sack over his relationship with a man convict of child sex offence . what be more — this tell we everything we need to know — this be an appointment apparently force through by the Prime Minister and / or his chief of staff . we have see a political ally push ahead of qualified candidate because the Prime Minister and Morgan McSweeney admire his talent for mix with the rich and powerful , despite his know link to a man who be publicly know as a convict paedophile and a convict sex trafficker . give the speech we have hear and everything that be in the public domain , it be now very clear that Peter Mandelson should never have be appoint . it be now also clear that the Prime Minister know that there be major concern when he come to this House just last Wednesday . instead of take action , the Prime Minister express confidence in he . why on earth do he do so ? be he poorly advise , or be it just his own poor judgment ? in every single one of his Government ' s scandal to date , far from be the decisive man of conscience he promise to be , the Prime Minister have shrivel from leadership , he have dodge responsibility , and he have hide behind other , just as he be do today , and he have come to this House and hide behind process and lawyerly phrase . the Prime Minister have show no courage , no judgment , no backbone . if he can not see it and Government Members can not see it , I can assure they that the british public can . the Prime Minister have turn out to be everything he claim to abhor . this be a Government of sleaze and scandal , and Labour mp know it . I will be interested to see how many of they stand up to defend their government . the british public and , especially , the victim of Jeffrey Epstein deserve the Prime Minister , for once , to be straight and honest with we . he must immediately do three thing . first , he must apologise to the victim of Jeffrey Epstein for ever have appoint Peter Mandelson as ambassador . how be it that this have still not happen ? there have be no apology . secondly , as I say , he must publish the Mandelson - Epstein file in full — all the information he have at his disposal , both when he make the appointment and when he come to the House last week to express full confidence in Mandelson . thirdly , he must make sure that someone take responsibility . everyone now agree that Peter Mandelson should not have be appoint . we have hear so much from my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington about endless scandal and conflict of interest with China and Russia , so why be he appoint ? be it a failure of vetting ? be it that adviser hide information from the Prime Minister ? or be it that the Prime Minister know and make the decision anyway ? someone need to take responsibility . do my right hon . friend agree that we have see a rapid transformation from the Prince of Darkness into a grovel Lord Yum yum ? one have to ask , why be the british Prime Minister surprise ? have he never hear the tale of the turtle and the scorpion that meet at the side of the river ? should the Prime Minister not have realise that the poor old scorpion simply can not help what be in its nature ? I completely agree with my right hon . friend . the story be that of the frog and the scorpion , and it be one of my favourite childhood story . everyone know what Lord Mandelson have be up to . it be simply not tenable for any Member on the Government Benches to hold the line on this one , bury their head in the sand and hope that it go away , least of all the Prime Minister . we now know that the Prime Minister be aware of the compromising email last Wednesday at Prime Minister ' s question , yet he come to the House and say that he have confidence in his ambassador . many on the Labour Benches cheer , but now they be all look at their phone , and most of they do not have the courage to look I in the eye . they be cheer last week , and now they be full of shame . [ interruption . ] sorry , be they proud ? no , they be not . I will continue . why on earth do the Prime Minister do that ? at any point do he ask his staff what more information might surface ? that morning Lord Mandelson be say that more information would surface . do the Prime Minister receive a briefing about that ahead of Prime Minister ' s question ? it be inconceivable that he do not . minister be now claim that new information subsequently come to light — new information that they do not have . the story be all mixed and mess up , and they know it . what information appear that be not in the original vetting ? we would like to hear that when the Minister respond . there be still more question to answer . when do the Prime Minister ' s chief of staff speak with Peter Mandelson last week , and what do they discuss ? do the Government have the courage to tell we that ? we be tell that Morgan McSweeney spend hour on the phone to the ambassador at the same time that Lord Mandelson be dodge call from the Foreign Office . what be they talk about ? those be question about what happen just last week , but how do all this come to happen last year ? the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee have ask some excellent question . but I ask the Minister this : what lead to Lord Mandelson ' s appointment in the first place ? how be it that a man with know link to a child sex offender come to be appoint ? an additional question be whether there be any external influence . do Tony Blair or any of Mandelson ' s friend have anything to do with the appointment ? the hon . Gentleman ask a very good question , and I hope the Minister can provide an answer , because all of we across the House want to know . we want to know how Lord Mandelson ' s appointment happen in the first place . as I see it , there be only three possibility . the first be that it be a failure of vetting , but be we really suppose to believe that this be the fault of the security service ? I do not think so . do they not drag up the intimate relationship with Jeffrey Epstein , which be discuss last week ? the second possibility — a bit more likely — be that the Prime Minister ' s adviser keep information from he . if that happen , it would be incredibly serious . do my right hon . friend agree that no matter what happen or do not happen , a Prime Minister — a leader — have to shoulder the responsibility ? it be absolutely appalling that they would then blame the staff around they . it be their responsibility , and they answer to the House — no excuse . my right hon . friend make an excellent point . this be a Prime Minister who hide behind everybody else ; whether his adviser , his junior Ministers or his Back Benchers , that be what he do . if he want to blame adviser , which one be it ? who keep it from he ? why have they not apologise and resign ? no one be take responsibility . thirdly , as my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington allude to , the most likely but most worrying reason of all be that the Prime Minister have plenty of information to suggest that Lord Mandelson should not be appoint but choose to appoint he anyway . even at the time , eyebrow be raise about this appointment and there be many critic ; I remember it from the time . now we read in the paper that the Prime Minister overrule security advice not to appoint Lord Mandelson . be that true ? the Minister should tell we . it be time for the Prime Minister to come clean . he need to come out of hiding . this issue will not go away . the Government can not play for time as we will be back here again and again until all these document be publish . we will be back until someone take responsibility . this be a political crisis on top of an economic crisis all of the Government ' s own making . they be distract now , but they come into office with no plan for the country , no idea what they stand for and no vision for what they want to achieve . because of that , they have be lurch from disaster to disaster , with winter fuel , tax rise , welfare chaos , scandal , and the Prime Minister ' s fail leadership reboot after just one year . the only plan they come into office with be a promise they make again and again to the british public : that they would restore honesty and integrity to Government . that be their define mission , that be their grand plan , and it be in tatter . so far , in one year , we have have an anti - corruption Minister sack for corruption , a homelessness Minister sack for evict tenant , a Housing Secretary sack for dodge housing tax , a Transport Secretary sack for fraud and a director of strategy — apparently the speechwriter — lose only yesterday in scandal . indicate dissent . the Minister shake his head — he should be shake it in shame . I have not say anything that be not true . now , finally , we have a US ambassador sack for his link with a know child sex offender . the Government claim to care about violence against woman and girl , until they actually have to do something about it . where be the apology to those victim ? I know the Prime Minister do not like difficult question , but it be his judgment that be be call into question . he owe it to the country to come clean . first and foremost , I want to acknowledge the many victim of Jeffrey Epstein ' s appalling abuse . for many of they , this story be not a political one ; it be a personal one . no one could fail to be move by listen to the brother and sister on the news this Sunday in their first interview in the UK , with the void that family will now feel from their loss . let we not detract from they and probably the many more victim who still have not come forward but be catch up in this scandalous and horrific abuse . I will keep my remark short . I have recently return from a trade envoy visit to Nigeria . what strike I on that visit be the hard work and dedication of our civil servant . I meet the british deputy high commissioner . all our diplomat work across many mission in many country do not make the headline , but they be represent the UK with distinction week in , week out . I know that be replicate across many country , include the deputy ambassador in Washington , who have take over from Lord Mandelson . he have be describe as a " highly regard diplomat " , so we wish he well in his temporary role . the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , rightly highlight a number of important question . I hope that the Government will be listen . my hon . friend will be aware that I be list in the House as an independent , not for matter relate to conduct or duty of candour , but for vote with my conscience to scrap the two - child limit — the scrapping of which be also support by the former Labour Prime Minister Gordon Brown and the Children ' s Commissioner . my suspension from the Labour Whip be apply over a year ago , within minute of my vote . do she agree that while I and other member , include the Mother of the House , appear to be hold to one standard , Lord Mandelson appear to be hold to another ? I thank my hon . friend for make her point . I think about the amount of abuse that many parliamentarian in this Chamber sadly face — particularly black and minority ethnic member — just for their mere existence . I know about the horrific domestic abuse that my hon . friend have face , and I hope that , with time , the labour leadership will look at some of the issue around suspension . she will know that I be not privy to that , but I know that many of we continue to raise these issue with the leadership . I will finish by highlight some of the many question that I hope the Minister will respond to . the key question that many people be ask , include many of my constituent , be about the recruitment process go forward . will the Minister — the Foreign Secretary be not here — assure the House that the recruitment process will be strengthen so that in future our ambassador will bolster the standing of our civil servant on the global stage ? we come to the leader of the Liberal Democrats . this debate find the House at its good , hold the Government and the Prime Minister properly to account . as the Leader of the opposition say , we may be rise for the recess , but this issue will not go away . I pay tribute to the right hon . and gallant Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) for secure the debate and for lay out the series of question that need to be answer so that we can properly hold the Government to account . I will not repeat all his many question . he make a long speech , which we will no doubt be reread over the next few week . I also pay tribute to the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Select Committee , the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) . her speech , in which she say that her Committee have try to bring Lord Mandelson before the Committee to be scrutinise but be prevent from do so , raise some serious question about how Select Committees be be ignore by the Government . we need to get serious about confirmatory hearing . the House and the public need to know what a Select Committee that specialise in a subject think about such an important public appointment before that appointment be confirm . I hope that we will reform the process of the House to build on what the right hon . Lady rightly say . the Leader of the Opposition make some important point about the need for disclosure from the Government . we need those document to be publish if we be to have a transparent process where we can properly hold the Government to account . if they have answer , let we hear they , and then we can do that analysis . much have be say about the process , but do the right hon . Gentleman agree that it be clearly never worth the risk to appoint Peter Mandelson ? will he go far than that on the professionalism of the role ? we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) about the reputation of our ambassadorial official across the world . would we be well serve if in the future we look to professional to fill those role rather than politician ? the hon . Gentleman make a strong point . the previous ambassador to the United States be hold in high regard , and many people think she should be appoint to the vacancy . I want to mention what be say by the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . yes , we have all these question to be answer , and there be disclosure to be make , but we must remember the victim in all this . I want to focus on the victim , because they deserve answer . when we read those sicken message , we think of Epstein ' s victim and their family — girl as young as 14 groom by Epstein , sexually abuse by he , traffic by he and sexually abuse by other powerful man . I have be think about the trauma not only that they go through then , but have be through since , as they see the man responsible for such horrific crime escape justice for so long . they see he convict in 2008 , but spend just 13 month in jail thank to his powerful connection . we know that the trauma of sexual violence and sexual abuse can last a lifetime and , for many people , it can be too much to bear , as we have see with Virginia Giuffre . victim of sexual violence be often silence , often ignore and always let down by a system that sometimes — often — see powerful man protect each other to diminish the crime . do my right hon . friend agree that the Prime Minister should never have appoint somebody who have know link with a convict paedophile ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . I pay tribute to she for the work she have do to protect vulnerable woman during her career . we salute she for that work . as we remember the victim , how must it have feel for they to see Donald Trump , one of Epstein ' s close friend and a man find liable for sexual abuse himself , become President of the United States ? how must it have feel for the victim to see another of Epstein ' s close friend make british ambassador to the United States ? how must it have feel for the victim to hear the Prime Minister defend Lord Mandelson last week , even after he have see those appalling message ? how must it have feel for they to hear minister say , even after Mandelson be sack , that his appointment be a risk worth take ? I think that be quite shocking . my right hon . friend have turn down the opportunity to dine with Donald Trump in the next couple of day , and he have be roundly criticise for that by some people who may well still attend . do he agree that it be an ample opportunity for those people to ask President Trump about his entry in that horrific book of birthday wish for Mr Epstein ? will my right hon . Friend ask they to report back to we about what President Trump say ? the truth be that at such state banquet very few people get to speak to the visit Head of State . however , the Prime Minister do , so I wonder if he will ask the President about his friendship with Epstein . I think he should and I think this House think he should . for decade , the victim and their family have see powerful man escape responsibility for what they do and what they know . it should be a source of deep shame to Ministers that the british Government be now part of that story . do my right hon . friend agree that one of the reason that Epstein escape justice for so long be that he be protect by other powerful man , and that if we be truly to protect young people from predator , we need to ensure that the protector of paedophile have absolutely no place in public life ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . I know that she have work for victim of domestic violence and abuse as well . I can do no well than quote the word of Sky Roberts , the brother of Virginia Giuffre . he say about Lord Mandelson : " he should not have be give the position in the first place . it speak to how deep the corruption be in our system . " not only must we hold the Government to account for this , but we need to fix our system , whether through Select Committee hearing or by hold the powerful to account . our constituent lose trust in our institution when they fail to hold people to account . I be proud that my party , and I be sure other in this House , wish to see those reform . not least for the survivor , for the victim and for their family , we must hold the powerful to account . in that regard , will the Minister , when he get to his foot , apologise to all of Epstein ' s victim and their family ? we need an apology from the Minister today . beyond that , will he say whether he agree that the Prime Minister himself owe they a personal apology too ? rise — order . we have a substantial speaking list and this debate be time - limit to three hour , so Back Benchers be on a six - minute speaking limit . I call John Slinger . I wish to express my sympathy with all the victim of Jeffrey Epstein and put on record my respect for the family of Virginia Giuffre who speak so movingly about she on the BBC at the weekend . in listen to the debate here and in the medium over recent day , I be strike by the similarity with the one that take place over many year concern the appointment of Mr Andy Coulson as the director of communication in Downing Street , from the point of his resignation in 2011 to his conviction for phone hacking in 2014 . it be an appointment that David Cameron consistently say he would not have make if he have know at the time the information that subsequently come to light . for that reason , the question be constantly ask in this House and beyond : why do the security process Mr Coulson go through prior to his appointment not uncover his past involvement in phone hacking ? some people point to the fact that , unlike previous occupant of his role , Mr Coulson have not go through develop vetting until long after his appointment and , indeed , have to resign before complete that process . yet when the issue be directly discuss at the Leveson inquiry , this be the exchange between Lord Justice Leveson and the former Cabinet Secretary , Lord o ' Donnell , which be important to recall . Lord O ' Donnell say of developed vetting : " I think some people have different understanding of what DV ' ing would reveal . it wouldn ' t have go into enormous detail about phone hacking , for example . " Lord Justice Leveson reply : " no . it ' s concerned with whether you ' re likely to be a risk . " Lord o ' Donnell then say : " whether you ' re blackmailable , basically , yes " . David Cameron rely on that exchange in this House after Andy Coulson ' s conviction on 25 June 2014 , when he say , first — and I think , correctly — that Coulson ' s security clearance be a matter for the civil service and not for the Prime Minister , and secondly , that even if Coulson have be fully DV - ed , it would not have uncover evidence of his involvement in phone hacking . I mention this now not to reopen the issue over Andy Coulson ' s security clearance , or that of Dominic Cummings for that matter , but simply to remind Opposition Members that it be not new to have these kind of question raise around the vetting of senior appointee . it be certainly not an issue that be specific to this Government or the particular appointment of Lord Mandelson . they would do well to remember that before they get too high on their horse in today ' s debate . will the hon . member give way ? I will not — [ interruption . ] I will give way . this really be not hard . be it not enough to know that Lord Mandelson enjoy the patronage of a convict child sex offender by stay in his house ? be that not enough to prevent his appointment as our most senior ambassador ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . I be set out for the House very useful context within which this debate — [ interruption . ] it be useful . hon . member can chunter from a sedentary position , but it be useful context . rise — I will not give way . I be come to the conclusion of my remark . the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) speak somewhat mockingly of the strange coincidence of politic , give the presentation of the Public Office ( accountability ) Bill early today . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister be a man of integrity . he have show that he believe in accountability and he act on it . the Leader of the opposition can reel off a list of Ministers who have be sack , but that rather prove my point . frankly , this be a welcome change and no matter how uncomfortable recent event have be , we be see , under this Prime Minister , that public official , Ministers and yes , ambassador be be hold to high standard than previously , and I welcome that . I call the Father of the House , Sir Edward Leigh . the speech that we have just hear be absolutely risible , frankly . I will just give the hon . member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) some advice : do not do the Whips Office ' s dirty work for they — rise — of course I will give way . I thank the right hon . Gentleman for give way , but I would like to give he some advice : please do not patronise I . I be just try to give the hon . Gentleman some helpful advice , but there we be . I have some advice for the hon . member for Rugby : those that lick the foot of the unworthy gain for themselves nothing but a dirty tongue . [ laughter . ] joke apart , this be a very serious moment for our country and for Parliament . whether you like he or not , President Trump be of incredible importance to our country . he be just about to arrive here and he must think that we in this country be complete plonker , frankly , for the way that we have handle all this . first of all , he have a very good relationship with the previous ambassador , but she be just sweep aside . then a man be appoint who have traduce he in the past . all right , that man be a skilled operator and have build up a relationship . President Trump himself be probably rather embarrassed about his relationship with Epstein , and then he find this be drag up all over the medium a day before one of his most important visit , which be of great importance to his country and to ours . he know that there be go to be difficult question at the press conference . the President of the United States must be absolutely furious about what be go on , so this be a very serious moment for we and we have to take it extremely seriously . I hope — I be sure — that the Government do so . I will repeat what I say in the urgent question on Thursday . I have see so many of these scandal , and it be usually not the original scandal or allege scandal that be the problem ; it be the cover up . I shall try to be helpful to the Government . we have already hear from the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , and it be an absurd part of our process that if there be a monumental scandal , we have a public inquiry — where official , Ministers , everybody must be drag in and every document produce — but government can just brush aside a Select Committee . I be genuinely try to be helpful now . obviously a bad mistake be make , but an even bad mistake be be make if the Government be not honest with Parliament and they do not release every single document . there be so many question that need to be ask and that could be answer if the Government — the Foreign Office — be honest in response . why be Mandelson choose , give his know past association with Epstein and his previous sacking ? be the risk merely misjudge , or do the exist vetting process fail to assess they properly ? the Prime Minister claim he do not know the full extent of the email . we have no reason not to take he at his word . obviously he tell the truth , but this raise serious question about what assurance or information he receive , from whom , and whether that constitute adequate due diligence . what exact check be carry out at the appointment stage ? what be know by whom and when ? if some of the unsavoury aspect of the former ambassador ' s friendship with Mr Epstein be know but deem " worth the risk " , what criterion be use to make that decision ? be the Cabinet Office ' s propriety and ethic team sufficiently rigorous ? be any personal , institutional or political bias exhibit in how risk be weigh ? the Government have state commitment on transparency , integrity and protect the victim of abuse or sexual violence . have a senior representative such as an ambassador whose past communication appear to mitigate , defend or minimise a convict child sex offender must run counter to those value . be that consider at that stage of the vetting process ? how do the Government reconcile this incident with their stated position ? why be the appointment make know that there be link , but without understand their full extent ? why be the Prime Minister publicly defend Lord Mandelson up until the revelation emerge , only to sack he in less than a day when the medium pressure rise ? be he sack for the content of what be reveal , or merely because the situation become embarrassing ? Lord Mandelson be appoint to arguably the most important diplomatic role in his Majesty ' s diplomatic service . this be a time of intense international pressure , and President Trump be operate the lever of power in a way that we have rarely see in the post - war world . what assessment have the Government make of the damage do to Britain ' s diplomatic standing by have such an important ambassador remove abruptly under scandal ? light be the good disinfectant , and the public — and this House , through the Select Committee — have a right to be inform . minister must assure we that the full record of Lord Mandelson ' s communication with Epstein will be disclose , and soon . we must also be tell whether any of the information the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary or any other Minister provide to the public have turn out to be inaccurate , whether intentionally or in good faith . the ambassador have be sack , but this incident be far from over . too many question remain unanswered . it be the obligation and the responsibility of Government to ensure that Parliament and the public be give a full and frank exposition of this matter . I often think it be a grave pity that the camera in this House tend to be train just on the individual speaking , because it mean that the public do not get the opportunity that we do early to look at the face of the Labour mps as this debate begin — to see the glum , serious look on their face as they recognise the significance of the situation that face their Prime Minister here and now . and I be sure that that glum , angry , serious look be share not just by those here on the Treasury Bench today but by those who have be flog in the public domain across broadcasting station throughout the course of the last week . the Chief Whip be no long in his place , but I like to think that Sunday be the first occasion when he be happy to be in his new role , because he do not have to appear on the Sunday medium round as Business Secretary to defend the indefensible and to tell we all , in the public domain , that Peter Mandelson have singular quality that nobody else on these isle — nobody else on the planet — could possibly have that make he fitting to be the ambassador to the United States of America . what a pitiful state to find ourselves in . what a pitiful state for the Prime Minister to find himself in . I hate to say it , but this be mire in politic , because this be a political decision by the Prime Minister . he choose to stand at the Dispatch Box last week and tell not just we but the public that there be nothing to see here — that he have absolute confidence in Lord Mandelson . it be the Prime Minister who choose to ignore the fact that be plainly in front of he , not for week , hour or day , but for month . he be the man who appoint Peter Mandelson to be the ambassador to the United States . Peter Mandelson tell a Financial Times journalist early this year to " fuck off " — his quote , not mine — when he be ask about his relationship with Jeffrey Epstein . that be what Lord Mandelson say . he also say it be " an FT obsession " . well , guess what ? it be our obsession now , and we be go to make sure that we get to the bottom of this . the Prime Minister be not above the scrutiny of the House of Commons ; neither be he above the scrutiny of the public at home . the great scandal of all be the fact that the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom appoint a man to that role , know that that man have maintain a relationship with Jeffrey Epstein despite the fact that Epstein have be convict in 2008 , in Florida , of have 14 - year - old girl masturbate he . the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom think it be fitting for the good friend of that individual to hold the high diplomatic office in the United States of America on behalf of the people of these isle . what a complete disgrace . the only thing that seem to have cause any consternation for the Prime Minister in any of this be not that that happen , but the fact that for a short period , Peter Mandelson appear to think Jeffrey Epstein be innocent . that draw we to the conclusion that if Peter Mandelson have maintain the friendship with Jeffrey Epstein but think he be guilty , he would still be in post . what have happen to the moral compass of this place , and of the office of the Prime Minister , where we can simply accept a rationale such as that ? how can any victim of child sex abuse in these isle or elsewhere have confidence in the structure that we put in place when the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom — [ interruption . ] the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , the hon . member for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) , shake his head . do he want to intervene ? be there something he disagree with in my assessment of those fact , or do he want to present the additional detail to this House that make any of that untrue whatsoever ? no . I notice he be not shake his head now , but I can tell he who be shake their head : the public — at he and his Prime Minister for the decision they have take . we be go into recess . all of we be mindful of the fact that this House be shut down . but when we come back , we expect answer . the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom hope that this be go to go away , but I and every other member sit in this House right now can assure he that it be not . rise — order . colleague — there be child in the Gallery . let we keep our language temper and ensure that we be be moderate in everything we say . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) . my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) be able to outline so clearly what today be about , and what today be about be an exceptionally serious matter . we be talk about the appointment of somebody who would have to have the high security clearance — high than a lot of Ministers — and who would have sensitive information go across his desk . yet , at the same time , it be know in the public domain that this individual be severely compromise . that should raise a question for everybody . government Back Benchers have be follow today ' s debate in a state of despair . I admire they for that , because they understand the gravity of the situation . as the right hon . member for Aberdeen South mention , the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , the hon . member for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) , have do nothing but treat the debate so far with contempt . he be smirk at the Leader of the Opposition and he have be shake his head at some of the allegation make that be in the public domain . that speak to the apparent attitude at the heart of this Government . I have a huge amount of respect for the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , who be go to have to respond to the debate . we work closely together and he be a good man , but he have be send to the slaughter today . this be a decision that be make around the Cabinet table . the Minister have to come to this House last week and announce that the Prime Minister have instruct the Foreign Secretary to withdraw the ambassador . where be the Foreign Secretary ? this be one of the most serious issue this House have debate in this Parliament , and once again the Government have the Minister to answer these question . to be fair to the Minister , many question will be put , and he be not go to be able to answer they . that be why he have be send here today : because he can push it off into the distance . I have nothing but respect for the Minister ; we work closely together on international affair and on NATO , and he have always be honest and up front . I know he must be dread respond today . maybe he can tell we when he actually know that the ambassador have be withdraw , because on Thursday he certainly look like a man who be slightly worried about what he have to come into this House to do . I have talk to my constituent , and it be a fact that in the last few day they have talk about little else . like the leader of the SNP in this place , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , say , this issue be not go to go away . I hope politician realise that . it will get big and big as time go on . to take up the point make by the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) , these question will have to be answer — there ' s no two way about it . when the general public speak so firmly to I in that way , and to all of we , we know they speak the truth . let we not shy away from what this be about : this be about a man who defend a convict paedophile , which most people know would lead to any vetting process be fail because the person could be compromise when they have defend someone of those serious criminal offence . we know from what be in the public domain how much he be in hock to this convict paedophile , and yet process be overridden . the hon . member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) rake up the past and , quite frankly , the resignation of a director of communication be very different from the withdrawal of an ambassador with top secret access . when the Conservatives be in government , we didn ' t exactly not have our scandal and heartache that we have to go through . I remind the House that what do for Boris Johnson as the Prime Minister be not the allegation throw from the labour side of the House ; it be when he say to this House that he be not aware of any of the allegation make against Chris Pincher , and then it turn out that he have evidence that he be aware . we know that this Prime Minister stand at that Dispatch Box last Wednesday and say he have not be make aware and do not have any document , when we now know that his office have they . the question have to be answer : when do he know and how can it be show that he do not know beforehand ? the Conservatives move against Boris Johnson as Prime Minister when it become apparent that he do know . I say to those Labour Back Benchers and those give opinion in the press , " do you have the courage now to move against a Prime Minister who have do exactly what the former Prime Minister Boris Johnson do in this country ? " this party move against he it become clear that that be not correct . it be say that " the buck stop here " . well , the buck really need to stop here . the right hon . Gentleman refer to the previous Prime Minister as have conduct himself in certain way . one of those way be not actually have an independent ethic adviser for a period of time , whereas this Prime Minister have an independent ethic adviser and act on their advice . I take that intervention because I know the hon . Gentleman would not be able to help himself . the reality be the Prime Minister make all this thing about , " I ' ve appoint an ethic adviser , I ' ve do this — " and yet , when ask the very straightforward question by the BBC , " would you sack a Minister who have break the ethic code ? " he could not answer . he obfuscate , as he always do . this be smoke and mirror , and this be exactly the situation we find ourselves in today . it be not good enough to say , " we didn ' t know . " I come back to the fact that people who be subject to a paedophile have to watch somebody who defend that paedophile get put in one of the high office in the world , carry some of the great secret of state — and yet this Prime Minister say , " that ' s all fine ; we ' ll override it . " I do not want to go beyond the six minute I be allow , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will just ask these question of the Minister — some of they have be imply . will the right hon . member give way ? I be afraid I will not . I do not want to test the patience of the House — a lot of people want to speak . the question the Minister have to answer decisively today be , " who know what and when ? " he have to answer who make the decision to award the ambassadorship to Peter Mandelson and what lobbying take place . any of we who have be to America work in international affair know from meet Karen Pierce that she be one of the most respected and capable ambassador . it can not be true to say that such a distinguished ambassador as Dame Karen would not have be able to carry out the task — a task for which member sit around the Cabinet table today feel that man be worth the risk . there have be some powerful speech from both side of the House , and it be apparent that everybody be agree that Peter Mandelson should never have be appoint as ambassador to Washington . it matter because ambassador be critically important to our nation . they be the leader in project our soft power . they be view as embodiment of the United Kingdom , and it be they who influence very largely how the UK be perceive . as have be say , we have have some really good ambassador to the United States , go back to the late Sir Christopher Meyer , who I know well and who do a terrific job , Lord Kim Darroch , and Dame Karen Pierce . sometimes there have even be good political appointment . there be a certain amount of controversy when Peter Jay be appoint US ambassador — he be the son - in - law of the Prime Minister — but he do a reasonable job . Ed Llewellyn become our ambassador to Paris , and now to Rome , and have do a terrific job . as the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , point out , because Ed Llewellyn ' s appointment be a political one , he be interrogate by the Select Committee . as she say , the Committee , on which I serve , have attempt numerous time to have Peter Mandelson appear . we be tell , in the Foreign Office ' s most recent letter to the Chair , that the Committee would have the opportunity to talk to he on a visit to Washington . I be at both meeting , so I can say that the first be a briefing about the state of american politic when we first arrive , and the second be a breakfast at which he host opinion - former to discuss with we what be happen in the US Capitol . at no stage do we have any opportunity to cross - examine or ask Peter Mandelson the question that we would have ask have he appear before the Committee . it be ridiculous to suggest that those meeting somehow compensate for his failure to appear . I be with the right hon . gentleman at those Foreign Affairs Committee meeting . we should also say that there be no opportunity for we to quiz Lord Mandelson in a public setting . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . it be important that we have that opportunity . have we do so , the question be ask now could have be ask then , and we could have explore rather more why the decision to appoint Lord Mandelson be take — it be still cause bewilderment to a large number of people . as have be say , it be now apparent that he should never have be appoint . I will not recap what my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) and many other have say about his record , his previous resignation and his unsavoury link , all of which should have ring every alarm bell . my right hon . friend be make an important contribution . do he not agree that although there be a tendency to say that it be about what we can do in the future , this debate be about what have go wrong in the past , about the Government ' s role in it , and about the Prime Minister shouldering responsibility and take we through what he know ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . actually , the two be relate , because we can determine the lesson learn and decide what to do in the future only if we know what go wrong this time . in order to know , we must obtain the answer to our question . the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee set out and run through a number of important question in her contribution , and we have now have an answer from the Foreign Office . she refer to the letter that be send to she . what we know from the letter — it do not tell we much — be , first , that the Foreign Office have nothing really to do with this . it say that the appointment be carry out follow the propriety and ethic committee investigation , which be carry out in the Cabinet Office . the Foreign Office be then tell of that and instruct to appoint Lord Mandelson as ambassador . after his appointment be announce , the fcdo start the ambassadorial appointment process , include national security vetting . national security vetting — deep vetting — have be refer to . we need to know what that say , but we be tell by the Foreign Office that national security vetting be independent of Ministers , who be not inform of any finding other than the final outcome . essentially , the Foreign Office appear to be say , " well , we be tell about his past , but we be not tell anything about what be uncover , about the question that be ask or about his answer . " yet this be someone who already have very serious offence against he , which have cause he to resign twice , and real question mark about his record as European Commissioner and about some of his friendship . all of those question must , one assume , have be ask during deep vetting , yet he pass . the final outcome be , " fine , he can be appoint . " the Foreign Office be tell that but be not give any other detail . frankly , I find that completely astonishing . it raise even more serious question about the deep vetting process and what it show , and why , if Ministers be not give any detail about what the process uncover , they do not ask any question about it . I look forward to the Minister address that in his response . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I give way to another fellow member of the Foreign Affairs Committee . the right hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the Committee ' s repeat request to meet Lord Mandelson before his appointment . he also raise the various response that we get from the Foreign Secretary . the important fact that there be question about the suitability of the appointment mean that there must also be question about the Prime Minister ' s judgment . do he ask to read the propriety and ethic and security vetting report before make the appointment , and do he go ahead despite their content ? the hon . Gentleman ask valid question . we need to have the answer to they all . I know that he will join I in urge the Foreign Affairs Committee to continue press this case . it may well be that another body — perhaps the Liaison Committee , which have the opportunity to interrogate the Prime Minister — will also pursue these matter . as have be say several time , this will not go away . there be real anger across this House and across the country , and people will demand answer . the Committee attempt today to try to put those question by summon two member of the Foreign Office and the Cabinet Office , but we be tell that neither be available . I can tell the House that I have some experience in summon people who do not wish to appear before Select Committees — there be a procedure — and I hope that , when we return after recess , the Committee will pursue these matter and will require Ministers to appear , and that if they refuse , we will see what other action can be take . these be very serious matter . the question have be ask , but the answer have not be forthcoming so far . we will go on pursue this until they be . rise — Order . I assume that everyone who be bob wish to contribute — there seem to be a lot of movement in the Chamber . I congratulate the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) on secure this debate . like everyone in the Chamber , my thought be first and foremost with the victim of that dreadful man whose name I refuse to mention . a week be a long time in politic . last week , we see the Prime Minister stand at the Dispatch Box to back , and then sack , the now former ambassador to the US . at Prime Minister ' s question last week , my party leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , question the Prime Minister on Lord Mandelson ' s appointment . the Prime Minister stand by it , confirm that rigorous background check have take place . this entire situation have leave a nasty taste in the mouth , to put it mildly . the fact that the ambassador to the US — the most coveted ambassadorial position in the United Kingdom by many metric — be seemingly okay with the moral turpitude of the man whose name I will not mention , even after his conviction , cast a long shadow on Britain ' s place in the world . the timing and nature of this episode — not that it could ever be anything other than terrible — be catastrophically bad . the optic be dreadful . while we should be demonstrate moral leadership in an increasingly volatile international climate , our emissary to our close ally have be discredit by scandal . the President of the United States land in this country today for his unprecedented second state visit . when the Prime Minister wine and dine he , will he take a principled stand on the matter of great importance to the people of this country ? will he press on Gaza ? will he make progress on our long await bespoke trade deal to insulate ourselves from Trump ' s tariff ? will he be support our NATO ally in make the case for well US engagement in the defence of Ukraine and shore up Europe ' s eastern flank to russian incursion into Poland and Romania ? as if not already bad enough , this murky affair have be thicken by the fact that a source from MI6 have reportedly claim that they fail to clear Mandelson and warn that his link to the man I refuse to name " would compromise he " . Downing Street press ahead with the appointment anyway . it be vital that the Civil Service Commission investigate whether the ambassador break the diplomatic service code by fail to come clean over these revelation soon . if it be true , it raise wide question about what other advice from the security service be neglect . why do Downing Street official fail this most basic duty ? why do the team in No . 10 send the Prime Minister out to bat stick to the line of confidence in Mandelson , only to defenestrate the ambassador a few hour later ? why be the Prime Minister not on top of his brief ? if it be the case that key detail and information be withhold from the Prime Minister , why have no one be out and swiftly give the boot ? in the late 1920 , a german philosopher call Karl Popper famously say that those who can not remember the past be condemn to repeat it . it be my sincere hope that that be not the case for this Government , for whom I usually have a degree of respect . there be so many question . we on these Benches and my constituent in Tiverton and Minehead demand answer . when I hear that this debate have be grant , I think long and hard about what I could add and whether I should even take part . many of the question that spring to mind about the process — where , when , why , how and so on — have already be ask far more eloquently and in more detail than I could . in essence , it come down to the fact that this be a political appointment , so the PM be the person who should carry the risk — that be the job . if it be someone else ' s , we need to know who that be . step back a bit , I think , " what would the man and woman on Hinckley high street say if I talk to they about it ? " they do talk about it , and it hit hard . they have many of the process question that we have . this seem a bit of a pyrrhic victory . I be acutely aware that the sword of hypocrisy have a blade on both side , and swing heavily in this House , it can hit both side equally , but it be not the wound that can kill ; it be the subsequent infection . that be the problem we be see today . the hon . member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) point to the past and talk about context . he be right : context be important to the public in this debate , and we on the conservative Benches be pay the price for some of the decision that be take before . it be not the fact that a previous Prime Minister eat cake . it be the fact that it be then cover up , and we have to come to this House follow the report to say that we feel the Prime Minister have lie . the new Prime Minister come in say , " there will be change . there will be something different . " those be his word . it be even on the lectern : " plan for change " . Herein lie the problem . when the Transport Secretary be find to have commit fraud , when the anti - corruption Minister be investigate for corruption , when the homelessness Minister have to resign for make people homeless , and when the Deputy Prime Minister and Housing Secretary be find not to have pay her tax , it be not because the Prime Minister push they out there — it be because the medium and this place do their job in hold they to account . that be the difference I be look for today . do my hon . friend agree it be a vital point that if our right hon . friend the Leader of the opposition have not take down the Prime Minister step by step last week , we may have go into a recess with this scrutiny still not happen ? my right hon . friend be spot on . respect should be give to the many people who have raise concern , include the Leader of the Opposition , many in the medium and many Back Benchers on both side of the House . this be my primary point : the Prime Minister say he want to do something different . well , what could he do differently ? he could come to this House , tell people the truth and answer the question . there be nothing stop he from deliver a statement , put himself up for scrutiny and answer these question . he could convene a Committee of the House — I be sure many would be happy to attend — to answer the question put to he . the point keep be raise about the three - week gap that be come , but the reality be that key Select Committees can continue to investigate this issue through the recess , which they should , and could call the Prime Minister to give evidence , so that we do not wait three week , with the Government hope that it die . that be the key . my right hon . friend be spot on . the Prime Minister say he would do thing differently . if he want to show leadership , he could come to the Dispatch Box himself . I have a huge amount of respect for the Minister who will have to defend this situation , but he be not the decision maker — he be not the risk holder when it come to this decision . therein lie the point . I be sad today , because the public will look on and see that a new Prime Minister come in on a landslide majority say he would do thing differently , by his own standard that he set , and he have choose not to . he have ignore the question . he have answer the medium , say in his one outing , " I wouldn ' t have make the decision if I know the information . " that be not good enough to allow the public to understand . I finish where I start : today be a pyrrhic victory — a hollow victory — but I live in hope . on the day that the Government have introduce the Public Office ( accountability ) Bill , I be hopeful that the Prime Minister could still lead the change that he set out . he could still live by his own standard that he set for himself and his government , and he could still clear up once and for all exactly what happen . I live in hope that that might be the case . the reality be that the Prime Minister personally decide to appoint Lord Mandelson as the ambassador to the United States , and in so do , he have humiliate and embarrass this nation on the international stage , because Lord Mandelson be someone who describe himself as the " good pal " of a paedophile and advise that paedophile to use his time in prison as " an opportunity " — truly shocking . there be two separate issue that require proper examination : first , the judgment of the Prime Minister , and secondly , whether he inadvertently mislead the House last Wednesday in respond to the Leader of the Opposition . let we look at the judgment of the Prime Minister . we know now that as he make the personal decision to appoint Lord Mandelson , he receive a two - page document outline some of his link to the paedophile , and yet he carry on with that decision to appoint he . he make the appointment in that knowledge . that be woefully incompetent judgment . last week , in the knowledge that there be a cache of email about Lord Mandelson ' s link to this paedophile , the Prime Minister make the judgment — as a lawyer who supposedly be forensic — not to ask the question about what be in the email . that seem to I an absolute failure of judgment . he then make the judgment to come to this House and say he have confidence in the man about whom he know there be a cache of email that he think it inappropriate to ask the detail of . the whole point of lawyer and barrister be that they do due diligence , but no — not our Prime Minister . that bring I to the critical issue of whether the Prime Minister inadvertently mislead the House . he say two thing to the Leader of the Opposition . first , he say twice that he have " confidence in " Lord Mandelson , and yet he know the day before about a cache of email , which he do not want to know the detail of , on Lord Mandelson ' s link to Epstein . the day after , the Prime Minister fire Lord Mandelson . be it credible to believe that one can have confidence in a man , give those two fact that come about within a 24 - hour period ? secondly , even more significantly , the Prime Minister say that " full due process " have be " follow during this appointment " . we now learn that that be not the case , because the due process be carry out after the decision by the Prime Minister to appoint Lord Mandelson and after it have be announce to the world at large . those two thing can not be true . either full due process be carry out before the decision to appoint , or it be carry out afterwards — it be not carry out " during " . for that reason , regrettably , I conclude personally that the Prime Minister inadvertently mislead the House of Commons and the british people . therefore , the Prime Minister need to come to the House and give absolute clarity on what he know and when , why he make those decision , and why he choose not to ask for detailed forensic investigation at the appropriate time . order . I remind member to temper their speech . we do not , at any point , accuse other member of dishonesty . I know that the next Member to speak will get that right . on rare moment , member on both side of the House come to the Chamber with the same question on their mind : how do it get to this ? the Prime Minister be proud of his record as Director of Public Prosecutions and of his skill to prosecute , interrogate and investigate — skill that be absent here . he will also be more than familiar with the basic legal principle of caveat emptor — buyer beware . that can be translate across the board to many scenario and , in essence , mean that we have to do our research and ask pointed question . on that point , the Prime Minister expose himself in interview yesterday . he claim that he do not know the content of the Bloomberg email , yet he know that they exist — where be the inquiry ? he know that an investigation have be launch by the Foreign Office , but not the content — where be the inquiry ? he be wait for answer from the disgrace ambassador , even though we understand that his chief of staff be in contact with he for much of the previous day — where be the inquiry ? give the knowledge that such outstanding question remain unanswered , anyone — not just a lawyer — would have draw breath and pause before give such a vote of confidence in the ambassador during pmq . it be wilful ignorance at good , or political belligerence at bad . the Prime Minister now say : " have I know then what I know now , I ' d have never appoint he " . the former Foreign Secretary say : " the truth be all the issue be weigh and in that time it be know that Peter Mandelson have a relationship with Jeffrey Epstein , but the scale and extent of that be only know last Wednesday evening when the prime minister survey those email . " we understand , however , that the Foreign Office contact no . 10 on Tuesday and that an investigation be open . something do not add up . there be such a lack of clarity on this matter , and where there be a lack of clarity , we need transparency . a proper due diligence exercise rely on the disclosure give , as the Prime Minister will be well aware from his practice . it be time to disclose . I be therefore sure that the Government will oblige the request of the Leader of the Opposition to provide the House with all correspondence and document in the Mandelson file . the matter , however , go beyond judgment call make by the Prime Minister and the previous Foreign Secretary , give that both be involve in the appointment of ambassador ; it be also a matter of ethic . what be deem acceptable behaviour for those in position of power ? the nolan principle be integral to all of we who serve the public : selflessness , integrity , objectivity , accountability , openness , honesty and leadership . those principle apply as much to the former ambassador as to the Prime Minister . under " Leadership " , the principle state : " holder of public office should … actively promote and robustly support the principle and challenge poor behaviour wherever it occur . " give the know record of Peter Mandelson , even before the detail of the Bloomberg email come to light , do the Prime Minister believe that that principle have be meet ? on that basis , will the Prime Minister be refer himself and other involve in the appointment process to the independent ethic adviser ? the role of ambassador in Washington be a crucial one , entrust with the most sensitive information and shape our reputation on the world stage . it be not too much to ask that its appointee embody the high standard . let we be crystal clear : this emergency debate be about honesty , integrity and the credibility of this Labour Government . it be about what the Prime Minister know about Lord Mandelson ' s link to Jeffrey Epstein , and when he know it . the public deserve the truth , but instead they have be treat to evasion , delay and , as my constituent have be clear , a cover - up . the decision to appoint Lord Mandelson as Britain ' s ambassador to the US be extraordinary . the link between Mandelson and Epstein be well know , as we have hear this afternoon . the vetting process surely should have raise red flag , yet the Prime Minister — yes , the Prime Minister — oversee the appointment . where be he today ? he be perhaps happy to talk to the BBC than at the Dispatch Box . the Prime Minister tell we himself that he have " confidence in " Lord Mandelson , even as the question mount and the damn Bloomberg email be about to surface . that surely be not an accident ; it be a choice , and one that go to the heart of the Prime Minister ' s judgment . let we remind ourselves what the email reveal : Mandelson offer word of support to a convict paedophile . those be not casual contact but sustained and deeply troubling link . yet when the Prime Minister be press on what he know , his story shift : first , perhaps ignorance ; then an awareness of medium inquiry ; and then the claim that he have not see the content of the email until the last moment . all the while , the Prime Minister ' s chief of staff be in touch with Lord Mandelson for " much of the day " before pmq . which be it ? the House deserve answer to the most basic question about a scandal engulf the Prime Minister and his former ambassador . the lapse be not isolate , however . two of the Prime Minister ' s most senior appointment have unravel in recent week . it seem to I that Labour like to lecture we all about integrity , but in little more than a year in office it be mire in scandal , put loyalty to insider ahead of the basic decency that the public rightly expect . while the Government tie themselves in knot , our country face grave challenge . last week , russian drone cross into polish airspace , test NATO ' s resolve . bond rate here at home have hit their high level in 30 year . illegal migrant boat crossing reach record number in 2025 . in the west midland , bin strike roll into their sixth month , while Labour mp from that city and region sit silent . in my constituency , swathe of our precious green belt be under siege because of labour ' s planning reform . those be the issue that my constituent expect this place to be focus on . instead , the Prime Minister be distract by a scandal of his own making . to get back to the central question , what must happen now ? I think the answer be simple . the Mandelson - Epstein file must be release in full , urgently and without caveat . that mean the two - page vetting document and the evidence behind it ; all correspondence between the chief of staff and Lord Mandelson ; the communication between the Foreign Office , no . 10 and our embassy in Washington about the Bloomberg file ; and any other document present to the Prime Minister in make the appointment . this House and the public we serve have a right to see they . recess will be upon we within hour , but this scandal can not and must not be send into recess in the hope that this fail Government can sweep it under the carpet . the long that Labour refuse to publish the file , the more damning the conclusion become , and the more damaging it be to democracy in our country and to the trust of the public . the Labour party go into last year ' s election on a slogan of change , but every day it be demonstrate that it be change for the bad . at a moment when we should be project clarity , strength and integrity on the world stage , we be instead lead by a Prime Minister who be distract by scandal and paralyse by poor judgment . it be time to end the rumour , publish the file and finally put the country before narrow party interest — nothing less will do . I want to use the few minute that I have to focus on how it could be that , just last Wednesday , the Prime Minister of this country come to tell this House that he have " confidence " in Lord Mandelson , the friend of the paedophile , in his role as a key ambassador for the Government . the Prime Minister say that not once but twice , when the Leader of the opposition rightly ask he , declare : " I have confidence in he " , and " I have confidence in the ambassador " . — [ Official Report , 10 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 860 . ] those be his ring endorsement of Lord Mandelson . I want to examine the circumstance that then prevail when he say that he have confidence in Lord Mandelson . what be confidence ? confidence be have trust , faith and belief in someone . that be what the Prime Minister be tell this House in respect of Lord Mandelson last Wednesday , yet by Monday it be a matter of public knowledge that the Bloomberg email have be publish . the Prime Minister have since make some startling claim . he say that when he be answer Prime Minister ' s question he know that question be be ask , but he know only about media inquiry about the email and that question be be put to Lord Mandelson . our Prime Minister be a King ' s Counsel . the natural instinct of a lawyer be to interrogate , and the training of a lawyer be to equip they to interrogate . however , this House be be tell that when the Prime Minister stand at the Dispatch Box and say " I have confidence " in Lord Mandelson , even though he know that question be be ask , he do not interrogate they for himself or ask about what be be ask . when he tell the House that he know that there be media inquiry about email , we be be ask to believe that he do not ask , " what email ? what do they say ? " the hon . and learn Gentleman be make a fantastic speech . the Prime Minister say that he have " confidence in the ambassador " . he do not say " pende investigation or a suspension " , " I ' ll look into it " or " I ' ll follow process " , but " I have confidence . " why do the hon . and learn Gentleman think that the Prime Minister do not say that he would look into the situation seriously , and instead say from the Dispatch Box specifically that he have " confidence " ? that be the most troubling thing about this . equip with the knowledge that he inevitably have — Monday night ' s publication , and the knowledge that question have be ask and that there be media inquiry about the email — the credibility of the House be stretch to be ask to believe that the Prime Minister , a train lawyer , never interrogate any of that and never ask , " what email ? what do they say ? what question have we ask ? " we be ask to believe that he come to the House blind to all of that . not only in the appointment of Lord Mandelson do we see serious flaw in the judgment of the Prime Minister . if it be truly the situation , that he come to the House with a limited but uninterrogated knowledge of these matter , then that raise further question about his judgment . I fear that this House have many answer yet to receive . it be a matter of regret to I , as it be to other hon . member , that the Prime Minister be not here today to answer those demanding , alarm yet simple question : they be question that go not only to the heart of the Prime Minister ' s confidence in Lord Mandelson , but to the question of whether this House , and this people , can have confidence in the Prime Minister . the UK have a proud tradition of appoint career civil servant as ambassador . our senior diplomatic service be respect worldwide and , while travel with the Foreign Affairs Committee this year , I have hear high praise for our " Rolls - Royce civil service " . it be professional , reliable and globally respected . one strength of the british civil service lie in the clear separation between politician and official . since the Northcote and trevelyan report of 1854 , civil service impartiality have be a sine qua non of a permanent civil service , and the reputation of the british Government depend upon it . that rigid distinction have serve we well across the decade and apply in the staffing of our most senior diplomatic post . there have be occasional exception . for example , Baron Llewellyn of Steep , the former chief of staff to Baron Cameron of Chipping Norton when he be Prime Minister , be appoint ambassador to France in 2016 and now serve now as his Majesty ' s ambassador to Italy . he gain experience with Chris Patten in Hong Kong — later Baron Patten — and then with Lord Ashdown when he be high representative for Bosnia , so he plainly have enormous international experience . crucially , shortly after the political appointment of Baron Llewellyn be make , he be call to the Foreign Affairs Committee in 2017 to give evidence . let we contrast the british way with how the United States make its ambassadorial appointment . it be common for American Presidents to reward political donor or ally with ambassadorial post . Donald Trump ' s choice for new ambassador to London be a case in point : he be an investment banker and a donor to the republican party , not a career diplomat . by 3 September , Donald Trump have appoint 67 ambassador in his second term , 61 of whom — more than 90 % — be political appointee . in the United States , such appointment be subject to public scrutiny . every US ambassador must first appear before the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations , submit detailed disclosure on their background , finance and potential conflict of interest , before face direct questioning in a public hearing . in the United States , only after that confirmation hearing do the nomination proceed to the full Senate , where a confirmation vote be require . that ensure a level of transparency and accountability that be absent from the UK system . our system be set up for the appointment of senior civil servant , who receive vet on a rolling basis . the Foreign Affairs Committee be not afford the opportunity to question Lord Mandelson , either in public before his appointment or subsequentially . with the appointment of Lord Mandelson , we see neither the professionalism of the appointment of a british civil servant nor the scrutiny associate with political appointee in the US system . we should also look hard at what have happen in US - UK relation since Lord Mandelson take up his post last December . on Ukraine , Lord Mandelson ' s line be arguably close to the US than to the UK , prior to his appointment as ambassador . he speak frivolously on the Kuenssberg programme about " whatever happen to the fringe of Ukraine territory " . that be not the british Government ' s position . in March this year , after his appointment , Mandelson say that President Zelensky should be " more supportive of US peace effort " . those remark be so out of step that Ministers be force to clarify that the comment do not reflect british Government policy . on the middle east , we know that the UK and US government have take different approach to the conflict , which leave we wonder in what circumstance the UK position have not be portray correctly in Washington DC . trade be another area of concern . on 1 April , I give the First Reading of the UK - USA Trade Agreements ( parliamentary Scrutiny ) Bill , a ten - minute rule Bill argue for strong parliamentary scrutiny of any trade deal . while parliamentary scrutiny of any transatlantic partnership with the United States be essential , it be also essential with appointment to the role of ambassador . my instinct be that the UK ambassador to the US should be a professional british civil servant or an official . the hon . Member have make a theoretical argument and a general argument , but the actual argument be that Karen Pierce be a brilliant campaigner who would never have make the mistake make by Lord Mandelson , which he allude to , and she should not have be replace . I agree wholeheartedly . I commend the right hon . gentleman on call this debate in the first place , and he be right . it be rumour that Karen Pierce want to or be at least willing to stay on in post for another year , and she would have represent we in an excellent manner , which we know be characteristic of she . the Prime Minister have extensive power to appoint senior official . usually the civil service commissioner lead this process to ensure that the selection be on the basis of merit . the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 , or CRaG , allow the Prime Minister to bypass that check on his power , and in this case it have have disastrous consequence . as I conclude , I have two question for the Minister . will the Government give a commitment that in future any political appointment to a senior diplomatic role will go before the Foreign Affairs Committee for scrutiny before the appointment be confirm ? will the Government amend section 10 ( 2 ) of CRaG to ensure that diplomat , like senior civil servant , be appoint on the basis of merit and " fair and open competition " ? I thank and congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) on secure this emergency debate . the focus of the debate thus far have be primarily on three area : the victim of Jeffrey Epstein ' s appal crime , the conduct of Lord Mandelson prior to his be appoint and the judgment of the Prime Minister in both appoint and fire Lord Mandelson as the british ambassador to Washington . quite rightly , in this debate the House have focus on those three area , but I will add a fourth area that I find as chilling as the other three . since December last year , our ambassador in Washington have be potentially subject to leverage and blackmail , because someone — we do not know who — have politically fatal kompromat on Lord Mandelson throughout his whole time in office . I be amazed that the Foreign Office have not go into full lockdown and damage limitation mode , have find out that potentially Lord Mandelson could have be blackmail this entire time . if it have turn out that he have be an agent of a foreign state , the Foreign Office would have do that . all it know now be that someone — we do not know who — have politically fatal kompromat on he that whole time . the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) talk about some of the behaviour of Lord Mandelson in office , and that be the bit I be concerned about . I do not know whether the Minister be aware that Sir Ben Wallace give an interview to Times Radio recently in which he say that Lord Mandelson have be lobby no . 10 Downing Street on behalf of a single defence manufacturer for Britain to buy an unmanned military set of equipment — a major buy — without a competition , bypass UK small and medium - sized enterprise and expertise . I will not put two and two together , but it seem extraordinary that someone who be mean to be promote british interest overseas be instead promote US defence capability to no . 10 . we buy a lot of good kit from America , of course , but the absence of a competition skew the pitch and be odd behaviour . I hope that when the Minister get an opportunity to speak , he will talk about what measure no . 10 and the Foreign Office be take to examine every single thing that Lord Mandelson do when he be our ambassador , in order to establish the extent to which the politically fatal kompromat have skew his judgment and drive his behaviour . the now former ambassador to the United States have be sack due to the nature of his relationship with a convict paedophile — a relationship that have come as no surprise to anybody except the Prime Minister , it would appear . the Prime Minister and the former Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) , know of Lord Mandelson ' s relationship with Epstein , yet his appointment be feel to be worth the risk . that be despite warning from President Trump ' s co - campaign manager Chris LaCivita , who criticise the replacement of the former ambassador , Dame Karen Pierce , as replace a " professional universally respect ambo with an absolute moron " . even the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , who be effusive in her praise for Lord Mandelson , ask for he to come before her Committee to " allow my colleague to hear directly why the Prime Minister have appoint he " . — [ Official Report , 14 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 143 . ] with her face press up against the Cabinet Room window like Tiny Tim out in the cold , I be surprised that she could be hear , but the Minister for the Overseas Territories , who be look sheepish in his place on the Front Bench , be emphatic . he state : " we be absolutely convinced that Lord Mandelson will do an excellent job as our representative in Washington " . — [ Official Report , 14 January 2025 ; Vol . 760 , c . 143 . ] yet that whole time , the Government be aware of the security warning that Lord Mandelson ' s relationship with Jeffrey Epstein cross the line of what be acceptable and fail to meet the standard expect of what be arguably our most critical ambassadorial appointment . the President of the United States arrive for his second state visit tomorrow , yet we now suffer the embarrassment and indignity of have have to sack our ambassador for his proximity to a man find guilty of solicit prostitution from a child — a man whose girlfriend be convict in 2021 of sex trafficking , conspiracy and transportation of a minor for illegal sexual activity . indeed , an aspect of this matter that remain unclear be the nature of Lord Mandelson ' s relationship with Ghislaine Maxwell . the New York Times have describe this issue as " a stinging embarrassment " that " cast a shadow over the plan state visit " . how have the Prime Minister allow this to happen , ignore the advice from his security assessment to appoint he anyway , embrace the risk then have it blow up in his face ? prior to enter Parliament , I work for Barclays bank . in 2021 , the bank ' s CEO Jes Staley resign amid a regulatory probe into whether he mischaracterise his relationship with Jeffrey Epstein . I actually raise a complaint with my manager , which be roundly ignore and never advanced beyond manage director level , such be the squeamishness that surround the story . I be furious that Barclays still pay Staley his £ 2 . 4 million salary and £ 120 , 000 pension contribution while be defenestrate for his relationship with Epstein . that be not privileged information — it be widely report — yet while the financial world see fit to wash its hand of Staley , this Labour Government welcome Lord Mandelson with open arm . those link to Jeffrey Epstein who maintain a relationship with he after his conviction and who many time visit his island , where the crime take place , have long since be deplatforme and deem too toxic to hold position of power , yet the hubris of the Prime Minister see he ride roughshod over such glaringly obvious concern . be the Prime Minister be to take the mantle of the UK ' s decision - maker - in - chief ; it be to own the responsibility of make not just difficult decision , but the most difficult decision . appoint an ambassador to the United States be not the political banana skin that should bring down the government , yet here we be . the Government be teeter on the brink . yesterday the Prime Minister gingerly begin climb down over his handling of the Mandelson sack . when he come to the Chamber last Wednesday , he robustly defend Lord Mandelson and play to the baying crowd . he even have the chutzpah to claim that the conservative party have a leadership contest go on — be it not interesting to see he in the Smoking Room last night between vote ? [ laughter . ] last Wednesday , the Prime Minister state that " full due process be follow during this appointment " . — [ Official Report , 10 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 859 . ] he say that twice . if that be true , the Prime Minister know the full scope of Mandelson ' s relationship with Jeffrey Epstein . if he do not know and new information subsequently come to light , either the vetting standard of the Government be incompetent or the claim of " full due process " be inaccurate . the Prime Minister also say that " I have confidence in the ambassador " . — [ Official Report , 10 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 860 . ] he say that twice , too . the Prime Minister ' s explanation yesterday state that there be three reason for his tergiversation : " the nature and extent of the relationship be far different to what I ' d understand to be the position at the point of appointment , the questioning and challenging of the conviction , which … go to the heart and cut across what this government be do on violence against woman and girl and the unsatisfactory nature of response from Peter Mandelson last week to the inquiry make of he by government official – I take the decision to remove he . " can the Government lie out precisely what be the full due process that be follow ? the Prime Minister claim that he do not learn the content of the Bloomberg email until after his robust defence at pmq , so do Lord Mandelson fail to disclose that information during his vetting interview ? be there even a vetting interview , or do Lord Mandelson disclose everything and the Prime Minister be display wilful ignorance ? the hon . member ' s speech remind I of an early episode in UK - US relation , when Donald Rumsfeld refer to known known , unknown unknown and know unknown . while the Government might be forgive for not hold Peter Mandelson to account for unknown unknown , do he agree that it be unforgivable that they have stake Britain ' s diplomatic relationship with the US on know unknown ? I wholeheartedly agree with the hon . member . it be incredible that the Government have engage in such lax vetting regard such an obvious conflict of interest . on the nature and extent of the relationship , we know about Mandelson ' s closeness to Jeffrey Epstein when the notorious birthday book be publish , in which Lord Mandelson describe the convict paedophile as his " good pal " and sign off his many page of unctuous praise with the line " yum yum " . what else do the Prime Minister learn beyond that ? he claim that he know only of Mandelson ' s " association " with Jeffrey Epstein — that would appear to be questionable . turn to Lord Mandelson ' s question and challenging of the conviction , be he ask his opinion of the conviction of his " good pal " during his vetting interview ? do Lord Mandelson disclose that he feel , or have ever feel , that the conviction be unjustified ? either he be not ask , in which case the vetting be incompetent ; he do not disclose it , in which case he be not a suitable appointment ; or he do disclose it , and it be ignore by the Prime Minister . which be it ? the unsatisfactory nature of the response be the only aspect of the investigation we be yet to learn about . the Prime Minister must publish the new information , so that this House can fully understand . if Lord Mandelson ' s answer be unsatisfying now , but be not before , that suggest that full due process be not follow , in contradiction to what the Prime Minister claim last week . this whole sorry episode look set to derail the visit of the President of the United States tomorrow . we be a long way from the chummy bonhomie of the Prime Minister feel that he have stick the landing with his perfectly stage - manage hand delivery of an invitation letter to President Trump . I wonder how he be go to explain all this to the President tomorrow . the Prime Minister know that his day be number ; those in his new Cabinet know his day be number ; his Back Benchers know his day be number — perhaps he should try talk to they on a regular basis , not just grease up to they in the Smoking Room when he need their support . if the Prime Minister can not exercise the judgment require of his office , he must resign . rise — that be the end of the Back - Bench contribution . colleague who have speak should be make their way back to the Chamber . on Thursday , I come to this House to announce that the Prime Minister have ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw Lord Mandelson as the UK ' s ambassador to the United States . at the outset , may I say — there be many comment to this effect from across the House — that all of we be appal by Epstein ' s crime , and all those who have suffer as a result need to be at the forefront of our mind today . I also thank a number of right hon . and hon . member for what I think be genuine suggestion about scrutiny of process in relation to ambassadorial appointment . in particular , the Government have listen to the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , on this matter , and we will consider all option to support the Committee in its work in future . will the Minister give way ? I will not give way at first . I need to respond to many of the point that have be make in the debate , after which I will happily take some intervention . the Prime Minister take this decision after new information show that the nature and extent of Lord Mandelson ' s relationship with Jeffrey Epstein be materially different from what be know at the time of his appointment . in particular , Lord Mandelson suggest that Epstein ' s conviction be wrongful , encourage he to fight for early release , and say that Epstein have be through " year of torture " . we know that the only people torture be the woman and girl whose life be destroy by Epstein ' s heinous crime . I associate myself with the remark that a number of right hon . and hon . member make on that point , both about the crime and the victim . will the Minister give way on that point ? I will give way on that specific point . be the Minister effectively tell the House that Lord Mandelson retain his friendship with Jeffrey Epstein despite he be a paedophile be fine , and that the only problem be that Lord Mandelson think that Jeffrey Epstein be innocent ? be the Minister convey the message to the public that if Lord Mandelson have not send those email and have say to the Prime Minister that Jeffrey Epstein be guilty , that would not have be a problem ? the Prime Minister have be explicitly clear that the new information be not compatible with the duty that we owe to the victim of Jeffrey Epstein ' s horrendous crime against woman and girl , and with this Government ' s clear commitment to tackle that kind of violence and abuse . as such , the Prime Minister take decisive action to withdraw Lord Mandelson as ambassador . he have also be clear — he undertake a number of medium interview yesterday — that Lord Mandelson would not have be appoint if all the information we now have be available at the time . I point the House to what the Prime Minister have to say yesterday : " have I know then what I know now , I ' d have never appoint he . " follow Lord Mandelson ' s departure and in line with standard diplomatic practice , the deputy head of mission , James Roscoe — an experienced and capable diplomat — have be put in place as the charg é d ' affaire . the Minister be do a fair job , but I have one simple question for he : why be he , not the Prime Minister , in the Chamber answer the House ' s question ? the Minister clearly can not answer they — no disrespect to he . the Prime Minister say that he do not know something , but now he know something . where be the Prime Minister , and why be he not at the Dispatch Box ? I be in the Chamber respond for the Government as the Minister for North America . the hon . Gentleman will understand that there be very important matter take place today that the Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary be involve with . we have also see the new Hillsborough law launch today , which have be reference during the debate . will the Minister give way ? I will give way to the right hon . gentleman in short order , but first I want to say something about our excellent diplomat and official across the world . we have an excellent team at the british embassy in Washington — indeed , we have have many excellent ambassador , and we have a wide network across the United States , not just in Washington — and in King Charles Street . I pay tribute to they and all the work they be do , particularly in support the outcome of this week ' s important and historic state visit . I associate myself totally with the remark make by my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) about their professionalism , which I know have be experience by many member across the House . it be important that we put that on the record . this be a crucial moment for UK - US relation ; together , we be focus on deliver on job , growth and security for people on both side of the Atlantic . I say that I would give way to the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , so I will . give that the Minister be such a decent Minister , who enjoy respect on both side of the House , I be tempt to repeat the advice that Lloyd George give to Churchill during the Norway debate of 1940 , which be not to make himself an air raid shelter to protect his colleague — in this case , the Prime Minister — from the splinter . if the Prime Minister ' s case be as strong as the Minister make out , can he explain why , if I remember correctly , only a single labour Back Bencher have make a speech in the Prime Minister ' s favour ? with respect , this be an emergency debate that be secure by the Opposition . I be in the Chamber set out the case very clearly , and we have have a number of contribution from Labour Members . the right hon . Member know that I and member from across the House have affection for he and the work he do , include his previous role chair many important Committees of this House . many right hon . and hon . member have ask a number of specific question , include about the vetting process and security clearance that apply in this particular case . I fully understand the interest in those question , and undoubtedly other question will be raise over the course of discussion in this place . as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , it be the practice of successive administration — include precedent from the last government — not to comment on which official have access to confidential information . that remain the case today . I want to pay particular attention to this matter , because it be important and because member present have ask very sensible question . the national security vetting process be confidential , and the UK Government ' s vetting charter include an undertaking to protect personal datum and other information in the strict confidence . I be not go to depart from that approach in this Chamber today and release personal information about an individual ' s confidential vetting . however , while I will not talk about the confidential detail relate to this case , I can provide detail of the overall process that a number of people have ask about , include the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) , who open the debate . prior to the announcement of Lord Mandelson ' s appointment as ambassador , the propriety and ethic team in the Cabinet Office undertake a due diligence process , and after his appointment be announce on 20 December 2024 , the fcdo start the ambassadorial appointment process , include national security vetting . that vetting process be undertake by UK Security Vetting on behalf of the fcdo , and conclude with clearance be grant by the fcdo in advance of Lord Mandelson take up his post in February . I accept that private datum can not be disclose , but be there a mechanism by which the Minister can ask the Intelligence and Security Committee to look into the question of whether somebody — a civil servant , for example — who be know to have have a close association with a convict paedophile would have pass the vetting process to hold such a sensitive position ? that could be something that the Minister pass on to the ISC to look at , because it go to the heart of the situation . I very much doubt that a person with that sort of association would be give the high security clearance . I know the right hon . Gentleman make that point with sincerity , but I will not comment on the national security vetting process . that would not be appropriate or in line with be consistent from Government to Government . will the Minister give way ? I will not give way ; the hon . Gentleman be not here for the debate and he have just pop up now to try to intervene . national security vetting be a long - stand formal process undertake by UK Security Vetting on behalf of individual Departments , and it report back to they . it help Departments to identify and manage risk where individual have access to sensitive asset or site , and there be establish process within national security vetting to consider any security concern raise and to manage such risk appropriately . importantly , the national security vetting process be rightly independent of Ministers , who be not inform of any finding other than the final outcome . exactly the same procedure be follow in this case . will the Minister give way ? I will make a little more progress and then will happily give way . to return to the fundamental question that have be ask by many member , as I say at the start , in the light of new information , the Prime Minister make the decision to withdraw Lord Mandelson as ambassador . the Prime Minister take decisive action on these issue , and now the Government ' s focus be seize the opportunity of our US partnership as we look forward to the next phase of government , move from fix the foundation to drive forward growth and national renewal . a lot of member ask sensible question about the relationship with the United States , our economy , our security and the state visit that be happen this week . I point the House to the fact that last week we secure and announce a £ 400 million contract with Google Cloud , boost secure communication between the UK and US and build new intelligence capability for the UK armed force . on Sunday , we announce more than £ 1 . 2 billion of private US investment in the UK ' s world - lead financial service sector , and that new investment will create 1 , 800 new job across the UK and boost benefit for million of customer . [ interruption . ] just yesterday , we announce a new UK - US partnership on civil nuclear power as part of our drive to put billion of pound of private investment into clean energy , and I look forward to further announcement over the come day . order . I can barely hear the Minister speak . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I have take a number of intervention , and I do want to make some progress . hon . and right hon . member have ask about the US - UK relationship . I can tell they that it be strong , thriving and grow . the step that I have mention will ensure that our two nation continue to lead the world in innovation . we have trade worth more than £ 315 billion last year , and the US and UK economy be inextricably link . through the state visit , we will take that relationship even far , make trade and investment deal that will benefit hard - work family across these country and region . last week , the Prime Minister express confidence in Lord Mandelson . this week , do the Minister express his confidence in national security vetting ? of course I have confidence in our national security vetting staff . they do incredibly important work keep this country safe . I will not comment on individual case — I have be clear about that . I will return to the fundamental question ask by the hon . member and other . will the Minister help we with this ? in the letter that the new Foreign Secretary write to I , she say that the Cabinet Office propriety and ethic team conduct a due diligence process at the request of no . 10 prior to the announcement of the appointment , and that the fcdo be not ask to contribute to that process and no issue be raise with the fcdo as a result of it . now that the Minister have hear that , be he surprised that the Foreign Office be not involve ? I have set out the process clearly , and I note that the Chair of the Select Committee have receive that letter , which also set it out clearly . she may have slightly miss the commitment that I make to she and to member of her Committee at the start of the debate , which be about consider all option to support the Committee in its work on pre - scrutiny process . she make an important and sensible point . will the Minister give way ? I be go to conclude , and I do want to get back to the fundamental question . the Prime Minister have make it clear that Lord Mandelson should not and would not have be appoint as ambassador in the light of the shocking information that come to light in the past week . the argument that we have hear from Opposition Members today be that the information be clear all along . but if the full depth and extent of this relationship have be so obvious , I hardly think that Lord Mandelson would have be one of the lead candidate to become chancellor of Oxford University — but he be . I highly doubt that he would have be offer a job as a presenter on Times Radio — but he be . he also appear on BBC " Newsnight " , a programme that have do important work investigate the crime of — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be it really a point of order ? it be . be I mistaken in my belief that there be a convention in the House that when the Leader of the Opposition put their hand on the Dispatch Box and seek to intervene , the Minister give way ? that be not a matter for the Chair . it be entirely up to the Minister if he wish to give way or not . I be make an important point about the scrutiny of Jeffrey Epstein conduct by BBC ' s " Newsnight " ; such serious question might have be ask of Lord Mandelson , but to my recollection none be . [ interruption . ] indeed , I be glad that the Leader of the Opposition want to intervene , because I have a question for she . she and the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , as well as other Opposition Members , have raise question today , but do they say a word in this House about Lord Mandelson ' s appointment before last Wednesday ? I do not have any record of that . in fact , the record show that they do not raise it and they do not ask question . the reality be that in the light of new information , the Prime Minister have act decisively . we do not need any new information to know that it be an unsuitable appointment . the Minister be make a doughty defence of Lord Mandelson , but the truth be that this debate have be about the Prime Minister ' s judgment . when I be a Secretary of State and question be ask about judgment , I do not send junior Ministers to answer my question ; I face the House and I explain what have happen . the Prime Minister be not do so . will the Minister commit now to answer all the question that I ask in writing ? will he also take this opportunity to apologise to the victim ? he have not do so and the Government have not do so . the debate be nearly over . will he take this opportunity to apologise to the victim for the appointment of Lord Mandelson ? perhaps the Leader of the opposition be not in her seat at the start of the debate , because I make very clear our position on Epstein ' s victim and our horror at the revelation , and say that all our thought be with they . I do that in sincerity in response to the point that have be make across this House , and I say that again . however , she could not answer my question . she do not raise this issue before last Wednesday . if it be all so obvious , why do not she do that ? on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hope it be a proper point of order . I would hate for the Minister to mislead the House inadvertently , because I raise the example early of Sky News and of my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) , who raise concern about Mr Mandelson . even in this debate , we hear evidence of what the opposition have be do , include talk about the inappropriateness of this ambassador back in May . I have hear enough . that be not a point of order . I be refer to whether this matter have be raise in the House by the Leader of the opposition and other . the Prime Minister act decisively in response to the new information , which be exactly what should have happen . the former ambassador have be withdraw . the Prime Minister and the Government be focus on deepen our special relationship with the United States in the interest of people across the Atlantic for job , growth , prosperity , security and our defence . that relationship with the United States be a relationship that have endure , be endure , and will endure for the prosperity and security of our people well into the future . I call David Davis to wind up the debate . I be go to pause for a second . let I say first to the minster that I think everyone who speak remember the victim . after the sound of this political gunfire be long forget , they will still be suffer the scarring of what happen to they as a result of Mr Epstein ' s behaviour , and I would say to the Minister that , without U - turn or whatever , he should say to his Prime Minister that at the next possible opportunity , at that Dispatch Box , he should apologise to those victim for what the Government have do to date . secondly , let I say to the Minister that he be highly respected in the House . I see he almost as the last Spartan at Thermopylae , full of arrow as he stand there try to defend an impossible position . it be a position in which a number of we have be ourselves , so I have some sympathy for he . the simple truth be , however , that I find it very hard to reconcile what he say about this clearance process with what I know be know by the agency as long ago as 2008 about Mandelson ' s behaviour , connection and the like , and the clear possibility of kompromat , to which one of my hon . friend refer . there seem to be two possibility . what often happen with direct vetting be that the agency produce a series of risk for a Minister , and the Minister — in this case the Prime Minister , I assume — decide that those risk be worth take . that be one possibility . the other possibility be that the vetting process be completely break , and somehow or other it do not detect all those thing that be in plain sight . that strike I as implausible . I be afraid that what this Minister have tell the House do not seem to figure , especially when it be add to what be say by the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee about the report from the propriety and ethic team be produce effectively without the fcdo ' s input , which be — again — absolutely astonishing . the House itself have be remarkably unanimous , with one exception . the Leader of the Opposition make a characteristically sharply focused speech , and she make a number of comment with which , almost uniquely , the leader of every other party here agree . she say that we need the information and we need the accountability . what do that mean ? it mean something that be highlight by my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) : we need the release of all the document . there be no need to hide behind security , because there be no national interest security issue . the issue be whether the system be work , and we can not know unless we see those document . we need the Ministers involve , and the adviser involve , to appear before the relevant Select Committees and to answer question on this matter — and , if the Minister want to hide behind security , they can even do that in camera , as long as it be do properly and they have the opportunity to test some of these assertion . the Minister and other receive a great deal of good advice from a number of people , most notably the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , but from other too . they say that these problem be bad enough when they be to do with the original error , but they get bad in the cover - up . they get bad if people do not actually admit what have happen . Honesty be not just important in this ; it be also a survival characteristic for the Ministers involve . as I say , the Minister be the last spartan at Thermopylae . he have not be send here with the weapon to deal with this . he have not be send here with the answer to the question that we all properly have . I will finish as I start , by remind he about that Bill that the Government announce today . on the Order Paper it be describe as a " Bill to impose a duty on public authority and public official to act with candour , transparency and frankness ; to make provision for the enforcement of that duty in their dealing with inquiry and investigation ; to require public authority to promote and take step to maintain ethical conduct within all part of the authority " . that be what we expect , and frankly , if we do not get the answer — by the sound of it , we be not go to get they — we will return to this matter . the entire opposition will return to the matter , and I suspect some member from the Minister ' s own party will return to the matter . I guarantee that I will be seek to make sure that minister too be cover by the Bill , and when it eventually pass next year , I will be look at what happen . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the appointment process and the circumstance lead to the dismissal of the former United Kingdom Ambassador to the United States , Lord Mandelson . child Poverty Strategy ( Removal of two Child Limit ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish a child poverty strategy which include proposal for remove the limit on the number of child or qualify young person include in the calculation of an award of Universal Credit ; and for connected purpose . in July 2024 , the Prime Minister say : " for too long child have be leave behind , and no decisive action have be take to address the root cause of poverty . this be completely unacceptable — no child should be leave hungry , cold or have their future hold back . that ' s why we ' re prioritise work on an ambitious child poverty strategy and my minister will leave no stone unturned to give every child the very good start at life . " that be 426 day ago , but that action have not be take . it will not be take by today , by tomorrow or in the spring of 2025 , as promise ; it have be punt back to the autumn . since the Prime Minister make this statement , 100 more child a day have be push into poverty by the two - child cap — 100 more every single day . fail to take action to tackle child poverty have leave more child in family that be unable to afford the essential . the two - child cap have push 730 , 000 more child into poverty . how much long do these child have to wait ? the two - child cap be cruel , and it must be scrap now . these child and family be have their life chance and their future actively harm by the Labour party ' s persistent dither and delay . if child poverty really be a priority for this Labour Government , the Prime Minister would have scrap the cruel two - child cap on day one of his premiership . he have now have over a year to do so . labour be suppose to be the party of the left . what more progressive policy could there be than drastically cut child poverty overnight ? the UK be the only country in the world that withhold state support from child base on there be more than two in a family . a lone parent with three child who work full - time for the minimum wage be currently £ 4 , 500 a year under the poverty line if they be affect by the two - child limit . scrap the policy would mean that that worker be still £ 1 , 000 a year under the line . even on median earning , a lone parent work full - time with three child be currently under the poverty line if she be hit by the two - child limit . the Child Poverty Action Group have say : " poverty harm child ' s health , social and emotional wellbeing , and education . it harm their childhood and their future . " the two - child cap be cruel , and child be have to go without essential . over 7 million low - income family be still go without essential such as food , heating and basic toiletry . Joseph Rowntree Foundation figure for low - income family with three or more child show that almost nine in 10 go without essential , over eight in 10 be in arrear , and seven in 10 have take out a loan to pay for essential . of the family that respond to a Child Poverty Action Group ' s roll survey , 93 % say that the two - child limit mean they struggle to pay for food . on the current trajectory , 34 % of bairn will be in poverty by 2029 - 30 , include half of all child in large family . scrap the two - child limit would bring 670 , 000 people out of severe hardship immediately , include 470 , 000 child . CPAG have say : " abolish the two - child limit be the most cost - effective way to reduce child poverty which be at a record level " . other expert and charity agree with this assessment . stop argue about affordability , because scrap the two - child cap will cut poverty at a stroke , and it be the most cost - effective way to do so . the two - child cap be cruel . how be we still have to argue about this ? the new the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the right hon . member for Wolverhampton South East ( Pat McFadden ) , say last year that it be " open to debate " whether the two - child cap be a harmful policy . it be a harmful policy . it be harm family and child . why on earth would the Prime Minister put someone in charge of the DWP who wilfully ignore every single expert when it come to the two - child limit ? the two - child cap be cruel , and it be disproportionately impact child in large family , woman and those in minority ethnic community ; people who be already vulnerable and already suffer disadvantage as a result of multiple issue . the two - child cap be cruel and unfair . but , contrary to the Government ' s argument , this be not a problem of worklessness . some 59 % of family affect by the two - child cap have at least one work parent . by next month , 1 million child in work family will be hit by the two - child limit . simply grow the economy will not change the life of child in poverty . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation say : " we can ' t expect child to be ready for school or able to learn if they ' re go without the basic . " the UK Government will not see any progress on child poverty by the end of this Parliament , even with high economic growth , without investment in social security . we need real action to improve the life of child and family the length and breadth of these island . Scotland be the only part of the UK where child poverty be fall . this be a direct result of SNP policy , include the scottish child payment , the Best Start grant and the baby box , as well as the SNP Government ' s decision to mitigate the bedroom tax and the two - child cap . in the SNP , we recognise that the two - child cap be cruel , and we will mitigate it from March 2026 , but we should not have to . on average , the poor 10 % of family with bairn be £ 2 , 600 a year well off in Scotland because of the Scottish Government ' s action . in Scotland , both relative and absolute poverty be nine percentage point below the UK average in 2023 - 24 . keep the two - child cap in place be hold Scotland back from reduce child poverty as much as we would like . it be keep child and family in the rest of the UK stick in that cycle of poverty . match the scottish child payment of £ 27 . 15 per child per week , scrap the two - child limit , the benefit cap and the bedroom tax , would take 2 . 3 million household out of poverty overnight , include 96 , 000 in Scotland . member should not just believe I that the two - child cap be cruel . the Child Poverty Action Group have testimony from parent : " the two - child limit be the difference between we be in debt and not . we have utility debt and at the end of the month have to use credit card just to keep live . I didn ' t expect to be on universal credit . no one would want to be , and I don ' t plan to be on benefit for ever . but nobody know what ' s go to happen to they . " " we ' ve be really struggle and although we ' re start to get out of debt , there be time when I don ' t eat so I can feed the child . I do my good to put healthy food on the table , but it be not always possible and occasionally we ' ve have to use a foodbank . I never have a haircut because I just can ' t afford it . it doesn ' t feel fair that just because your child be bear after a certain date , there isn ' t support for she and you have to spread the support over all three child . " " I have to buy thing on credit and the child can ' t do the club they want to do . the policy be punish child — that ' s what ' s wrong with it . I ' m a taxpayer and my child will grow up and pay tax — the country expect they to — but when they need support now , there ' s no help for they — they ' ve be desert . " the two - child cap be cruel , and it be keep child in poverty . those who support scrap the cruel two - child cap include : save the Children , the Resolution Foundation , Sadiq Khan , Gordon Brown , Action for Children , Alison Thewliss , the Trussell Trust , Andy Burnham , AberNeccessities , the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , Aberlour , Neil Kinnock , Barnardo ' s , Includem and the Child Poverty Action Group . there be so many important labour member and so many incredible charity work to oppose child poverty and remove it . this be a key test of whether the Labour Government be capable of the change they promise the electorate , or whether Labour mps will keep follow a Prime Minister who be make the same mistake that have hammer family and see support for the Labour party collapse during his first year in office . Labour mp must vote for the Bill and send the Prime Minister a clear message that a radical change in direction be urgent and essential . Downing Street be brief newspaper that it will resist pressure from the SNP and Labour ' s soft left to scrap the cap . what be the point in Labour if it be not even willing to support soft left policy ? this Bill be a common - sense change that will support work people . it be a cost - effective way to take child out of poverty . it will ensure that family can make end meet and that bairn be not face a childhood without essential . I know that many Labour mp agree with I . if they hold their nose and refuse to vote in favour of the Bill in some misguided attempt to prop up the fail Labour Government , they will be choose to put their party above the life of child — child who live in their constituency ; child whose life chance be be hammer by the cruel two - child cap . all mp , especially labour mp , must put maximum pressure on the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions and the Chancellor to remove the cruel two - child cap once and for all , and they can start by support the Bill . history will judge Labour Members by their action today . before I begin , I thank the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) for introduce the ten - minute rule Bill today . while we may not agree on the Bill , I believe that this House be at its good when member argue for what they believe in , and I be glad we have the opportunity to do so today . my conservative colleague and I can not support this Bill . we oppose it because we fundamentally believe in two core principle : fairness and personal responsibility . I believe that this Bill undermine both . let we be clear : this debate be not about the principle of child benefit . as the eld of three child from a single - parent family , I know from my own live experience the challenge face by those in genuine poverty — have to scrabble around at the end of the week to find enough money to keep the electricity meter run , have to go next door to borrow a cup of sugar to make it to the end of the week , and have to go without the basic at school that most of my friend have . every child deserve the good start in life , and we should support that , but what be be propose be something entirely different . the Bill seek to remove the two - child benefit cap — a cap introduce by the previous Government to address a spiral bill in a welfare system that be , at time , be abuse . such a cap be fair to the hard - press taxpayer . why should individual already in receipt of state support gain additional benefit for have yet more child , while work family who get up early , pay their taxis and take full responsibility for their life do not ? remove the cap would not foster fairness . instead , it would penalise the people we should be champion : work family who play by the rule . it be only the conservative party that be stand up for those family , promote individual responsibility and protect the country ' s fragile finance . meanwhile , member on the Government Benches — not content with the chaos they have recently inflict on the nation — be now compete to be the most socialist , declare their support for scrap the cap despite know full well it will cost the country an eye - water £ 4 . 5 billion a year . we must be honest with the british people : remove the two - child cap be a massive unfunded commitment that do not reward people for do the right thing . simply put , I ask the House : why should a small business owner in Mid Leicestershire , who be already burden with additional taxis , be ask to pay even more to support someone else ' s child , especially when they be struggle to support their own ? at the heart of this matter be a philosophical debate . as conservative , we believe in incentivise work , not penalise those who seek it . we do not consign people to a life of state dependency ; we encourage they to strive , to achieve and to be the good they can be . unfortunately , it be not just those on the Government Benches who be promote this recklessness . the Green party want to spend £ 40 billion on its radical net zero agenda while still back the two - child cap ' s removal , and the SNP want to add billion to their welfare bill by pursue an open border immigration policy pay for by hard - work scot . Most surprisingly of all , though , be Reform UK ' s position . many of their hon . member be proud Thatcherites — or so I think . they appear to have undergo a damascene conversion and be now , I believe , back scrap the cap — a policy that would hammer hard - work ordinary white van man across the country . as we approach what would have be Mrs Thatcher ' s centenary , I can only imagine what she would have to say about such an anti - aspirational and profligate approach to the public finance . politician simply can not claim to want to reduce the welfare bill while pursue policy that would push that bill up by billion . let I speak directly to the british public , who be inherently conservative - minded : if your political belief be root in economic freedom and low taxation , can you really support party that want to take your hard - earn money and hand it to those unwilling to take responsibility ? only the conservative party stand with you . we believe in let people keep more of the money they have earn . we believe in address poverty at its root , not just by write cheque but by reform the system that trap people in dependency . our approach be clear . a future Conservative Government will stop sickness benefit for foreign national , fix the UK ' s sick note culture and reintroduce face - to - face assessment to stop people game the system , as the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , have say . we need to bring about a cultural shift where work , personal responsibility and self - reliance be once again core to our national ethos . as I say at the Work and Pensions Committee last week , we should not blindly throw money at the welfare system . we must instead highlight the importance of get a job , promote well financial management and uphold a meritocratic system where hard work always triumph over idleness . the Conservatives will vote against this Bill . we be the only party tell the uncomfortable truth about our out - of - control welfare system and the serious financial reality face our country . we owe it to our constituent to protect the public purse , we owe it to hard - work family to uphold fairness , and we owe it to future generation to build a society build not on entitlement but on effort , enterprise and aspiration . question put ( Standing Order no . 23 ) . diane Abbott Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Dave Doogan Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Claire Hanna Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Imran Hussain Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Chris Law Rebecca Long - Bailey James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Susan Murray Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Jon Trickett Nadia Whittome Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Kirsty Blackman Graham Leadbitter Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Mims Davies David Davis Luke Evans Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Robert Jenrick Alicia Kearns John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Chris Philp Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers John Whittingdale Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright James Wild Lincoln Jopp the House divide : Ayes 89 , Noes 79 . question accordingly agree to . order , that Kirsty Blackman , support by Brian Leishman , Jim Shannon , Claire Hanna , Si â n Berry , Liz Saville Roberts , Jeremy Corbyn , Sorcha Eastwood , Stephen Flynn , Pete Wishart , Brendan o ' Hara and John Milne present the Bill . Kirsty Blackman accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 November , and to be print ( Bill 307 ) . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 7 April , with the shadow Minister for the Cabinet Office , I table a question to the Minister for the Cabinet Office about update guidance for Ministers on declare hospitality and meeting with social medium platform . as this be the last sitting day before the six - month anniversary of table that question , may I ask you whether there have be any indication from the government that they intend either to answer that question on the Floor of this House or to write to I in the near future ? I thank the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . he will know that that be not a matter for the Chair . however , I be sure that those on the Government Front Bench will have hear his point of order and will be exhort their Cabinet Office colleague to respond as soon as possible . sentencing Bill Second read the reasoned amendment in the name of Robert Jenrick have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . it be my pleasure to open this debate — my first since be appoint Deputy Prime Minister , Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice . it be an honour to be back on this beat and to take up this brief . justice have always be at the heart of my politic over the past 25 year . far from be abstract , it run through every aspect of our life : our education , our health and the opportunity that people have to succeed . it have shape my life , from study and practise law to serve as a Minister in the old Department for Constitutional Affairs , and of course as shadow Justice Secretary . during David Cameron ' s period as Prime Minister , I be ask to conduct an independent review on racial disparity in the justice system . I grow up as a working - class kid in Tottenham and see too many young black man end up on the wrong side of the law . I represent Tottenham during the 2011 London riot , address at first hand the destruction cause when peaceful protest be hijack by violent criminal . during the Lammy review I also see the state of our prison , which be operate at close to maximum capacity , put the public at risk of harm . public protection be exactly why we have introduce the Bill before we today . at the heart of it be the threat that the previous Conservative Government leave we with : that our prison could run of out place entirely , leave we with nowhere to put dangerous offender , police without the capacity to make arrest , court unable to hold trial and a breakdown of law and order unlike anything we have see in modern time . as Deputy Prime Minister and Justice Secretary , I will never allow that to happen , because the first duty of Government be to keep the public safe . I broadly welcome the Bill ' s provision , which will take on the mess that the Conservatives leave behind . do the right hon . Member agree that it be important to get the right balance between the purpose of prison , particularly for violent crime , which be to rehabilitate criminal , but also to provide a deterrent and punishment , and maintain public safety and deliver restorative justice ? that be a very good summary . we must have punishment that work , and I will talk about that later in my speech . when we look at the record of the previous Government , and I have look at the figure very closely , we see that the recidivism rate be run at 60 % , 65 % , 68 % . something be not work when people go back to prison over and over again . I get the Department to give I the figure : over 5 million offence . all those offence have victim . we have to do something about it , and the Bill will begin to get we into the right place , because the first duty of government be to keep the public safe . but the Bill be not only about prevent an emergency ; it also take we back to the purpose of sentencing , which must be , as have be say , punishment that work — punishment that work for victim , who deserve to see perpetrator face retribution ; punishment that work for society , which want criminal to return to society less dangerous , not more ; and punishment that work to prevent crime . there be much to welcome in the Sentencing Bill , include the inclusion of restriction zone measure , which be testament to the tireless work of my constituent Rhianon Bragg and her fellow campaigner . detail need to be clarify , however . which offender will be automatically include ? will the measure be apply retrospectively and , if so , to which offender ? where will the zone be in relation to victim , and how will they be use and monitor in way that be different from the current exclusion zone arrangement ? I pay tribute to the right hon . member ' s constituent for fight to ensure that we get the balance right . at the heart of this — again , I will come on to this , and I know it will be explore in depth in Committee — the system of exclusion zone we have effectively exclude people from area , and a lot of woman who face domestic violence , who have have stalker or who have face violent man have have the situation where someone have be exclude . what we be do be turn that on its head and restrict the individual to a particular place , house or street , which will give those woman much more safety than they have have previously . I hope that her constituent will welcome that , because I know it be something that domestic violence campaigner in particular be call for . I want to thank David Gauke and his panel of criminal justice expert for carry out the independent sentencing review , which lay the groundwork for the Bill . it be a thorough , comprehensive and excellent piece of work . I go through it in detail , obviously , when I get into the job . I also thank my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) , for her work in bring the Bill to this point . when it come to prison place run out , the constituent of Members right across the House ask , " why don ' t we just build more prison ? " that be what they ask on the street . in their 14 year in office , how many prison cell do the Conservatives find ? I have shadow the Foreign Affairs brief or be in the Foreign Affairs job for about three and a half or four year , so I could not quite believe the figure when I arrive in the Department . I think it be wrong . in 14 year in office , 500 cell be all they find — 500 ! early at Justice question , the right hon . Gentleman ' s Department attempt to take credit for HMP Millsike — and for its 1 , 468 place , which be confirm to I in a write parliamentary answer — even though it be approve under the Conservative Government . do he acknowledge that that prison be in fact start under the Conservative Government in 2021 ? the truth be that we be build place fast than the Victorians do . [ interruption . ] we will have build 14 , 000 by 2031 — answer the question ! if the hon . Gentleman stop bay like a child and let I come to the point , he ask I about the Conservatives ' record and their record be this : violence up in prison , self - harm up in prison , suicide skyrocket in prison , assault rise by 113 % and assault on staff rise by 217 % . that be their record . the hon . Gentleman can look at it in detail in the Ministry of Justice figure . will the right hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? I will always give way to a brass neck . the right hon . Gentleman will not remember but I use to live adjacent to his constituency , and I remember what he be like as a local MP . he do not answer my question about the 1 , 468 place at HMP Millsike . he accuse I of " bay like a child " , and I appreciate that when he be on the back foot , he like to give a little nervous chuckle to avoid answer the question , but instead of deflect , will he address the point about the prison place that his Minister claim this morning be build by his government when they be in fact start four year ago by the last Conservative Government ? I have to say , the hon . Gentleman have not challenge the 500 figure . he should read the Ministry of Justice release . five hundred ! we will have 14 , 000 by 2031 — you win ' t . we be not in 2031 . the hon . Gentleman will be allow to stand up in 2031 and tell we if we have not achieve that , but it be our ambition and it be what we will achieve . rise — I have have fun with the hon . Gentleman , but I must make some progress . the Government be fund the large expansion since the Victorians . in our first year , we open nearly 2 , 500 new place , and , as I say to the hon . Gentleman , we be on track to add 14 , 000 by 2031 . in the next four year alone , we will spend £ 4 . 7 billion on prison building , answer the question that our constituent ask : " where be the prison ? " however , unless we act on sentencing as well , we could still run out of place by early next year . demand be project to outstrip supply by many thousand in spring 2028 . we can not simply build our way out . we must reform sentencing and deliver punishment that work . the Government ' s starting point be clear : the public must be protect . More than 16 , 000 prisoner convict of the most serious and heinous crime be serve extend determinate or life sentence . those serve the former can be release early only by the independent Parole Board , and those serve the latter can only ever be release at its discretion . nothing in the Bill will change that , because it be punishment that work . those who commit the grave crime will continue to face the tough sentence . road accident cause by negligence and people on drug and alcohol cause havoc for those who lose member of their family . will the Deputy Prime Minister join I in thank those family and activist group , include RoadPeace , Mat MacDonald , our local medium in Birmingham and the journalist Jane Haynes , for their campaign to bring about life sentence for the bad driving ? dangerous and reckless driving that take innocent life be a serious and painful issue that cause lot of anguish across our country , so I applaud the work of the hon . member ' s constituent and thank he for raise that issue ; no doubt it can be explore far in Committee . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I know the new Justice Secretary will not want to be accuse of mislead the House on such important matter . a moment ago , he refer to the measure before the House not affect the sentence for people accuse of " the grave crime " . the measure before the House will reduce sentence for rapist and child abuser . he either think that those be grave crime and want to correct the record , or he do not — order . that be quite simply not a point of order but a point of debate , which the shadow Secretary of State could well come to in due course . the hon . Gentleman have to read the Bill , because it do not reduce sentence . he really have to get to grip with the detail of the Bill — I hope these thing can be discuss in Committee — because it do not reduce sentence . on that point , will the Justice Secretary give way ? I be go to make some progress . the Bill introduce a new progression model for standard determinate sentence , incentivise offender to behave in prison . it draw heavily on reform that be pioneer in Texas , which end their capacity crisis . I be very pleased last week to meet Derek Cohen , a leading republican thinker . I refer the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) to clause 20 and 21 , which amend the release point . for regular standard determinate sentence , a minimum of one third will be serve in prison . for more serious crime on a standard determinate sentence , at least half must be serve inside . bad behaviour — violence , possession of a mobile phone and so on — could add more time in custody . to ensure that the bad behave offender stay inside long , we will double the maximum additional day for a single incident from 42 to 84 . this have get to be punishment that work , with sentence that be tough when offender show contempt for the rule of prison . what we want , and what I think the public want , be people come out of prison reform . that be what we be attempt to do . I have a lot of sympathy with the Bill and with the argument that there be no point call for long and long sentence unless we build prison . I accept that , but I be worried about the presumption that if someone be sentence to few than 12 month , they should not receive a custodial sentence . as a former practise barrister , I understand the argument for why short sentence often do not work , but people commit offence such as shoplifting be complete pest , and they be cause enormous damage to the economy . it may sound hard , but sometimes we have to issue short sentence for that sort of offence . we should trust the court and not try as parliamentarian to impose our judgment on they . I understand the seriousness of the point the Father of the House make . let I say this . first , we be not abolish short sentence . the presumption to suspend short sentence do apply , but not where there be significant risk of harm to an individual . in 2019 , the last government commission work on this , which David Gauke rely on in his review , and it be deep research . the problem be that the recidivism rate for those who be commit short offence be desperate . they be prolific precisely because prison do not work for that particular cohort . what be also in the Bill — I think this be good , catholic stuff — be the intensive supervision court , where the judge get to grip with what be happen with the defendant . be it drug ? be it alcohol ? be it addiction ? what be go on ? the judge really grip what be go on to get underneath the prolific offending . I emphasise that we be not abolish short sentence entirely . I understand the point that the right hon . Gentleman make . under the measure , release offender will still be deprive of their liberty . immediately after prison , offender will enter a period of intensive supervision by the Probation Service . clause 24 and 25 introduce a strengthen licence period with strict condition tailor to risk and offence , and it will be possible to apply new restrictive licence condition to stop offender from go to the pub , attend football match or drive car — restrict their liberty and their life in order to prevent they from be prolific . the Lord Chancellor describe a system that will rest heavily on the Probation Service and the reliability of tagging system . unfortunately , in my constituency surgery I have recently hear from constituent who be live in fear as the victim of violent crime , because the perpetrator have not be efficiently tag in time on release . will the Lord Chancellor assure we that there will be adequate resource for the Probation Service , and that contract give to tagging firm such as Serco will be supervise to ensure that the service be of a reliable standard ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise that issue , which be why I ensure that my first visit in post be to a probation setting . I pay tribute to our probation worker . they deserve full credit for all that they do . it have be important for we to find the extra resource to put into probation , to grow the number and the support , and to ensure appropriate supervision of tagging — to fine Serco where necessary but to ensure that the system be robust and work . that be of course a priority for this Government , as the hon . Gentleman might expect . I be grateful to he for raise the importance of probation . I see a worrying statistic that one in 20 people in the UK will be victim of domestic violence , which be truly shocking . I be sure that community such as mine in Harlow will be particularly concerned about that . what will the Bill do to tackle that scourge ? domestic violence be a serious issue . that be why have a flag in the system be important to ensure appropriate provision for that particular cohort of offender who might leave prison and continue to offend , so that they can be recall . such provision be particularly important to domestic violence campaigner . it will be possible to apply new restrictive licence condition and , as mention , tagging will be central to deprive offender of their freedom while they be outside prison . that be why I be introduce a new presumption in our system , that every offender be tag on leave prison . reoffende rate , as I have say , be 20 % low when curfew tagging be use in community sentence . today , about 20 , 000 people in the justice system be tag . the propose expansion will see up to 22 , 000 more tag each year , and many under curfew and exclusion zone as well . this be punishment that work — not just a spell inside , but strict condition outside , enforce by technology that we know cut crime . for the final phase of a sentence , the independent review recommend an " at risk " period without supervision . I think that that provision would cause concern across the House , so I reject it . under this legislation , all offender release into the community will remain on licence . the high risk will receive intensive supervision . other will remain liable for recall to prison , with any further offence potentially lead to recall , even if it would not normally attract a custodial sentence . the prospect of prison must continue to hang over offender , both as a means of ensure that they mend their way and as a punishment should they fail to do so . in June 2018 , there be 6 , 300 recall offender in prison . today there be more than 13 , 500 prisoner in that category . clause 26 to 30 therefore introduce a standard 56 - day recall , which give prison staff time to manage risk and prepare for release . some offender will be exclude from this change and will continue to receive standard - term recall , include those serve extended sentence and sentence for offender of particular concern ; those refer to the Parole Board under the power to detain ; those convict of terrorism , terrorism - connect offence and national security offence ; and those who pose a terrorist or national security risk . those under high level of multi - agency public protection arrangement — level 2 and 3 — will also be exclude . that include many of the most dangerous domestic abuser and sex offender . finally , those recall on account of be charge with any further offence will be exclude too . they will only be release before the end of their sentence under a risk - assess review or if the Parole Board say they be safe . this be punishment that work : breach meet with swift consequence , so offender know that recall be a real threat hang over their life . for some offender , sadly prison be the only option . for other , we must ask whether custody be the most effective approach . the evidence be damn . in the most recent cohort , over a third of all adult offender release from custody or who start a court order reoffende . More than 60 % of those on short sentence of less than 12 month reoffend within a year . this be the legacy of the last government : a system that fail to turn offender away from crime and a revolving door of repeat offending . the scale be shocking . of the July to September 2023 cohort , 21 , 936 adult go on to reoffend within a year , and for the first time since 2018 , over 100 , 000 reoffence be commit . that be what happen when there be a failure to take the tough choice need to reform the system , a failure to invest in probation , as have be discuss , and a failure to act on the evidence . clause 1 introduce a presumption to suspend short prison sentence , and be expect to prevent over 10 , 000 reoffence each year . let I be clear : this change will not abolish short sentence , as I say to the Father of the House , the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) . judge will retain the power to impose they in certain instance , such as where there be significant risk of harm to an individual , include victim at risk in domestic abuse case ; where a court order have be breach — for example , if a prolific offender fail to comply with the requirement of a community order or suspend sentence ; and in any other exceptional circumstance . similarly , clause 2 widen the scope for suspend sentence , increase the limit from two year to three , but custody will remain available wherever necessary to protect the public . clause 41 also update the " no real prospect " test in the Bail Act 1976 , clarify that bail should be grant if custody be unlikely . but , again , the court will continue to be able to remand offender where there be a need to do so . this be punishment that work : short sentence and custody reserve for those who pose a real risk , while other be punish more effectively in the community , unlike the previous approach , which leave reoffende out of control . punishment must apply whether sentence be serve inside or outside prison . just as offender release from prison will face restriction to their liberty , similar curtailment will be available for those serve sentence in the community . as I have discuss , that include tagging , where appropriate , and clause 13 to 15 will mean that it could also include ban people from a pub , from attend a football match or from drive a car . clause 3 will also make it possible to introduce income reduction order , require certain offender with a high income who avoid prison through suspend sentence to pay a percentage of their income for the good of the victim , ensure that crime do not pay . there be community payback , which we will also expand . work with local authority , offender will restore neighbourhood , remove fly - tipping , clear rubbish and clean the street . again , this be punishment that work , with liberty restrict , income reduce and hard work demand to repair the harm do . some 80 % of offender be now reoffender . alongside punishment , we must address the cause of crime . four intensive supervision court already operate , target offender drive by addiction or poor mental health , and they impose tough requirement to tackle those cause . evidence from Texas show that these court cut crime , with a 33 % fall in arrest compare with prison sentence . More than three quarter of offender here meet the condition set , and we will expand that work , open new court across the country to target prolific offender , with expression of interest now launch to identify future site . again , we be follow the evidence here . pilot show that intensive court cut crime , and we will scale they up . victim must be at the heart of our system . too often they have be an afterthought in the justice system , and this Bill change that . clause 4 amend the statutory purpose of sentencing to reference protect victim as part of public protection , require court to consider victim — and we be go to go far . clause 16 and 24 strengthen the restriction on the movement of offender . current exclusion zone protect victim at home , but leave they fearful when they step outside . for that reason , the Bill establish a new power that restrict the movement of offender more comprehensively than ever before . these new restriction zone , which will be give to the most serious offender on licence and can be impose by a court , will pin any offender down to a specific location to ensure that the victim can move freely everywhere else . that be campaign for by the founder of the Joanna Simpson Foundation , Diana Parkes and Hetti Barkworth - Nanton , who I understand be in the Public Gallery today ; I pay tribute to they and to all who have campaign for this crucial change . it be vital that we ensure our monitoring be equal to the risk that offender pose and the protection that victim need . clause 6 introduce a new judicial finding of domestic abuse in sentencing , which enable probation to identify abuser early , to track pattern of behaviour and to put safeguard in place . do the Lord Chancellor agree with my concern that neither the Bill nor the excellent report that precede it make any mention of restorative justice — a process that truly put the victim at the heart of the criminal justice process ? will he pledge in future legislation to address that omission ? order . before the Lord Chancellor respond , let I say that a huge number of his own back Benchers would like to get in this afternoon . he might therefore like to think about get to the end of his contribution . I be grateful for the steer . you know how it be , Madam Deputy Speaker ; this be my first outing , and I be get a little carry away with how good this Bill be . the intensive supervision court will be able to look closely at restorative justice , which , as the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) rightly say , be a fundamental part of our criminal justice system . there be a grow area of crime in relation to sexual offence . it be important that I mention the trial that have be run for three year in the south - west , pilot medication to manage problematic sexual arousal . these drug restrain sexual urge in offender who could pose a risk to the public , and be deliver alongside psychological intervention that target other driver of offending , include assert power and control . although the evidence base be limited , it be positive . for that reason , we will roll out the approach nationwide , start with two new region — the north - west and the north - east — cover up to 20 prison . I have already discuss invest in probation , so mindful of your encouragement , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will end by say that the Bill ensure that our prison will never run out of space again . but it do more than that : it ensure that prison sentence rehabilitate , turn offender away from crime ; it ensure that victim be at the heart of justice , with safeguard in place ; it expand effective sentencing outside of prison for those who can be manage in the community ; it follow the evidence of what work ; it be pragmatic and principled , protect the public ; and it draw a clear line under the Tory record of failure . after 14 year that leave the average number of reoffence per offender at a record high , Labour be deliver punishment that work through a justice system that follow the evidence . before the Lord Chancellor finish , I want to welcome and highlight the measure in the Bill that deal with offender , particularly clause 7 to 10 , which respond directly to Russia ' s increase use of petty criminal instead of its own agent in its campaign of sabotage . this be something that my constituent have already be directly affect by , after incident of warehouse arson and Islamophobic vandalism early in the year . do the Lord Chancellor agree that we need to clearly advertise that petty criminal who work with malign state will be investigate , try and sentence in line with the threat they pose ? my hon . friend know that in my previous role , I unfortunately see the increase risk of state threat and the pedagogy through which state be commit those crime . it be absolutely right that a cohort of young man — petty criminal — be be use , and not just by Russia ; there be other state that we could mention as well . it be important that those crime be deal with . before the Lord Chancellor finish his speech , can I direct he to part 4 of the Bill , which be one of the part that apply to the whole United Kingdom ? it provide for the deportation of criminal offender . have he consider the viability of that necessary clause , clause 42 , in the light of the fact that in Northern Ireland — because of article 2 of the Windsor framework — those offender sadly enjoy enhance protection due to the importation of the EU ' s charter of fundamental right ? will the Lord Chancellor take step to ensure that part 4 will apply to the whole United Kingdom by impose a notwithstanding clause , state that , notwithstanding article 2 of the Windsor framework , the same provision will apply across the United Kingdom ? it really would be preposterous if foreign criminal could be deport from one part of the United Kingdom but not from another . our intention be clear : foreign national offender must be remove from our system . we will study this issue in detail in Committee . I be proud that on my watch as Foreign Secretary , we increase return by 14 % . it be hugely important that people do not feel able to come to our country and commit crime , unimpeded . will the Lord Chancellor give way ? I think I must draw my remark to a conclusion , or I will upset Madam Deputy Speaker . keep the public safe be the purpose of sentencing , and it be the purpose of this Government . I commend this Bill to the House . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add " this House decline to give a second reading to the Sentencing Bill , despite support measure to well identify domestic abuser on sentencing , because the Bill will lead to an increase in the number of dangerous criminal on the street , put the public , particularly woman and girl , at risk , and this be compound by HM Inspectorate of Probation ' s find that HM Prison and Probation Service ' require improvement ' mean it be not equip to deal with the further pressure impose by this Bill ; because the Bill will undermine public confidence , particularly victim ' confidence , in the criminal justice system by enable serious violent and sexual offender to be release from prison early , and repeal measure to ensure law - enforcement and victim ' perspective be secure in parole decision ; and will cause further loss of public trust in the criminal justice system because it will not end the scandal of identity - base sentencing . " I welcome the Justice Secretary once again to his position , and congratulate he again on his demotion to Deputy Prime Minister . when he rise to introduce the Bill , I half - expect he to rise wave a flag instead of a Bill . it would not be a Union flag or a St George ' s flag , of course , although if he be incline , I would be happy to come to his constituency and help he put those up . it would be a white flag , because this Bill be nothing less than a complete and total surrender — a surrender of our street and our safety to the criminal presently terrorise they . the Justice Secretary be already a man know for surrender the Chagos island , but if this Bill pass , he will be remember as the man who surrender our street to criminal here at home , too . make no mistake : this plan will unleash a crime wave across the country , pave the way for fresh injustice on our street . the Secretary of State be fond of quote figure and principle , so let I quote some back for context . up to 43 , 000 criminal will avoid jail every year as a result of this plan . the number be eye - watering . that be more than half of all offender who currently go to jail . it be the big reduction in sentence in british history . the backbone of this Bill be a brand - new presumption against short sentence . in practice , it mean that Labour be abolish prison term under 12 month . it be all but impossible for an individual to be sentence for 12 month or less . who be these individual ? let we be honest with ourselves about who we be talk about here . burglar , shoplifter , thief and even thug convict of nasty assault will henceforth be spare jail and hand a community order instead . if we apply this Bill to those imprison last year , it would mean : up to 3 , 000 thug jail for assault an emergency worker avoid jail ; 1 , 200 violent offender convict of grievous bodily harm avoid jail ; 11 , 000 shoplifter terrorise community in each and every constituency avoid jail ; 2 , 700 burglar who rob family of their peace of mind avoid jail ; and 600 mugger who strike fear into people go about their daily business on the street of this country avoid jail . those figure be eye - watering . this be a " get out of jail free " card on an unprecedented scale . in the spirit of honesty , do the shadow Minister recognise that it be the previous Government who leave our prison at 99 % capacity for most of the recent year ? they let out 10 , 000 prisoner , largely in secret , and bring our criminal justice system to the brink of collapse . do he take responsibility for all of that ? the hon . Lady perhaps do not remember the last year of the last Labour Government . they let out 80 , 000 criminal on to our street . that be how they empty the prison — not by build more , but by open the door . we do not do that . there be a well way . another way be possible . a third of all those in our prison be either foreign national offender or individual on remand . the first answer to this challenge be to get the foreign national offender out of our prison and out of our country . the number of foreign prisoner in our prison have go up under Labour . the second answer be to fix the remand problem by get the court sit around the clock to get the court backlog down . what have happen to the court backlog ? it have go up . if the hon . Lady be look for someone to blame , she should look no far than those on her Front Bench . behind the many thousand of criminal who will walk free because of this Bill be thousand of victim , and each have a harrowing story . Daniel Tweed launch a vicious attack on his partner in their home in Northampton . he punch her multiple time . he drag she by her hair . he kick she and stamp on she . she be subsequently take to hospital . he be sentence to 12 month . [ interruption . ] someone say that be not enough , and I agree . Most people in this country would say that be not enough . that disgusting man should be in jail for far long , but under the Bill , violent domestic abuser like Daniel will walk free . I say to member , " be under no illusion about what you be vote for this evening : Daniel Tweed and man like he will walk free . " there be no specific domestic abuse carve - out from the presumption against short sentence . that be what we be vote on tonight . the truth that dare not speak its name , at least on the other side of the Chamber , be that the public know what many on this side know too : that many more people should be imprison for much , much long . successive government have fail to grasp that nettle , because they have give in to what the Justice Secretary , who , by the way , be a personal friend of mine — [ interruption . ] he be desperate to avoid that description . they have give in to what the Justice Secretary amplify today , namely the foolish idea that crime be an illness to be treat rather than a malevolent choice to be punish . we need a retributive justice system that recognise what the public recognise : that people like the thug whom my right hon . friend describe need to be punish , and punish severely . I could not agree more with my right hon . friend . the truth be this : most people in this country be already rage at the fact that prisoner get let out of prison early . they be sick of that happen under the last government , and what be this Government do in response ? they be let out more , and they be ask they to serve even short sentence . that be not justice . that be not what the people of this country want . I be strike by the example that my right hon . Friend give of someone who commit a vicious assault get only 12 month , and now get no month and no prison time at all . of course , it could work the other way round : it could be that when a judge be force to confront the fact that if he give a sentence of only 12 month for a vicious attack the prisoner will walk free , he will feel that he must make the sentence somewhat long — in which case the Government ' s plan to free up a prison space will not even work , will it ? my right hon . friend may well be right . a number of the policy introduce by this Government have have the most extraordinary unintended consequence . the Secretary of State say early that a number of people have be recall . that be because of the failure of the Government ' s policy ; it be because they let people out on early release when they should not have be let out . who know what the unintended consequence of these policy be ? but let I ask one thing of every Member of this House : think what you would say to the victim of Daniel Tweed . should that man be walk the street of this country , or should he be in jail ? I know what I would say . I know what we believe on this side of the House . minister defend this policy by say that short sentence be counterproductive , note that 62 % of offender who serve under 12 month reoffende within a year , but here ' s a thing : 100 % of criminal leave on the street have the opportunity to reoffend immediately . it be cold comfort to the victim of burglary that a man who ransack her home get a stern talk to , unpaid work or , bad , " prison outside prison " — that ludicrous and empty slogan put out by the Justice Secretary ' s predecessor — rather than even a few month behind bar . short sentence exist for a reason . sometimes a short sharp shock be exactly what be need to change behaviour , and sometimes a short sentence be the only thing stand between a dangerous individual and his or her next victim . the approach in this Bill be totally naive . the Government celebrate their new earn - release progression model as the centrepiece of the Bill — a Texas - inspire scheme , we be tell . well , this could not be far from Texas if the Justice Secretary try . Texas ' s incarceration rate be triple that of England . who exactly will benefit from the right hon . Gentleman ' s new scheme ? burglar , rapist , paedophile , and those convict of domestic abuse - relate offence such as battery , stalk , and coercive and control behaviour . disgracefully , all such prisoner who supposedly behave themselves will be release after serve just a third of their sentence — yes , one third . they have to behave themselves , not be rehabilitate , as the Secretary of State suggest . they do not have to come out with some skill , course or restorative justice ; they must just not be a thug while they be in jail . be that all we be ask for now ? only the so - call most dangerous offender be exclude . forgive I if I be not reassure . if a violent domestic abuser , who be give , say , nine year , can stroll out of prison in three year because he attend a few workshop and keep his nose clean on the inside , how exactly do that protect the public , how do that protect the victim and how be that justice ? the Conservative Government have move to toughen sentence for serious crime , require many violent and sexual offender to serve two third of their term before release precisely to stop such tragedy . now the Justice Secretary seek to reverse that vital progress and water it down again to half . hard - work , law - abide citizen be be tell that their safety hinge on a criminal ' s good behaviour after conviction , rather than the severity of the crime itself . public safety should depend on what criminal do to their victim and whether they remain a threat to the public , not on whether they earn gold star on a prison conduct chart . to sugar - coat the large reduction in sentence in the history of our country , the Government promise intensive supervision of offender in the community . even that assume that our Probation Service , which the Secretary of State be right to say be stretch to breaking point , have the capacity to monitor the beep light on all these new tracking device . at Justice question , he himself say that the contract be not work , yet we be now go to place even more reliance on tag — tag for goodness ' sake — but be that justice ? who exactly will watch the offender ? we be tell that probation officer be already swamp and that , struggle with huge caseload and staff shortage , they be at 104 % capacity . now , every petty thief , burglar and drug dealer who would have spend a few month in prison will instead be out in the community with a mere tag between they and their potential victim . be the Justice Secretary seriously suggest that this will stop a violent offender abuse their partner ? if he be , he should explain that to the House . what of the expand menu of community restriction of which minister be so proud ? the Bill give court the power to ban offender from certain activity and place — bar , pub , sporting event — and the press release issue to the medium gleefully talk about criminal be bar from football match and pub as a way to curtail their freedom . however , do any Labour mps here truly believe that these ban will strike fear into the heart of harden offender ? Don ' t be ridiculous ! a career burglar or repeat shoplifter will not quiver at the thought of be forbid from enter the Dog & Duck — ridiculous ! I turn to some of the less trumpet part of the Bill — the change to parole and the oversight of the Sentencing Council . these be technical on the surface , but they reveal much about the Government ' s priority . first , on parole , in a little - noticed clause — clause 38 — the Bill repeal the power that would have allow the Secretary of State to require certain parole board case to have particular member , such as ex - police officer , on the panel . that power be design by the last government to ensure that , for the most serious and high - stake release decision , there be a law enforcement perspective in the room , with someone who have see the bad of what offender can do . now the Justice Secretary have just scrap it entirely before it even come into force . so when a convict murderer or rapist come up for parole , they will no long be guarantee that there be a voice of law enforcement or a victim ' champion at the hearing . remove that safeguard tilt the balance far in favour of the prisoner ' s release . secondly , on the Sentencing Council , the Labour Government ' s Sentencing Bill lift its central idea from a Bill we previously put before the House , which they vote down but now support , have waste Parliament ' s time with an interim Act . yet after all that , they water it down . they propose to force the Sentencing Council , which draft judge ' guideline , to get approval from the Lord Chancellor and the Lord or Lady Chief Justice for new guideline and to submit an annual plan for ministerial sign - off . that be political oversight in principle — something Labour vote against when we propose a strong version — but in practice it be too little , too late . only after I raise this issue on the Floor of the House do Ministers scramble to block those outrageous guideline at the eleventh hour . even the former Justice Secretary have to admit that such " differential treatment be unacceptable " . but remember , if Labour have listen to we soon , this entire debacle would have be avoid . the Sentencing Council be a creature of the last Labour Government — a quango deliberately insulate from democratic accountability . we warn that an unchecked council would go rogue and it do . sure enough , it try to rewrite sentencing by stealth and almost succeed . labour ' s belate tweak , require ministerial sign - off on guideline , adopt our position that the council need democratic oversight , but it barely scratch the surface . the truth be that the council be a totally flawed structure . when Labour set it up in 2009 , they make it answerable to nobody . as a result , an unelected body nearly smuggle in identity - base sentencing . if the Justice Secretary really oppose identity - base sentencing , let we look at what be in the pipeline . will he use this power on the forthcoming immigration guideline , sign off by the previous Labour Lord Chancellor , which will deny Parliament ' s clear will that immigration offender should be lock up and subject to automatic deportation ? will he scrap those guideline ? they be in his in - tray . he be take the power to do so . it be on he . despite this be a new role for the right hon . Gentleman , I be sorry to say that the Justice Secretary can not feign ignorance on this approach . it be his 2017 review that fixate on statistical disparity in the justice system . his answer be not to enforce the law impartially ; it be to impose outcome by quota . his review ' s guide principle be " explain or reform " , effectively demand that if an institution can not explain a disparity in minority outcome , it must change its practice until the number look equal . in theory , that sound like hold the system to account . in reality , it invite social engineering and double standard . the right hon . Gentleman openly champion equity over equality . in plainer term , that mean believe in bias by design — a justice system that explicitly favour some group in order to tweak the statistic . we just see the consequence of that thinking . the Sentencing Council ' s two - tier guideline be a textbook application of the Justice Secretary ' s long - hold belief : a two - tier system where justice be not blind , as it must be , but rather squint at your skin colour , your gender , your faith or your age before decide how to punish you . on the conservative Benches , we will always believe in the universal principle of equality before the law , not equity . that be the difference . turn to the matter of foreign criminal , for all the right hon . Gentleman ' s remark , as of 30 June this year there be 10 , 772 foreign national in our prison — 12 % of the total . that be up on last year . I be enjoy the right hon . Gentleman ' s one - man show on why he should be leader of the conservative party . he will get no argument from I on the fact that we need to reduce the number of foreign national offender in our prison — I agree that that be what we do need to do , as do my party . however , between 2019 and 2024 under his government , the number increase by 12 % . he know that it be a difficult thing to achieve ; he know there be no simple answer , because if there be , his party would have do it when it be in government . rather than offer simple magic - wand solution , what be he actually suggest that we do to deliver a reduction ? if he know the answer , why do he not do it when he be in government ? the hon . Gentleman be on rocky ground , because the Justice Secretary literally put his name to a letter stop the then government deport foreign criminal from our country back to their own country . [ interruption . ] he do , I be afraid , as I think do the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary . you literally could not make it up , Madam Deputy Speaker . what be the answer to the question from the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) ? it be simple : change our human right law and address the european convention on human right so that it be possible to remove each and every foreign national offender in a timely fashion , and then use every lever of the british state — whether it be revoke visa or suspend foreign aid — to achieve that . let I give the House an example of just how ludicrous the present situation be . when the Justice Secretary be Foreign Secretary , it be report that he get into a debate with Pakistan over whether it would take back three groom gang perpetrator — rapist — to their home country . Pakistan hold out , say that in return for take back its own citizen — despicable rape gang perpetrator — we need to agree to resume flight from a disreputable airline that have have safety challenge in the past . how weak be this country ? how weak be this country that we will not stand up to that ? we be give more than £ 100 million a year in foreign aid to Pakistan . we should be use every lever of the british state to get these people out of our country and our prison so that we do not have to carry out the early release of dangerous people , which be what this Bill will do . rise — I must make progress — I need to bring my remark to a close . in plain English , there be more fno overall , and more fno sex offender in particular , while those on Labour ' s Front Bench have spend year campaign against their removal . that will change only if the Justice Secretary confront the broken echr , which be the big legal obstacle to their removal — everything else be tinker . for the good of the country , I urge the Justice Secretary to support anyone within the Government who seek change to the echr , because he will never resolve this challenge without that change . the Sentencing Bill be soft on crime , soft on criminal and brutal on the hard - work , law - abide people of this country . it offer oven - ready excuse to offender to get out of jail early and cold comfort to victim . the Justice Secretary have a choice : he can plough ahead with this farce and watch as our street be sweep by the come crime wave , or he can heed our warning — share by victim group and root in common sense — and think again . the british people deserve safe street . instead , under this Bill , they be go to get a jailbreak . a crime wave be come . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . prison in England and Wales be almost at capacity . the prison population currently stand at 87 , 578 , with a current operational capacity of 89 , 664 . the late prison population projection estimate that the population will rise to between 95 , 700 and 105 , 200 by March 2029 . this troubling picture mean that reform be essential if we be to reduce the prison population and return to a functional criminal justice system . I welcome the reform suggest in the Bill ; they be both a necessity and the right direction of travel for an effective prison system . the Government have take up most of the recommendation make in David Gauke ' s independent sentencing review , which if take together will reduce the number in custody by almost 10 , 000 . the prison system be in a unique place . it will be accommodate the high number of inmate in history while work hard to find non - custodial punishment for a grow number of offender . this be necessary follow the irresponsible neglect of the criminal justice system under successive Tory Governments . it be also the first step to a prison and probation system that put rehabilitation alongside punishment as an objective — that objective be a reduction in reoffende , with beneficial outcome for offender , victim and the taxpayer alike . I have no issue with the strategy , but I have serious concern about the specific measure need to achieve its purpose . I be grateful to the hon . member for give way ; he be always courteous in the Chamber . let we be clear : be the Bill a result of too few prison place — I acknowledge , by the way , that successive government have build too few prison — or be it drive by a certain ideology ? be it about rehabilitation , which I describe as the treatmentist approach to crime ? there be a confused message emanating from this Chamber . on the one hand we be tell that it be a matter of convenience , because we do not have the place , but on the other hand we be tell it be a matter of principle , because we do not believe in prison . where do the hon . member stand on that ? the right hon . member be not easily confused . I will turn to exactly that point later , but in brief it be both , and there be a contradiction in it be both . there be go to be a massive expansion in prison place , and there be go to be more people in prison . however , at the same time , partly to reduce the need for even more prison to be build and partly because there be alternative to custody , there will be people leave prison as well . it be a difficult trick to pull off , I appreciate , but I be sure that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State be up to the task . the Sentencing Bill shift the focus from custodial sentence to deal with offender in the community . it be paramount , therefore , that probation service be adequately fund to manage the substantial increase in workload and that support resource , such as electronic monitoring , be available and reliable . there be several measure in the Bill that will increase the pressure on probation service . these include a statutory presumption to suspend custodial sentence of 12 month or less ; an extension of the availability of suspend sentence to three year rather than two ; and new community order , include those that ban offender from public event and drinking establishment , prohibit offender from drive and impose restriction zone on they . in the 2023 - 24 annual report and account for the Prison and Probation Service , the overall annual leaving rate for Probation Service staff be over 10 % . his Majesty ' s inspectorate of probation say : " high workload and a lack of support be critical factor in drive practitioner away from their role " . a report leak to the BBC estimate that there be currently a shortfall of around 10 , 000 probation staff , which be four or five time the number be recruit . I welcome the extra £ 700 million pledge during the spending review period to assist the Probation Service in deal with the increase pressure . it will be vital in fill the shortfall and increase staff retention . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State acknowledge that in response to I during Justice question today . the success of the measure in the Bill rely heavily on the use of electronic monitoring , primarily through the use of tag . the Justice Committee have continually raise its concern about the performance of Serco , the Government ' s current tagging provider . in correspondence with the Committee date 7 May this year , the Prisons Minister reveal to we the shocking fact that Serco have receive financial penalty for poor performance every month since it take on the electronic monitoring contract a year early . in oral evidence give to the Committee , Ministers have recognise that Serco ' s performance have be unacceptable and that strong punishment for Serco be possible , should it continue to fail . those should include possible debarment and exclusion from bid for public contract . indeed , some of we wonder how Serco be ever award that contract by the previous Government after the appalling fraud it commit during its previous tenure as contractor . minister have reassure we that Serco ' s performance be begin to improve . it be difficult to see how the Government can continue to have faith in Serco , but it be also evident that they can not easily shift to another contractor as there appear to be no viable alternative . naturally , I have assume that if people be not go to serve short sentence , in many case they would be tag . it be worry to hear what the hon . Member be say about Serco ' s performance . be he say that effectively the people be tag be not be properly monitor ? in which case , do that not bring the viability of the whole system into question ? that be a valid concern . minister assure we that performance on the contract be improve in exactly those area , but we be not just wait for that improvement ; we be introduce a huge additional burden , because all those offender who will now remain in the community , rather than be incarcerate , will need tag . I worry that an unreliable contractor with a poor record — even if it be improve — be be give a great additional burden . let I turn to another aspect of the Bill . it amend the Criminal Justice Act 2003 to revise down the statutory release point for standard determinate sentence prisoner to one third , although additional day add to time in custody as a consequence of breach of the Prison Rules 1999 , know as adjudication , will be serve after the one - third point . those change follow the sentencing review ' s recommendation that the Government should introduce an earn progression model for those serve sds . the review argue that , as a large proportion of offender will be release after one third of their sentence , " custodial sentence should be use to incentivise good behaviour and focus on limit the risk of reoffende . " as the sentencing review set out : " the criterion for compliance should also include the expectation that the offender will engage in purposeful activity and attend any require work , education , treatment and / or training obligation where these be available . " the review also hold the view that , " as prison capacity ease and full regime become possible , compliance requirement for earn release should become more demanding . " I would appreciate clarity from the Minister on what exactly be mean by a " more demanding " regime . the Justice Committee be currently halfway through its inquiry into the rehabilitation and resettlement of offender . it have hear of the difficulty that prison face in administer proper rehabilitation programme when prison be full , which result in most of their effort be focus on deal with day - to - day incident and combat widespread drug use . rehabilitative programme also vary greatly between prison . I welcome the step take towards an earn progression model in the Bill and hope they can free up capacity to allow for a well and more consistent rehabilitative regime . it be important that once the change be make , rehabilitative regime remain robust and continue to be focus on combat the behaviour that lead to reoffende , rather than be focus primarily on prisoner meet the goal that lead to their early release — that be a rare point of agreement with the shadow Lord Chancellor . under the earn progression model , there be also the possibility that some prisoner may stay in prison for long than they currently would as they do not meet the new criterion for release and be require to serve additional day . that , of course , will put far strain on the number in prison . prisoner should be provide with clear guidance set out how they should implement the earn progression model . this will ensure consistency for prisoner subject to the model and ensure that victim be inform of what to expect under the scheme . in brief , we need to ensure , first , that the reason for rehabilitation be clear — be they undertake additional work , or be they simply keep their nose clean in prison ? we need to consider how rehabilitation will be use in prison in future , and we need look at every aspect of incarceration as to how the earn progression model will work . the Bill contain two clause that make provision relate to the Sentencing Council . clause 19 introduce a statutory obligation on the Sentencing Council to obtain joint approval from the Lord Chancellor and the Lady Chief Justice for all sentencing guideline before final definitive guideline be issue . it be bear out of the disagreement of the former Lord Chancellor with the Sentencing Council early this year regard the revise guideline on the imposition of community and custodial sentence . the revised guideline be the subject of much , and often poor - quality , political debate at the time . the former Lord Chancellor promise to far review the Sentencing Council ' s power during the Bill stage of the Sentencing Guidelines ( Pre - sentence Reports ) Act 2025 in April this year . on Second Reading , I express my concern that it could cause " damage to the relationship between Parliament , the Executive and the judiciary . " — — [ Official Report , 22 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 1012 . ] I also express regret about how it have be use to support attack on the judiciary . concern have be raise regard the impact that the Lord Chancellor ' s veto in clause 19 could have on the judicial independence of the Sentencing Council . however , if we be to have a double lock , perhaps we should have a triple lock . one suggestion that be make to I be that the Justice Committee — as well as or instead of the Lord Chancellor — should be grant the power to veto or approve guideline . that would operate alongside the equivalent power of the Lady Chief Justice . it would go beyond the Committee ' s current role as a statutory consultee for ordinary Sentencing Council guideline , but the logic would be to rebalance power so that democratic parliamentary oversight be give to the guideline , rather than there be a veto on behalf of only the Executive and the judiciary . one area not cover in the Gauke review or the Bill be the question of those who be in prison on imprisonment for public protection sentence . it have be 12 year since the last IPP sentence be hand down , yet around 2 , 500 people be still serve IPP sentence in prison . it be now widely acknowledge that the nature of such sentence cause serious distress for those who be serve they and their loved one . I welcome the Government ' s progress in reduce the number of IPP prisoner , with a 9 % reduction in the year to 31 March 2025 . More could still be do , but the work be do through the action plan by the current Prisons Minister , and indeed the previous sentencing Minister , have go some way towards achieve that . in 2022 , the previous Justice Committee recommend that a resentencing exercise should be carry out to bring the sentencing for IPP prisoner into line with current sentencing practice . successive government have choose not to take up that recommendation . my position remain that a resentence exercise be the most effective and comprehensive way to reduce the number of IPP prisoner , and I think IPP prisoner should have be include in this legislation . in conclusion , I welcome the legislation and commend the Government for bring forward these bold reform . however , I note that there be a number of area where more detail be need and where I can see challenge in its implementation . many of the measure in the Bill will place extra pressure on an already stretch Probation Service . I hope that some of the issue that I have highlight can be cover during the Bill ' s passage through the House , despite the limited time that we will have in Committee of the whole House . I and my colleague on the Justice Committee will consider way in which we may be able to press the Government on point of concern through amendment . I hope that the Bill will go at least some way towards solve our prison crisis and restore the faith of the public in our damage criminal justice system . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the last Conservative Government crash our criminal justice system , and ever since it be victim who have be pay the price . the shadow Justice Secretary speak today of surrender , but who be it that surrender victim to year - long wait for trial ? they do . who surrender victim to reoffende rate through the roof ? they do . who surrender victim to a fail tagging regime ? they do . who surrender victim to their own early release scheme , with no specific exclusion for domestic abuser ? they do . this be not justice ; this be conservative chaos . will the hon . Gentleman just remind the House with whom the Conservatives be in coalition for several year when they start their 14 - year term ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention , but should he look at the figure for 2015 , he will see that all the thing that I have describe surge under the last Conservative Government . it be chaos and it can not go on . the Bill contain a number of measure that Lib Dems have propose to help fix our pummelled prison and crash court , but it also contain some problematic provision that will need to be address if the Bill be properly to deliver justice for victim and survivor . the Liberal Democrats therefore cautiously support the Bill on Second Reading , but unless considerable change be make throughout the remainder of the legislative process , the Government can not expect our support any far . follow a long campaign on one of the measure in the Bill , work with fellow victim and survivor of domestic abuse , I be hearten that the Government be honour the commitment they make to they and to I to create a formal domestic abuse identifi in the criminal law for the first time . convicted abuser will fly under the radar no long . I thank the survivor who campaign on this alongside we , include Elizabeth Hudson , as well as woman ' s aid , Refuge , Victim Support , ManKind and the 50 , 000 people who sign my petition in favour of great identification of domestic abuse in the law . I do not know that the hon . Gentleman have do that , so may I congratulate he on that ? what he say be absolutely right and will , I think , be widely welcome across the House . however , I must press he on one point . do he , like I , believe that such people , once catch and convict , should spend much long in prison ? do he agree that they should be incarcerate because punishment be the right thing for people who have do wicked thing , spoil life , and hurt family , hurt woman and hurt child ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . speak as a survivor of domestic and child abuse myself , and as someone who have be hurt in those very contexts , I have significant sympathy and alignment with a lot of what he describe . when I come to the domestic abuse identifier later , I will talk about how I think that should play out when it come to the presumption against short sentence . we will be closely monitor the force of the new identifier through its implementation , and we will continue to make the case for a full aggravate offence of domestic abuse to strengthen the identifier . can the Government confirm that they will work with organisation such as Fair Hearing to provide domestic abuse training for judge and magistrate , so that the domestic abuse determination that they make under clause 6 of the Bill can be inform by domestic abuse survivor ' experience ? we also welcome measure to introduce a presumption against short sentence , which we know be fail to reduce reoffende . accord to Ministry of Justice figure , 62 % of people receive a sentence of 12 month or less go on to reoffend . this compare with a 24 % reoffending rate for equivalent suspend sentence . however , there must be an exclusion for domestic abuse offence . for domestic abuse victim and survivor , the respite period — as it be often refer to — represent by a custodial sentence for their abuser be critical . will the Government commit to exclude any offender convict of a crime where the new domestic abuse identifier be apply from the presumption against short sentence ? we welcome the reasonable and proportionate use of robust community sentence and licence condition in the context of the earn progression model , but the Probation Service must have the tool it need to manage this . I be sure we will hear again that the Government have pledge £ 700 million to the Probation Service to help enhance its capacity , but how will they resolve the 2 , 315 full - time equivalent shortfall in probation officer by next spring when those measure be set to be enact ? on some of the new condition , the income reduction order and the additional drive prohibition power may disincentivise or even inhibit employment , which be a key factor when it come to rehabilitation and reduce reoffende . how will the Government militate against that unintended consequence of potentially drive up reoffende through those measure ? the recall provision need to change . it can not be the case that offender can benefit from an automatic " get out of jail free " card after 56 day , with no assessment by the Parole Board before re - release . the Bill also threaten the independence of the judiciary from the Government by grant the Lord Chancellor a veto over judge - make sentencing guideline . that look like textbook Executive overreach , and it must be review . on foreign national offender , the Bill offer placeholder for secondary legislation , which will evade scrutiny by the whole House . our constituent instead deserve clarity and full parliamentary scrutiny of that matter , and I hope the Minister will commit to provide that . beyond that , there be lot miss from this legislation . as the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) say , where be the reform on IPP sentence ? where be David Gauke ' s recommendation of an independent advisory body on prison capacity ? where be the measure to prevent offending in the first instance and not just to increase the supply of prison place ? where be the statutory footing for the publication of sentencing remark for those victim of sex offence in perpetuity ? I will ask many more question throughout the process , but I hope the Government will work with we and with the victim and survivor whose concern we have all be platforme this evening to make significant improvement in the bill which fix the criminal justice system that the Conservatives break , while afford victim the freedom , dignity and welfare they need . the police in Torbay tell I that in Paignton and Torquay town centre a number of habitual offender see a call back to prison as just a professional risk . do my hon . friend agree that after year of a lack of investment by the Conservatives , we need to see investment in rehabilitation to help keep those individual on the straight and narrow ? I completely agree with my hon . friend , and I refer to the comment I make on recall . as someone who spend their career set up an organisation that support young ex - offender out of crime and into employment , I know that investment in rehabilitation be key . rehabilitation prevent reoffende , and prevent reoffende prevent victim , reduce misery and improve life . I hope the Government have hear loud and clear where we stand on this issue . we stand ready to work with they to improve the Bill . I rise to speak in the debate from the perspective of a former serve police officer ; I see first hand how our justice system far too often fail community and , most importantly , victim — repeat offender cycle in and out of custody , victim live in fear , and prison at break point . that be why we need urgent reform and why I welcome this Government ' s deliver the most significant change to sentence in over a generation . last summer , prison overcrowding reach an all - time high , as we have hear . our system be stretch to crisis level , and we can not let that happen again . the independent sentencing review expose what many of we work in the system know all too well : too few prison space , too little support for victim and short sentence do nothing to cut reoffende . the Conservatives extend sentence for serious crime by almost two year on average , but build just 500 new place in 14 year . the result be prison so overstretch that 10 , 000 offender have to be release early . that be unacceptable and unsustainable , and it must not happen again . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to build 14 , 000 prison place over the next decade ; 2 , 500 have be add already . the expansion of the prison estate by 10 , 000 additional place through new houseblock and through refurbishment , include for category d prison , be rate " red " because the supplier have go into administration . I hear nothing this morning from the Minister about what the Government be do to ensure that the plan stay on track . do the hon . Gentleman share my concern ? I would share those concern , but I have complete faith and confidence in my Front - Bench colleague — more so than the previous Government . build new place alone be not enough . if we be serious about cut crime , we must change the way in which sentencing work and future - proof the justice system . in the police force , I see victim live in fear as violent offender be release early , while petty offender waste away in jail cell serve short sentence that do nothing to change their behaviour and nothing to make our community safe . I also see the opposite : community sentence — the tough and visible one that we be talk about — give offender a chance to change course . I remember offender clean graffiti , clear rubbish and , for the first time , make a positive contribution to the very community that they have once damage . for some vulnerable offender , a short prison stay be not a deterrent but a danger . it expose they to harden criminal , pull they into more violent lifestyle and lead they far down a path of reoffende . that be why the Bill ' s provision to suspend short sentence in favour of unpaid work and community service - style punishment be so important . do properly , such sentence can foster community cohesion by make offender visibly repay the public for the damage that they have do , reassure victim that wrongdoer be hold to account , and deter crime by break the cycle of reoffende that short sentence too often fuel . another thing that be close to my heart be the idea that victim and survivor deserve a system that keep they safe and listen to their fear — too often , they do not have that . that be why I welcome the provision for victim in this Bill . domestic abuse will now be explicitly call out in court , create a clear and consistent record that will help to protect victim and manage offender . specialist domestic abuse court will mean strong support for victim and proper rehabilitation for abuser . victim of rape and sexual offence will have access to judge ' sentencing remark and well information . and above all , the purpose of sentencing will now place the protection of victim at the heart of justice . I will continue to advocate for transparency so that victim can understand how sentencing work . after experience crime , they should not have to face a justice system that leave they in the dark . we need to do more for victim , such as give they unfiltered victim statement and allow they to say what they want during sentencing , but that be a step for another Bill . in my policing day , I see how victim be leave unheard and unprotected , and how sentencing fail to deliver justice or reduce crime . the Bill begin to put that right . we be build prison place , reform sentencing and put victim — finally — at the centre of justice . that be what the public expect , it be what victim deserve , and it be what this Labour Government will deliver . the Bill be about turn sentencing from a revolving door into a system that protect victim and cut crime . we need more prison and prison place , but I find the conservative case absolutely incoherent . they talk about be tough on crime , but they close police station , closed court , cut the number of police officer and completely fail to deliver the number of prison place that they speak about — talk tough without deliver the good . frankly , that do not work and the country have have enough of it . we need to move on . I recognise , however , that court need to make great use of community sentence . court need to be agile , and they need tool that deal harshly with persistent offending . community sentence can do that . default to prison every time , almost fetishise prison , care nothing about the victim of petty criminal who be send to prison for short stay , where they learn more about crime than they have ever learn in their whole life , and then come out and reoffend . we hear no concern from Conservative Members about the victim of reoffende . why not ? it be not convenient for their argument that prison be always the answer . community sentence , demonstrate that people be pay back to their community and society , can be a tough sentence and the right sentence . do the hon . Member agree that require an offender to look at the root cause of their offending be far from the easy option ? face up to those life difficulty be very hard , but it be a really effective way of stop the cycle of offending . the hon . Lady make a compelling point about the depth to which that kind of sentencing can go . the lack of concern from Conservative Members about reoffende after short - term prison stay be surprising , to say the least . come down hard on crime mean we need to bring back proper community policing , quick justice that halve the time between the offence and the sentence , and well and tough supervision of community sentence , as set out in our Lib Dem manifesto . my hon . friend the Member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) refer to our position on the Bill , which I wholeheartedly support , and he do a tremendous job . in my Taunton and Wellington constituency , I be work with local business and the police to try to stamp out shop that be trade illegally . time and again , police and trading standard raid premise and find counterfeit cigarette or unlicensed alcohol , with evidence of sale to under - age youngster . however , I have speak to the police about this , and they find that the only person they can put before the court be the individual behind the counter — a fall guy for the shadowy layer of owner who lie behind the business . connive and cowardly fraudster be basically employ and put behind the counter vulnerable people who often have little grasp of the law and the regulation that apply . all criminal behaviour deserve to be punish , but sentence the fall guy for up to 10 year in prison , as provide for in the Trade Marks Act 1994 , do not effectively deal with the menace of dangerous good be sell to our child . the convict man or woman often deserve less blame than their employer , while those employer — the shadowy boss — simply open a new business under a new name in the same shop and carry on trading illegally , with a different fall guy behind the counter . back in 2008 , research in the British Medical Journal find that " smuggled tobacco kill four time more people than all illicit drug combine " . in 2018 , the Mesothelioma Center report on a study of counterfeit cigarette import into Australia from China which show alarming result : " each cigarette be pack with up to 80 percent more nicotine and emit 130 percent more carbon monoxide . worse still , many contain other impurity such as rat poison , trace of lead , dead fly , human and animal fece and asbestos . " it be a menace that we have to deal with . why should those who be trade honestly — like my constituent who run shop , pub and business , sustain town centre and community across Taunton and Wellington — and pay their taxis be force to compete with criminal enterprise , for which it take month and month to obtain a closure order under the current legal process ? be it not time to change the law to " one strike and you ' re out " when it come to shop trade in illegal substance ? why must it take month for such order to be grant ? why can we not empower the police officer in my constituency , who be as frustrated as I be , to close down premise overnight ? I hope that the Secretary of State will meet I to discuss that aspect of the legislation — I will explain that to he afterwards , if I have the chance , because I be not quite sure that he catch it . be tough on this kind of crime should mean be swift with the punishment . that would put a stop to the behaviour immediately , and rightly send a shiver down the spine of any shop owner contemplate illegal sale . in conclusion , although well supervision be need , tough new community sentence include tagging be welcome to deter repeat offending . that will not increase the reoffending in the way that prison often do . there be , though , a wide lesson : sentencing reform alone be not enough when the real culprit be able to hide in the shadow . we need to strengthen the power of the police and council not only to prosecute the individual at the counter , but to close down the premise that police know be repeatedly flout the law . if we do not , we risk punish the least powerful while allow the real fraudster to keep rake in their gain , to keep harm our child , and to keep evade their taxis . I welcome the Bill for many of the reason already highlight by the Justice Secretary and many labour colleague early . my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) make many of the point that I wish to make so , because of the shortage of time , I do not intend to repeat they , although I would like to reinforce they . the Bill be a bold step towards ease the pressure on our overcrowded prison and repair a criminal justice system so badly break by the conservative party ' s agenda of economically illiterate austerity . however , concern have be express to I by the trade union — include Napo , which represent probation staff — especially on the extra workload that the Bill will mean for their member . I say respectfully to the Minister and to the Justice Secretary that I hope they will engage fully with the justice union as the Bill progress in order to address these legitimate concern in good faith . robust community sentence in the right circumstance — contrary to what many Opposition member have be say — can offer a well and more effective alternative to prison , provide that they be support by new tagging technology , but only if that be do correctly . at Justice question this morning , the Justice Secretary give some excellent response to concern raise about the exist contract that the previous Government sign with Serco . indeed , the Government ' s own assessment suggest that change will be require , and the change will require hundred of additional probation officer in order to keep the public safe . early release for good behaviour be support by the union , provide that prisoner show that they be turn their life around and address the issue behind their offending . again , early release come at a cost , and at a cost to the Probation Service . other measure in the Bill have be welcome by people work in the sector . probation staff have long complain that rehabilitation activity requirement and post - sentence supervision , which be leftover from the previous Government ' s fail privatisation experiment , be ineffective and time - consume . Napo be therefore relieve to see the Bill abolish they for good . although it be true that this will free up more staff time , the Bill still put additional pressure on the Probation Service . yes , the extra resource already announce by minister will help to bring more staff into the service , but what will make they stay ? attrition rate — the rate of skilled probation officer leave the service — be appal . that be unsurprising , give the unbearable workload for staff on top of 15 year of real - term pay cut and a degradation in the service preside over by the previous Administration . I be also tell that the Government still have not make a formal pay offer to probation staff this year , so I respectfully encourage Ministers to reflect on how good to hold on to these key worker , who perform such a vital and demanding role . the Bill would benefit from strong safeguard around tagging and unpaid work , to ensure that the big beneficiary be the public at large , not profit - hungry private corporation . we have hear many time in the House recently , include at Justice question this morning , about Serco ' s catalogue of contractual failure , especially with electronic monitoring . as we expand the use of tagging , we should try our hard to reduce private sector involvement , partly because it have prove to be such a costly failure in the past and partly because this new form of punishment should be harness and use for the public good , not private profit . the Government have earmark an extra £ 4 million a year at least for tag expansion , but that money must not be use simply to line the pocket of rip - off fail privateer . in conclusion , if we want to turn our criminal justice system around , we must work hard to prioritise public good , not private profit . I know that this Labour Government share that ambition and I hope that they will work closely with their own frontline worker in the Probation Service to fully realise the benefit that the Bill could bring . it have become increasingly clear that we see huge discrepancy across sentencing for offence . comparatively trivial offence receive stiff penalty , while serious crime appear to go relatively or actually unpunished . there be an increase feeling that the punishment rarely fit the crime , that the law be soft , that criminal act with impunity and that justice have become hard to come by . I would like to recount a story about a family from my constituency . Michael Gough be a keen cyclist and have be cycle weekly , on Saturday morning , with a group of four friend for a number of year . he would head off early , before 8 am , and go out for three to four hour , return home by lunch time . he ride all over Cambridgeshire , usually cover between 35 km to 50 km on a ride . as a keen cyclist myself , who ride the same road and the same sort of distance , I know what a joy it be to get out on my bike at the weekend . on 16 March last year , Mike and the group go out as usual . his daughter , Kim , recall what happen as the family wait for he to return : " I have go to mum ' s around 12 . 25 and we set off shortly after . Mum do think it be unusual dad wasn ' t back yet , but he do like to talk so think he ' d probably have an extra cuppa at their cake and cuppa stop . we only make it round the corner when my phone start to ring . Mum pick it up and answer it as she notice it be dad ' s friend Tim call . I pull over as soon as I could . Tim have say there have be an accident and dad have be knock off his bike " . the family make their way to the scene of the accident on George Street , in Huntingdon town centre . " we be stand in the street outside Elphicks , opposite Wetherspoons , wait not have a clue what be go on . lot of the public be walk up the street and be allow to walk up and past the scene of the accident to get to where they want to go but we be tell we have to wait . after a while an officer come down from the scene to talk to we . he ask we to sit in the back of the police car where we be tell that dad have be knock off his bike and have die from his injury . " the post - mortem subsequently outline that Mike have be crush across his chest and could not be resuscitate . it be not until December 2024 , some nine month later , that the Crown Prosecution Service charge the driver with cause death by careless driving . a further six month later , on 27 June 2025 , the driver — Dennis Roberts , aged 74 — plead guilty to cause death by careless driving . he be ban from drive with immediate effect . Roberts be give a one - year sentence suspend for two year , a two - year driving ban and 250 hour ' unpaid work , and be order to pay court charge of around £ 200 . as Kim say : " the sentence be within the guideline of the law , but do the law fit the crime ? he have live his life like normal for 18 month , whilst we have lose our dad , husband , friend , grandad , and live the last 18 month encompass in a whirlwind of grief . even after sentence he continue to live his life , just with a small inconvenience of not be able to drive and give up a few hour to work unpaid . how be that justice ? " Mike ' s tragic and untimely death be sadly not an outlier , but the current sentencing guideline for cause death by careless driving be far too lenient , give the impact that such a tragedy clearly have on family and love one . the factor determine culpability as " careless " as oppose to " dangerous " be largely subjective and the difference between they be opaque , but it be the factor reduce seriousness or reflect personal mitigation that I find difficult to understand . a good driving record be take into account upon have kill someone through carelessness . the inexperience of the driver be take into account upon have kill someone through carelessness . effort make to assist or to seek assistance for the victim be take into account upon have kill someone through carelessness . a lack of maturity be take into account upon have kill someone through carelessness . a mental disorder or learn disability be take into account upon have kill someone through carelessness . a deprived background be take into account upon have kill someone through carelessness . the prospect of education be take into account upon have kill someone through carelessness . what prospect do the victim have now — or their family or dependant ? these mitigate factor beggar belief . this be not a trivial offence or a victimless crime ; it be one that devastate live . would any one of we here who lose their partner , child or parent to the carelessness of someone ' s drive be content to see that person leave court with little more than the inconvenience of have to get a lift home ? furthermore , the minimum level of sentencing start at a medium - level community order to one year ' s custody . the bare minimum must be a custodial sentence , and it must not be suspend . if we be to trivialise a crime with the most serious outcome — that of ultimately take a life , even through carelessness — then what price stiff sentence for less serious crime ? I would not wish anyone to suffer the trauma of endure such a tragedy , but those who sadly do should at least take comfort that justice have be serve . we must stiffen the sentence for cause death by careless driving . we must eliminate the ludicrous mitigation factor that offer too much opportunity for offender to avoid justice . we must ensure that victim and their family get justice . to prevent other from suffer the lack of justice that Mike and his family have endure , I will table an amendment to address this issue and ensure that Mike ' s death be not in vain . when this government come into power last year , we inherit a prison system on the brink of collapse . after 14 year of Tory neglect and underfunding , our prison be at break point . if we have not act , prison place would have run out within week . when our prison be full , violence rise , put prison officer at risk . when no cell be available , suspect can not be hold in custody , which mean that vanload of dangerous people be circle the country with nowhere to go . that be the appalling situation that the Conservatives leave we with . rather than let that happen , this Government take decisive action and be ensure the future of the system by introduce this landmark piece of legislation . there be many forward - think measure in this Bill . this be about create a sentencing system that punish those who commit crime , ensure that victim see justice serve . it be also about create a system that work for rehabilitate those who have commit crime and , critically , prevent reoffende . similarly to the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , I will focus my remark on drive ban and vehicle crime . since become an MP , I have hear countless story from family and individual who have lose love one or have love one seriously injure on our road . I have hear horrific story of grandmother kill in hit - and - run , and of tiny toddler whose life have be cut short by driver race around in steal car and flee the scene . these family have be let down by huge backlog that have be in the system for year . I have be work closely with the charity RoadPeace , which be mention early . it have open my eye to all the way in which the system be fail . I be shocked to find out that even after someone have be charge with cause death by dangerous driving , they be often allow to continue drive until they be actually find guilty , which can take year and year ; that may be similar to the case that be just mention . the thing I find most shocking be that once offender be release from prison , they often have incredibly short driving ban . one such case be that of a woman who end up in prison after take the life of a man from Tividale in my area . Martyn Gall be an experienced cyclist . he be kill by a woman who be on her phone for her entire journey — send message , take picture and use social medium app behind the wheel . the first call she make after hit Martyn be not 999 ; it be to her sister . that driver be sentence to four and a half year in prison , but follow her release she will have a drive ban of only five year — which I and diane , Martyn ' s wife , think be far too lenient for the suffering that she have cause . another indication of the historical failure of the system be the chronic rate of reoffende in our country . we know that half of all crime in the UK be commit by just 10 % of offender . the campaign group Crush Crime have highlight example of chronic offender , who commit crime again and again . unfortunately , the same be true of serious driving offence . datum release to I follow a parliamentary question show that nearly 20 % of offender convict of dangerous driving in 2024 have commit a similar offence previously . of those offender , 6 % have receive several conviction for dangerous driving , and the bad the offence , the high the reoffende rate . while nearly 20 % of those convict of dangerous driving be reoffender , less than 5 % of those convict of careless driving have a previous conviction . the length of ban give to those who commit these serious offence need to be much long . let I give the House some example . one man hit a 13 - year - old girl in a 60 mph hit and run . the child suffer life - change injury . the perpetrator already have a conviction for dangerous driving , yet when he be release from prison , he only receive a five - year driving ban . in another case , a woman who be do 60 mph in a 30 zone smash into a taxi . she be uninsured , be under the influence of cannabis , and have a baby in the front seat . it be her second driving conviction that week , but she be give a drive ban of just two year and five month . Jane Haynes , a campaigning journalist from the Birmingham Mail , alert I to one of the very bad case I have hear of . Grant Meredith - Trafford be do more than double the 30 mph limit on Tipton Road in the Black Country when he mow down and kill a 64 - year - old pedestrian in January 2023 . the driver speed away and try to cover his track — he go on the run for week and hide in a country hotel . the most shocking part be that he be already disqualify from drive . follow the crash , he be jail for 15 year and ban from drive for 17 year . even though the judge describe the case as " one of the most serious case of its kind … in recent time " , the offender still do not receive a lifetime driving ban . I think most of the public would be shock that some of these people will ever be allow behind the wheel again , yet the reality be that just 1 % of people who be convict of cause death by dangerous driving in 2024 have their licence revoke for life . I think the public would also be shock to realise how many people with 12 point on their licence be still on our road . in 2021 , research by Cycling UK find that one in five people be spare an automatic ban when they reach 12 point by claim exceptional hardship — for example , that they need their car for their job . in my view , if a person require a licence for their job , they should be extra careful on our road . the exceptional hardship frame be be apply far too liberally , and this loophole need to be address . I encourage Ministers to look at how we can tighten up the rule around that loophole and lengthen drive ban as this Bill progress through Parliament . my final point be how important it be that the Bill use drive ban as part of community sentence and licence condition . drive be a privilege , not an inalienable right , and vehicle crime be often link to other type of crime . it be absolutely correct that a drive ban be one of the option available to judge to ensure a tough sentence for offender who receive a community sentence or be release on licence . at the heart of this Bill be the question of how we deliver justice for victim , tough punishment for perpetrator , and protection for the public . after year of failure by the Conservative party , I be proud that this Government will take the strong action need to fix our prison system and ensure criminal justice in Britain be work once more . I can not deny that clause 4 of the sentencing Bill be a step forward for victim , but I believe it can go far by specifically mention physical and psychological harm . clause 4 amend the statutory purpose of sentencing to specifically include the protection of victim of crime , a measure recommend by the independent sentencing review . by add an explicit reference to protect victim into the statutory purpose of sentencing , it make clear that justice be not just about deter future crime or punish offender , but about safeguard those who have already suffer . it be about recognise not only the harm that have be do , but the very real need to shield victim from ongoing and future harm . four month ago in my constituency of West Dorset , 14 - year - old Isabella be lure to a cemetery by another girl she know . as she arrive , somebody already have their phone out , record — they know what be about to happen . moment later , Isabella be savagely attack . she be stamp on and kick in the face repeatedly , and her head be smash on a concrete step . the physical attack be horrific , but so be what follow : the video of Isabella ' s attack be deliberately circulate almost immediately , share on social medium and in private WhatsApp group across school in Beaminster , Bridport and Lyme Regis . child who do not even know Isabella watch her brutal assault play out on their phone . what might have be one terrible moment have instead become a last trauma . this be exactly why strengthen clause 4 matter , because sentencing must reflect not only the physical harm cause to the victim , but the last psychological harm , the humiliation , the distress and the ongoing trauma that follow they for month and even year after the attack . the bruise may have fade , but Isabella ' s pain have not . I cite Isabella ' s case as an example of a wide problem . accord to the Youth Endowment Fund , 70 % of young people report have see real - world violence online in the past year . that mean that countless child across the country be be victimise twice : first in the violence itself and then in the endless replaying of that violence on phone and on social medium . clause 4 give we an opportunity to send a clear message that the law will stand with victim . however , we should go far and expressly include physical and psychological harm . that would mean that when judge and magistrate pass sentence , they treat case such as Isabella ' s not as a single moment of violence , but as an ongoing and deliberate act of cruelty that continue long after the assault end . I hope that the Government will use the opportunity as this legislation move forward to strengthen the provision . I be glad to support a Bill put forward by the only party serious about reform our criminal justice system . I say that as a barrister with 19 year ' experience , and I draw the House ' s attention to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . have be in full - time practice right up until last July ' s election , I see at first hand the chaos in our prison , the leaking and inadequate court building , and the overstretch probation officer , criminal barrister and other who be do more for less in increasingly challenging circumstance . this Bill be critical to deliver meaningful justice for victim , protect they more effectively , punish perpetrator and rehabilitate offender so that they become well citizen , not well criminal . we often talk about the Government ' s inheritance from the Conservatives , but I argue that the prison and probation system be the area of the public realm that be most affect by the Tories — where they do most damage . they have 14 year , and they create 500 prison place , as the Lord Chancellor say . the number of frontline prison officer fall by 31 % and the Conservatives decimate the Probation Service . their so - call transform rehabilitation reform , which privatise part of the Probation Service , result in taxpayer bail out fail private company with £ 467 million of public money . there be nothing more serious than ensure law and order , and the Conservatives become the party of lawlessness and disorder . it will take time to fix our prison and probation system , and this Bill begin that vital work . there be much I strongly support in this Bill . I particularly welcome the commitment to transition to an earn progression model for standard determinate sentence , inspire by reform in Texas . there , as we hear , crime be at record low , and it be important to stress that the behaviour of prisoner will impact their release . the principle on which this reform be base — that offender risk be relevant to how long they will stay in prison — be sound . if they reoffend and breach the term of release under this system , the system will come down on they like a ton of brick . the inescapable fact be that we send too many people to prison who then become well criminal . the point of prison be to face punishment as part of take personal responsibility for their action , but most people in prison can be rehabilitate . People must be accountable for their action without we become cynical about human nature . I also strongly support other measure in this Bill , such as the expansion of tag to monitor offender in the community , which , as the Lord Chancellor say , have be show to cut crime . I also strongly support the streamlining of deportation for foreign national offender , on which I have a recent constituency example . in June , three man from Folkestone and Dover be convict of rape a child and commit relate sexual offence . they be together sentence to around 54 year ' imprisonment . it be an utterly horrendous case . they be foreign national . under exist law , they can only be deport after serve the minimum term of their custodial sentence , which be often between a third and a half of it . why should the british taxpayer foot the bill for their incarceration here for the next seven , eight or nine year while our prison be at capacity ? clause 32 of the Bill answer that question by allow the Home Office to remove the offender from prison at any time and subject they to deportation action , irrespective of how long they have spend in prison here . I support that common - sense measure , which be yet another example of a measure that could have be enact by the Conservatives , yet be not . despite the party political edge to the hon . and learn Gentleman ' s remark , I want to ask he a serious question . presumably there need to be safeguard to ensure that when people be deport before they have serve their sentence , those sentence will be serve in the country to which they be deport . can the hon . Gentleman explain to the House what sort of guarantee there will be that these people will not get off scot - free after deportation ? I be sure that there must be some such safeguard . I do not think anyone be suggest that people be go to leave their sentence early from the UK and walk free in their country of origin . there be a range of exist rule relate to prisoner transfer agreement and so forth , which will apply in any event . this may be a matter that the right hon . Member will be able to raise in Committee , but I have no doubt whatsoever that this measure — which will still be subject to the safeguard that be already in existence , whether in the deportation process or the justice process — will ensure that justice be do , which be the whole point of the Bill . there be much in the Bill that I welcome , but let I ask the Minister a few question . how can we keep the strong possible safeguard in place for victim during the transition to more community sentence , how can we ensure that our Probation Service be well resource and able to support the expansion of such sentence , and what additional measure be minister consider to support more effective rehabilitation of prisoner who have addiction and mental health condition ? the Bill be a serious and radical response to our prison crisis and our reoffende crisis , which be cost our society more and more every day in every way , and I invite member to vote for it today . I be a magistrate for 20 year , so I hope that I speak with some authority and have something to contribute on Second Reading . this Bill be base on recommendation in the recent Gauke review , which fall woefully short of address the many concern that the british people have about the current judicial system . worse still , it do nothing to reverse the current trend for woke justice , and enable the further politicisation of our once great judicial system . the left will describe the Bill as progressive , but in fact it be unrealistic , require vast amount of investment and funding for the Probation Service , and will take year to implement , and in the meantime it put the public at risk . the Bill make whole life order mandatory for certain type of murder , but do not specify which type of murder . it allow for " special sentence for offender of particular concern " to be impose for rape and certain other serious sexual offence , without give any explanation of what that actually mean . the british people want to know that life mean life — that murderer , terrorist , rapist , hate preacher and paedophile will be send to prison and never allow out to threaten the safety of the british people again , that they will face harsh condition in prison , and that prison be punishment , not a soft option . the Bill do nothing to defend our democracy and end the era of two - tier justice in this country , where free speech be a crime punishable by a more severe sentence than sexual assault or paedophilia . it enable the continued facilitation of the special treatment of defendant accord to their racial , cultural or religious identity . rise — I will make some progress , please . it allow for the even early release of dangerous criminal into the community on licence , reduce the time serve from 50 % of a sentence to a mere third . the implication for public safety in general , and for the safety of woman from repeat offender domestic violence perpetrator in particular , be concern . prisoner recall to prison for break licence condition would receive a reduce sentence of , I believe , 56 day — it be 28 in the Gauke review — as oppose to serve the full term of their sentence . that would apply to criminal convict of serious offence , which be a betrayal of justice for victim and for brave woman who have go through the harrowing experience of a trial . what of the Bill ' s intention to eradicate custodial sentence of less than 12 month ? that in effect remove the ability of the magistrate court to give out a custodial sentence , leave only community order available as a means of rehabilitation and punishment . by the time a streetwise defendant have plead mental health problem and declare they be on universal credit , there be very few option available to the sentencing bench , and without custody there be even few . these element of the Bill be design to free up prison space as oppose to administer the justice that the british people want convict criminal to face in return for the crime commit . there be no concrete plan to increase prison capacity , and there be no policy on deportation . this Bill be all about leniency , not about the reality of the dangerous place that prison currently be . the hon . Member be speak with great authority from her experience as a magistrate , but she criticise the Bill for have no concrete plan to expand prison capacity . could she talk about her party ' s plan to increase prison capacity , how much they would cost and when that capacity would come on line ? I thank the hon . member — I be go to call he an hon . friend , but I be not sure that be appropriate — and , yes , I could do that , but I think all member know Reform ' s policy on building prison . [ hon . member : " no , we do not . " ] let I finish my speech . the Bill propose increase power for the Probation Service such that it could shorten the length of a community order . it be entirely inappropriate for the Probation Service to be able to alter the sentence give by a magistrate or a judge . all this be open to abuse , and it mean that the already stretch Probation Service can release convict criminal from its book to free up capacity , rather than because rehabilitation or punishment have be successfully complete . the Bill be purposely vague and open to interpretation . it be not tough enough , and it do not address the problem our judicial system be face . for that reason , I will not be support it . to respond to the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Sarah Pochin ) , in 1997 — I do not know if my right hon . friend the Secretary of State be with we then — we be concerned that the prison population be 40 , 000 ; it be now 80 , 000 and it be predict to go up to 112 , 000 if we continue on the current flightpath . I just say to the hon . Lady that we be all strain to do our good to make sure that all our constituent be safe and that there be a just and effective system in our society to deal with crime and injustice . however , base on what I hear of her understanding of the Bill , I suggest it would be worth she while to sit down with Justice Ministers so that they can take she through some of the detail of the Bill , because I genuinely think there be element of it that she have completely misconstrue . I say that not in any party knockabout way ; I just think that would be worth while , because we want , particularly with this Bill , to build as much consensus as possible to reassure people out there that this House care about their concern . I declare an interest in that I be an honorary life member of the Prison Officers Association . there be no financial relationship or nexus to that and , as I have say before , the POA have make it clear that there be no benefit to I whatsoever — I would not get a south - face cell , an extra pillow or anything like that ; it be a privilege . I want to make four or five point very briefly , because I know that other want to speak , and they will to a certain extent echo those of my hon . friend the Members for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) and for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) . on the sentence management process , all the advice we get from Napo , which represent probation officer , show that there be a shortfall of about 10 , 000 staff , exactly as my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick say . the morale in the service itself — remember that probation officer have go through privatisation , and then be bring back as a public service — be pretty low . they be very committed professional , but have wage stagnate for a long period have have its effect , and recruitment and retention be a real issue that we need to address . I would not underestimate the stress they be under at the moment . we welcome the additional resource , but realistically there be a demand for more that we need to take on board . one issue with resettlement that have be raise with we by probation officer and other be that because of the cutback in local government and other funding regime , a lot of the voluntary sector body that they rely on to refer their client to are no long operate or have be starve of resource for a long period . a lot of those voluntary sector body be specialist in their own way , in particular with regard to drug abuse . the second issue be about prison . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick that we need a lot more detail about earn progression , but prison officer tell we that the reality be that rehabilitation be almost impossible at the moment . prisoner can not access the course that be need . we do not even have the staff who will go to their cell to accompany they to rehabilitation and education course . again , the pressure staff be under be immense . one specific issue with the skilled worker visa system have be raise by the Prison Officers Association . it have have an impact on the number of staff work in our prison . I be not aware of this to be honest , but there be recruitment campaign in Africa and elsewhere . staff have be bring here and now we be at risk of lose they because they fall foul of the new visa regime . it do not just affect prison — it affect a whole range of service — but it need to be look at again . another issue that have be discuss be the supervision of unpaid work . I be really worried that there be discussion about privatise that again . in London , we have the experience of Serco a number of year ago when it be privatised . to be frank , it be an absolute disaster . I be worried that it could be interpret as simply exploit prisoner for private profit in some instance . there be not much reference in the Bill to child and I wonder whether we will come back to that , because unless we look at the regime for child as well , we could be in a situation where child will be serve long sentence than some adult . one other point in relation to child that have be raise by a number of organisation , such as the Howard League , be the publication of a prisoner ' s or convict person ' s photo . I can understand the motivation behind that , but I believe the family often serve the sentence just as much as the prisoner . as a result , stigma be attach to the whole family . what we have find from our experience be that child have suffer because of crime perpetrate by the parent . we need to be very careful about how we use the identification process . we need to do it wisely and look at the implication for the whole family . I will make two final point . on race , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have be goad by the Opposition , but the work he do on an exploration of the justice system highlight discrimination in the system — we have to admit that . it be not about two - tier justice ; it be about try to get fair justice for everybody . the reality be that all the statistic demonstrate that for the same crime , those who be black or asian will get a harsh sentence and will almost certainly have a harsh regime when in prison than other . we need to follow up the work do by my right hon . friend . we need to be open and transparent , and get all the information out there again and re - examine it on intersectionality and the implication for the justice system . finally , I share the view of my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick on IPP . we have be at this for a number of year and the Select Committee make its recommendation on re - sentencing . the Government reject it , because they be worried about be brand as release prisoner into the community and worry that there would be risk . the re - sentencing exercise be about how to manage and minimise those risk . every time we have this debate and we do not move forward , what happen ? we have have suicide of those IPP prisoner . I be worried that unless we speed up the resolution of this problem , we will have an injustice . Lord Blunkett , who introduce the system , have subsequently absolutely condemn it , say it be one of the bad mistake he ever make in politic . we will render those injustice continue one and do more harm to both the prisoner themselves and — as those who have have constituent who have endure this will know — their family . as I say , the family serve the sentence as much as the individual concern . although there have be progress on this , I do think we need to revisit it in some legislative form in the near future . as a former Crown prosecutor of 21 year , like my hon . friend the Member for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) and my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) , I have see close up the impact of our broken criminal justice system on victim , on community and on our country as a whole . because of that , I can say , hand on heart , that I be proud to be stand here today in support of this Bill and the transformative reform it propose — change that will target reoffende and address the root cause of crime in a meaningful , lasting way . I will use my time to talk specifically about probation resourcing . before I get into the specific , I ask Members to cast their mind back to just over a year ago . the Secretary of State have already set some of this out , but , have hear from Opposition Members , I think it be worth reiterate what last year look like and remember the crisis we inherit from the previous Government : prison near maximum capacity , the Probation Service understaffe and stretch to the brink of collapse , and a court backlog of more than 73 , 000 case . and to what effect ? Justice delay be justice deny . we have a revolving door of offender go through an underfunded , under - resource system that be near the point of be unable to effectively deter , punish or rehabilitate criminal . difficult decision be take to manage those issue , regain control of our prison and ensure that the most dangerous offender be keep off our street . I be pleased that the Government act quickly and decisively , but we must never find ourselves in that position again . that be why it be time to look forward and to consider how we can create a system that break down the cycle of reoffende , enable victim to secure swift , fair justice , and always have space to lock away society ' s most violent and pervert offender . those be precisely the provision that the Bill will drive through , with measure such as the move away from short custodial sentence , which be show to be ineffective in deter and rehabilitate offender , and towards a system that put those aim at its heart . current evidence show that nearly 60 % of people sentence to 12 month or less in prison reoffend within a year of release — a clear sign of a system not work as it should . it be not cheap , either : it be estimate to cost the taxpayer £ 47 , 000 per year per prisoner . those shocking statistic only confirm what I witness year in , year out when I work for the Crown Prosecution Service , where I repeatedly see the same people come through the system , often commit the very same offence . I be old enough , Madam Deputy Speaker , that throughout my year work for the CPS , I be sadden to see those regular later join by their child , with entire generation of family catch up in gruelle cycle of reoffende . the Bill introduce a presumption to suspend short custodial sentence of 12 month or less , subject to certain exception , and create the pathway to improve community sentence with more effective measure . I commend the hon . Lady for her wisdom . there be many measure in the Bill that the DUP support and see as commendable , but I would respectfully say that we have some concern about reduce the length of custody for offender , and our concern be sufficiently grave that we , as a party , will be support the reason amendment . I be sorry to say that , but I have to put it on record . there be many thing that be good , but that be not good . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I be sadden to hear that that be his position , but I be afraid it do not change my view of the Bill . strict and stringent measure will be in place to encourage rehabilitation . those will be accompany by a simplified probation requirement , which will empower the Probation Service to determine the term and volume of rehabilitation activity for each offender on a specific and individual level . every offence be different , and under this system tailor community order will reflect the nature of the offence and the offender . that mean put in place measure well suit to punish offender for their crime , encourage rehabilitation and deter they from future criminal activity . that be support by evidence . the rate of reoffende for those on community order be 36 % , and it be 24 % for suspend sentence order with requirement , so this approach work . let it be clear state that in this system offender be far from free to do whatever they like . they will be supervise intensively and place under a set of strict condition . that will lead to a shift away from the root cause of crime , such as addiction , and towards gradual reintegration into society . of course , these reform must be accompany by significant investment in our Probation Service , and I be pleased that the Government have already commit to an extra £ 700 million in funding and recruit 1 , 000 new probation officer , with 1 , 300 more to come . however , as I say in previous debate when the sentencing review ' s recommendation be first announce , the Government must be prepare to provide further resource to the Probation Service if that become necessary . I be honour to sit on the Justice Committee . our inquiry have involve speak to probation officer , and two thing have be make clear . first , officer be absolutely committed to rehabilitate offer . secondly , regardless of their goodwill and no matter how hard they work , probation officer can not do their job effectively without proper resource . it be clear that the Probation Service have be work for many year on extremely limited resource , and we can not let that continue under the measure in the Bill . as a young prosecutor in the mid - 2000 , under the previous Labour Government ' s respect agenda , I work as part of the community justice initiative in Nottingham . the initiative , which be base on the Red Hook community justice centre in Brooklyn — America ' s first multi - jurisdictional community court — adopt a holistic approach to tackle the root cause of a person ' s offend , with agent such as housing officer , drug treatment worker and employment adviser under one roof take part in the sentencing process together . the approach have be show to significantly reduce the number of people receive jail sentence while enhance public confidence in the Government . the award - win centre be still run today , but sadly the Nottingham community justice court be not . despite early and promising sign of success , it lack resource and sustain funding . we must learn from our previous mistake . many of the recommendation of the independent sentencing review be carry forward in the Bill . importantly , the review note specifically that probation officer " should be provide with the time , resource and autonomy necessary to build meaningful relationship with offender and discharge this new responsibility to determine the appropriate content of probation requirement . " justice , the cross - party law reform and human right charity , have also outline concern about shortfall of probation staff , include a deficit of around 10 , 000 Probation Service staff in August this year . the charity suggest that despite more Probation Service officer be appoint in the last year , the target staffing level of full - time equivalent probation officer have not yet be meet . as I say , I have see at first hand what happen to great project and well - evidence initiative if they be under - resource . the Bill ' s provision rightly place increase responsibility on the Probation Service to deliver proper justice and to rehabilitate offender , but it need to be support to do so . therefore , although I welcome the Bill and the Government ' s announcement of increase funding for the Probation Service and the aim to recruit more probation officer , I be compel to urge the Minister to ensure that adequate resource be in place so that the change in the Bill will ensure that our criminal justice system can once again keep our country safe , protect victim and reduce crime . I be pleased to speak in support of the Bill , which seek to make our society safe through more effective sentencing of offender , whether in custody or in the community . I declare an interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on penal affair and as a member of the Justice Committee . I also declare a prior professional interest as an historian of criminal justice . sentencing be one of the ultimate power of the state : the power to punish by deprive a citizen of their liberty . it also protect the liberty of other by prevent crime , whether through deterrence or rehabilitation . the history of our prison system tell we that when prison neither deter nor rehabilitate , prison fail and the public be let down . the Bill draw on the independent sentencing review conduct by the former Secretary of State for Justice , David Gauke . the review be drive , as we have hear , by a crisis we inherit from the previous Government , with a massive rise in the number of inmate and an utter failure to plan and prepare for they . we have far too many people in prison . the number have double over the past 30 year , from 43 , 000 in 1993 to over 87 , 000 last year . that rise in inmate number have be cause not by an increase in report crime , but largely by an increase in the use of short custodial sentence and an increase in recall to prison of those who have breach their licence condition . when our prison be pack to the gunwale , they can not do their vital job of turn offender away from crime and they can not offer value for the billion of pound of public money put into they . the Gauke review find that , in the year to September 2024 , nearly 45 , 000 people — 58 % of all custodial sentence — be give a custodial sentence of less than 12 month . it also find that the recall population have more than double over the past seven year , rise from around 6 , 000 to well over 13 , 000 . in recent month the Justice Committee — I be surround by several member of the Committee — have hear shocking evidence about the everyday impact on a prison system that be run red hot . we have hear about education session that can not be deliver due to lack of space , about substance - free wing be use to house inmate who may not need those service but simply need a cell , and about repair to crumble prison building that can not be complete because no decant space be available . the Bill seek to tackle that by review short sentence and reset sentencing culture . it will do that by : as set out in clause 1 , a presumption to suspend short custodial sentence of 12 month or less unless exceptional circumstance apply ; and , in clause 2 , extend the availability of suspend sentence . as we have hear , the Bill will do much more than that . notably , it will strengthen community justice and refresh the power of our Probation Service , although I note the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) about the resource need to sustain that . it also seek to make it easy for domestic abuser to be flag across the justice system . that be all to be welcome . that say , some proposal in the Bill will require close attention in Committee . for I those include : the procedural mechanism for flag domestic abuser , which must be robust ; the propose use of photograph of offender undertake pay work , which will need careful consideration ; definition of excess wealth when apply income reduction order ; and the procurement arrangement for enhanced electronic tagging . I hope that Ministers will be willing to engage on those question as a means of strengthen this much - need Bill , as this be a much - need reset of our sentencing process . I want to speak today about how the Sentencing Bill will bring some common sense to sentencing and bring in an evidence - base approach to stop reoffende and protect victim of crime . that be the primary duty of government : to protect citizen from harm . I will particularly highlight change that mean that victim and survivor will be at the heart of sentencing and that punishment will fit the crime , protect survivor and focus on true rehabilitation , not just warehouse . one example be the move from the exist system of exclusion zone , which prevent domestic abuse or sexual assault offender from enter specific area where the victim might be , to restriction zone that will limit the offender ' s movement to an agree - upon area . for too long , the burden have be on the victim , with survivor move house , switch job and change bus route to avoid the person who hurt they . restriction zone mean it be the offender whose life be reshape , not the victim ' s . technology will track compliance , breach will mean prison and survivor will help design the zone alongside probation officer , so that their freedom , not the attacker ' s , be the priority . for year , magistrate and judge have be call for more constructive and flexible sentencing option — more than fine that can be dodged or custody that do not fix the underlying criminal behaviour . the Bill introduce that , whether through drive ban , travel restriction , football ban order or sexual harm prevention order . it move past a one - size - fit - all approach and allow judge to deliver personalised punishment , hit criminal where it hurt . short prison sentence do not cut crime and they do not stop reoffende . hon . member need not just take my word for it , or decade of evidence ; maybe the Conservatives will accept the word of a former screw . my constituent James , who work in the Prison Service for decade , say to I : " short sentence do nothing . " he welcome many of the measure in the Bill : " in short , the Bill be the law we ' ve all be advocate for , for a long time . " all the money that we currently spend on short prison sentence be not spend on Best Start centre , hospital , school , healthcare and drug treatment , where the root cause of crime can actually be address . I be try to go along with the thrust of the hon . Lady ' s argument , but I just wonder whether it be as absolute as she suggest . admittedly , people who undergo short sentence may be repeat offender , and that be particularly true of shoplifter , for example , as we have hear . however , if a store be a victim of the same shoplifter over and over again , to be relieve of that shoplifter raid the premise even for a period of eight or 10 month must be some sort of salvation , must it not ? I agree that retail premise need relief from that shoplifting , but I would like that relief to be permanent . I would like to see the cause of shoplifting stop , and quite often that be drug use and organise criminal behaviour . I do not want just to chuck people in prison for a bit and then let they out to reoffend again . we need sentence that give offender proper access to drug and alcohol rehab and mental health care — the kind of support that tackle the root cause of crime . we need sentence that ensure the offender pay back their debt to society . public safety be the bottom line here . judge will have discretion to hand out prison sentence of less than 12 month , say , for domestic abuser or violent offender . they will be able to make sure that survivor have the confidence to rebuild their life know that the perpetrator be behind bar . rapist and criminal who commit other serious sexual offence will spend their custodial term in prison . rapist and sexual offender will spend less time in prison as a result of this Bill . do she know that ? I do not think the hon . Gentleman ' s analysis of the Bill be correct . I understand that perhaps he have some personal experience here and I appreciate that he have very strong feeling on the matter . perhaps he will listen again to my former prison officer , who welcome the change . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not give way — [ interruption . ] I think the hon . Gentleman be perhaps not show the House the respect it deserve — [ interruption . ] I would appreciate it if he would allow I to continue without this continuous chuntering . at their core , these reform do two thing at once . they keep the most dangerous offender where they belong , in prison , protect the public , and they end the waste of lock up low - risk offender . the evidence be really clear . I know that the Conservatives really struggle when the evidence contradict their instinct and their prejudice , but it be simply true . the hon . Gentleman disagree do not make it any less true . the victim of crime in my constituency deserve well than this current crumble justice system . they deserve well than our overstuffed prison that just churn out more and more criminal . they deserve this Sentencing Bill . I want to speak today about justice ; not just about punishment but about rehabilitation , dignity and the transformative power of second chance . for too long , our criminal justice system have be shape by short - term thinking and political posturing — we have see a fair amount of that in this debate — but we be change that . this Government be commit to a smart , fair approach to sentencing that protect the public , support victim and give offender a real chance to rebuild their life . that be why this Bill matter . it enact key recommendation from the independent sentencing review and mark a turning point in how to deliver justice . this landmark legislation will ensure that our prison system never again reach the brink of collapse . it introduce a presumption against short custodial sentence under 12 month , except in case of serious risk or a breach of court order . instead , we be expand the use of robust community sentence and give judge great flexibility to tailor punishment to the individual . also , as have be mention , we be invest in technology to monitor offender outside prison . this have very much be show to reduce reoffende . overall reoffende rate in 2023 be 26 . 3 % . this be far too high , and short custodial sentence be a significant problem . over 56 % of offender serve less than 12 month go on to reoffend . young people be especially vulnerable . those aged 18 to 20 have the high reoffending rate at 36 . 2 % , follow closely by 15 to 17 - year - old at 32 . 6 % . theft offence top the list with 48 . 4 % of individual reoffende . that highlight the deep link between socioeconomic hardship and repeat crime . these figure underscore the urgent need for targeted rehabilitation , education and employment support to break the cycle , and one of the most pressing challenge be literacy . over half of the UK ' s prison population struggle with basic reading . accord to the Ministry of Justice , 57 % of adult prisoner read below the level of an average 11 - year - old . that be incredible . in 2022 - 23 , 65 % of those assess be at entry level 1 to 3 in English , which be below the low gcse level . poor literacy be closely link to high reoffende rate and diminish chance of rehabilitation . however , we can look to other country for inspiration in this area . in Brazil , the Remission for read programme offer a powerful example of how education can transform life . introduce in 2012 , it allow prisoner to reduce their sentence by read book and write review . each approved review earn four day of sentence remission , up to 48 day per year . this be not just about read ; it be about rehabilitation . as one teacher involve in the programme say , " this be about acquire knowledge and culture and be able to join another universe . " the programme foster literacy , empathy and self - reflection . it give prisoner a new perspective and a pathway to reintegration . the Philippines have also follow suit , with the " read your way out " initiative launch in 2023 . this time , prisoner can reduce their sentence by 15 day for every 60 hour of reading , study , teaching or mentor . thirteen new prison library have be create to support the scheme . the programme show what be possible when we treat prisoner not just as offender , but as people capable of change and growth . I ask the Minister if the Government would adopt a similar scheme to the " Remission for read " programme in Brazil across our entire prison estate . the initiative would make our justice system smart , safe and more humane . it would provide an opportunity for change while still be tough on the cause of crime . of course , this approach align with the principle set out in the independent sentencing review , chair by former Lord Chancellor David Gauke . let I be clear : dangerous criminal will continue to be lock up for a very long time . for those who can be rehabilitate , we must offer hope . help they improve their literacy be one way to do that . the Conservatives leave we with a broken system . we be build a well one that be smart , safe and more humane . I declare the interest that , as a former prison officer , I be still a member of the Prison Officers ' Association . have serve as a Justice Parliamentary private Secretary until only last week , this be the first time I have be able to speak on these departmental matter in the Chamber since I be elect . I want to use this opportunity to pay tribute to my friend and former colleague at his Majesty ' s Prison and Young Offender Institution Moorland who I serve with prior to the general election . they be some of the brave and most dedicated people I have ever know and , as only the second prison officer ever elect to this place , I want to use my time on these bench to ensure that their voice be hear . I want to acknowledge the work do by the former Lord Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) , and the former Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) , as well as the Minister for Prisons , Probation and Reducing reoffende in the other place , for all they have do to get we to today . I wish the very good of luck to the new Minister and the new Lord Chancellor in their role . I be proud that this Government have have the backbone to take the bold but necessary step to reform our sentencing and justice system in this country . context in this debate be incredibly important , because over the last year I have hear the shadow Front Benchers criticise this Government month after month , and it have be , frankly , gall — the sheer audacity of they sit there with their faux outrage , know what they have do . the conservative nearly bring our prison system to the point of collapse ; it be frankly beyond comprehension . under they , we see huge rise in violence , self - harm , drug abuse , overcrowding and an abject failure to build the space we need . rather than deal with that crisis , rather than face up to the challenge , they call a general election . this dereliction of duty be not something we can shrug off or pass over because they be not in power any more . catastrophic handling on that scale mean that they should be hold accountable . their decision making , or lack of it , have put the safety of our prison estate in huge jeopardy and have have real - life and horrific consequence for staff and prisoner . I for one will not forget their legacy , and I will not allow anyone else to forget it either . I want to shine a light on the additional measure in the Bill that be focus on victim , who must always be at the centre of our thinking when discuss the justice system : create new restriction zone , limit the movement of offender , well identify perpetrator of domestic abuse and create a define category that can be use to well manage domestic abuse perpetrator , both in custody and on release . I hope that that package of strengthen right for victim will , along with all the other measure , be an important step forward in the journey towards ensure that their right be respect and their voice hear . I be also pleased that the legislation recognise that prisoner behaviour should dictate whether they be release as part of the earn progression model . although it be important that we be able to manage population number , it should not come at the detriment of support for good behaviour and punishment for bad . the additional power to extend the number of day add at adjudication level be important . I be keen to explore in more detail with the Minister how we can use and improve the adjudication system to enforce that . I be sure he will be pleased to hear that , as a train adjudication liaison officer myself , I have many view on how to strengthen the system so that prisoner who be violent — they be , frankly , the chief trouble - causer — face maximum penalty , and we capture those who should not benefit from the earn progression model . I ask Ministers to consult operationally experienced voice at every level of implementation to ensure maximum impact in that area . I be aware that there be limited time and many colleague wish to speak , so I will not go into further detail on the Bill . these reform be not just about cut prisoner number — we will have more prisoner at the end of this Parliament than we have in the previous one — but about make our prison system safe and more manageable , and , in do so , give prison space to focus once again on rehabilitation , reduce reoffende and drive down the number of victim . I hope that the success of the Bill will mean that , in time , we be able to place extra focus on support group of people who be often over - represent in the prison system — not least care leaver . it be estimate that 52 % of young offender and 29 % of the overall prison population be care - experienced . that be not something that we as a society can accept ; change must come . I hope that reform in the legislation will allow the space for that to happen over time . we must ensure that our prison be safe for prison staff , we must drive down reoffende rate to protect victim , and we must recognise that the previous Government ' s approach do not work . these reform be bold , yes , but they be long , long overdue . I congratulate the Government on take the first step towards get a grip of our prison and wide criminal justice system so that we never again find the system on the point of collapse . like my colleague , I very much welcome the move to favour community sentence over short custodial sentence , as the Sentencing Bill provide . as we know , short - term sentence often lead to reoffende , which place a much - need emphasis on rehabilitation . rehabilitation play a vital role in address the root cause of offending . there be a wealth of research on the risk factor associate with offend and reoffende , with drug and alcohol dependency among the most prominent factor . although there be slightly less research on this matter , I be increasingly concerned about the link between problem gambling and crime . gambling disorder can and do lead to criminal offending , which be often commit out of desperation . the Commission on Crime and Gambling relate Harms have highlight clear connection between gambling and various type of crime , include acquisitive crime , street robbery , domestic abuse , criminal damage and drug offence . although gambling can be a fun activity for some , a gambling disorder can very easily take over an individual ' s life : rate of suicide be significant , disorder gambling can ruin family , and gambling disorder push people into debt and subsequently into crime . I be concern about the fact that gambling disorder be not give parity of esteem with substance addiction by the criminal justice system . there be a range of rehabilitation requirement to support prisoner sentence with severe drug and alcohol dependency , but there be no such statutory support for gambling - relate offence . that be a potential gap in the Bill that could be address in Committee . gambling disorder share similar cognitive and mental health characteristic to substance addiction . problem gambling be officially recognise as a mental health disorder in both the World Health Organisation ' s international classification of disease , and the " diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders " , sit alongside traditional substance addiction . address problem gambling in the criminal justice system must therefore be treat as a public health and rehabilitative issue , in much the same way that we address drug and alcohol addiction . the gambling levy , introduce in April , will fund treatment , research , education and prevention in relation to gambling harm . I credit the Government and the NHS for work exceptionally hard to support those suffering from this cruel addiction . however , I be concerned that departmental silos may hinder the effective delivery of support in the criminal justice system . the Sentencing Act 2020 mandate drug rehabilitation for offender convict of drug and alcohol - relate crime . part 10 ( 19 ) ( 1 ) ( a ) of schedule 9 to the Act state that the offender " must submit to drug rehabilitation treatment , which may be resident treatment or non - resident treatment " . the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 15 ) , that , at this day ' s sit , second reading of the Sentencing Bill may be proceed with , though oppose , until 9 . 00 pm . — ( Nesil Caliskan . ) question agree to . Debate resume . question again propose , that the Bill be now read a second time . unfortunately , the legislation do not mandate that individual sentence for gambling - relate offence must seek rehabilitative treatment for their gambling disorder . again , I suggest that the Bill could correct that as it progress through the House . in a survey conduct by the University of Staffordshire , 99 . 6 % of stakeholder support sentencing option that mirror those use for drug and alcohol addiction , include the option to contribute to rehabilitation activity requirement day . currently , community sentence treatment requirement propose drug and alcohol rehabilitation requirement for individual sentence to a community order , where the offender have consent to receive treatment for substance misuse . again , that be not offer to those with gambling disorder . there be a clear need for great intervention . in a report commission by the Centre for Crime , Justice and Security at the University of Staffordshire , between 2022 and 2024 , 41 % of people under probation supervision report regular gambling . I echo the heartfelt support that Government Members have express for all the probation officer and prison officer work extremely hard and their need for resource to support offender in rehabilitate . in 2023 , the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities estimate that the imprisonment cost associate with problem gambling be equivalent to £ 167 . 3 million per year . I thank the Minister for our conversation regard this issue . I ask he to consider the merit of mandate rehabilitative treatment for individual sentence for gambling - relate offence because of a gambling disorder and whether a proportion of the gambling levy fund could be ringfence to fund this treatment . Madam Deputy Speaker , put yourself in the place of a victim of crime . you want to go out for a walk with your family , out to the park or to the other side of town , but you be worried that the perpetrator might see you there . you want to go for a night out or to support your football team , but you be worried about what they might do or how you might react if they be there too , so you do not . they be the one who be convict , but you still feel like the prisoner . they receive the sentence , but you be be punish . it happen too often , and I have come across case like these not just as an MP but in my time as a barrister . this be a Bill whose time have come , because it turn that injustice on its head . currently , some offender can be exclude from certain limited area , but under this Bill , they can be restrict from all area apart from a limited one . whether it be the pub , the match or drive around , expand community punishment and licensing condition will ensure that it be the offender who face restriction on what they can do and enjoy , not the victim . I do not need to tell my constituent in Derby North about the situation inherit from the Conservatives — a broken justice system , prison full and in crisis , severe criminal court backlog and decay infrastructure — because too many of they live the reality of have to deal with the thousand of antisocial behaviour incident that we see in our city every year . there be a need to tackle prolific and persistent offender with strict monitoring and co - ordinate support . the expansion of intensive supervision court be design to do just that , and it be hugely welcome by those I have speak to who work in our criminal court . they have say to I , " roll this out as fast as possible . " the additional £ 700 million that this Government be invest in our Probation Service — with the recruitment of 1 , 000 trainee probation officer already and 1 , 300 more to be recruit in the next six month — be rebuild that service . we be rebuild after the Conservative Government ' s vandalism , their fail experiment in privatise probation , which push it to crisis , and their have to bring it back into public hand . probation officer work incredibly hard to keep our community safe , and I be grateful that this Government be invest in their essential work . may I also take this opportunity to thank those who work in our prison ? the number of prisoner will , of course , still go up . the Government be build more prison place — something that the previous Government all but fail to do — and more offender will be behind bar than ever before under this Government . we therefore need to turn prison from create well criminal to create well citizen . the earn progression model reward good behaviour and punish bad behaviour in our prison . it be an important tool to break the cycle of offend that we have see for far too long , and when offender stop offend , our community be safe . the Minister of State for Prisons , Probation and Reducing Reoffending — a businessman who throughout his career enable offender to turn their life around and to break those cycle — know well than anyone how to make this work . I recently visit HMP Ranby to see how it be increase the type of work that the prisoner there undertake , from create furniture and do laundry for prison and other public service , save taxpayer ' money , to work on reading and writing , or undertake work for the private sector , give offender the skill to secure work on release . utilise and increase the opportunity for offender to work in prison can build on the important measure in the Bill , reduce reoffende by give they purpose and skill , while instill a work routine . I will make that case in an Adjournment debate on 15 October . I be grateful for the opportunity to highlight these three aspect of the approach : the intensive supervision to tackle antisocial behaviour and prolific offending ; measure to help end the revolving door of offend ; and new restriction zone and community punishment to give freedom back to victim . the Bill be bear of necessity , because of the mess in which the Conservatives leave our prison and criminal court . while bear of necessity , though , I be excited about the transformative difference that the Bill will make , so that few offender reoffend , victim be where they must be — the focus of our criminal justice system — and our community be safe as a result . I be grateful to have the opportunity to speak in favour of the Bill , because in so many way it epitomise what the Government have have to do over the last 14 month . we inherit a prison system in crisis , have be fit to burst for year — something that evidently do not catch the attention of the then Ministers , give that in their 14 year they add only 500 place , one 40th of what they promise the people of this country they would deliver . despite rapidly ramp up prison building as a national infrastructure priority to address the fail legacy of the Conservatives — whose reputation as the suppose party of law and order be , frankly , in tatter — this Government be be honest with the public that we will still face a shortfall in prison place of some 9 , 500 by 2028 . that be why generational reform of sentencing be need to ensure that our legal system be fit for the future . that be the responsible thing to do , which be why it be so unedifying to see the party of Peel , Disraeli and David Gauke disgrace itself with the scaremongering and party political point scoring we have hear from the Conservatives , over a Bill that will clean up the mess that they create . let I turn to the specific of the Bill . the change to early release will ensure that that release be genuinely earn . it be indisputable that over many year we have see an erosion of discipline and order in many of our prison , as evidence by the amount of contraband that make it into secure facility and the number of assault on prison officer . the change in the Bill will ensure that possession of a mobile phone , for example , or violent behaviour can add month to a sentence , and that there will be no limit to that , as additional time can be add consecutively . far from be soft on criminal , the clear message be that if people cause disorder and intimidation in our prison , they will spend long behind bar . on rehabilitation , we have to be pragmatic and do what work . in my view , the primary purpose of our sentencing system be to punish offender and make they repay society for their crime , but I be also a pragmatist . if , as the Justice Secretary clearly outline , the reoffende rate and the likelihood of offender go on to commit more serious crime be sky high , particularly for those serve short custodial sentence , then we have a duty to look at this again . it be right that the consequence that be prove to be more effective , such as community order , be use , but with vital carve - out for dangerous and prolific offender , so that judge can ensure that victim , like those of vile domestic and sexual violence , be protect . on that point , this Government ' s effort to fix the mess that the last Government make of tagging will help we to protect victim through pragmatic change , include a pilot of tagging before prisoner reach the gate for release . that will be couple with the measure in the Bill of which I be proud : restriction zone , which will be important for victim , often woman , who have so much to fear from offender — often ex - partner or family member . in one of the first surgery that I hold as an MP last July , I speak to a constituent who live in constant fear of her manipulative , violent and abusive ex - partner , who she feel would kill she . she have a restraining order in place but she feel that it be no protection at all , because her ex - partner would repeatedly find out where she live and know exactly how to get around the order . I know that many hon . member have hear such story , where the victim feel that they be now the one be restrict to a geographical area . under this Bill , it will be the offender who feel that sense of geographical restriction . it should always have be that way around . on make offender feel restriction on their life and liberty , I also welcome the propose reform to community sentence , so that rather than a one - size - fit - all approach that will not affect every offender , there will instead be a broad range of punishment that can be tailor to the nature of the offending and to what would act as a deterrent to each offender . finally , I welcome the Bill ' s introduction of a requirement that the Lord Chancellor be consult on new sentencing guideline . that be a firm commitment make by the previous Justice Secretary , when new guideline — state that judge should take fact include the defendant ' s ethnicity into account — be put before we without her oversight . she state that this Government would take urgent legislative action to address that , and that commitment be be put into effect in this Bill . in conclusion , the measure in the Bill be necessary after the last government ' s abject record of failure on criminal justice and prison . they will ensure that all our constituent can have the assurance that the criminal justice system be once again effective , fit for purpose and on a solid footing for the future . it be a privilege to speak on Second Reading . this be an historic debate , as I believe it be the first piece of legislation to be introduce by a Deputy Prime Minister who be a graduate of the King ' s school in Peterborough . I welcome the Justice Secretary to his place , as well as the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) . as an MP who represent a prison and a crown court , I be very much alive to the issue that the Bill cover , include the failure not only of full prison , but of a criminal justice system on the point of collapse , with backlog in the court , crime unpunished and , for too many people , often justice deny . have listen to many of the important contribution from member on the Government Benches , I wish that more member from the conservative Benches could have be here to bear witness to the legacy that they have leave this country , which this Government be begin to unpick . in my advice surgery and in my postbag , I regularly hear the issue : of family worry that justice will not be serve , but also of a broken system , where the idea that people can offend but go on to have a good life have be lose . I warmly welcome the speed with which the Justice Secretary be grasp the prison crisis with two hand , because that crisis be also a crisis of trust in our public service . it be crucial that we have a just system that punish offender and support victim . to make well use of time , I will not repeat many point , but I will focus on one particular aspect of the legislation and talk in favour of rebuild our broken probation system . one of the big challenge face society be that our prison still turn out too many repeat offender , particularly among young people . recent datum show that if someone leave prison be employ within six week of release , their likelihood of reoffending be cut by half . that be a powerful testament to the impact and meaningful nature of work . it also speak to a truth : too many young offender have be fail by school or lack the skill and opportunity to get on in life . they should be hold accountable for the crime they have commit , but we need a pathway back , with community order in the Bill to give people a chance to contribute to society as well as serve their time and do their punishment . this issue interest I greatly through both my faith and my value , and it matter greatly in Peterborough . I be lucky enough to know Gez and Rosy Chetal , who set up Prismstart to work with employer , prison and offender to create work experience opportunity . through their huge effort , they have secure meaningful employment for more than 60 % of the individual who have come through their scheme and have produce work experience and opportunity for other . I also draw the House ' s attention to the work I have be do as a Co - op MP with the Co - operative movement . in July this year , the Co - operative Group launch a new partnership with City & Guilds for a new apprenticeship scheme for serve prisoner at HMP Highpoint in Suffolk . the scheme offer level 2 rail engineering operative apprenticeship , with guarantee employment in the rail sector on release . this initiative aim to address the rail skill shortage that this country desperately need to fill and to reduce reoffende by provide prisoner with qualification and work experience before they leave prison . the scheme speak to something that I hope this House hold dear . by provide clear employment pathway , we can break the cycle of reoffende , fix our prison and rebuild our country . every single one of we be here because we want to deliver justice for every one of our constituent . as a former police officer , it have be really welcome to hear of the live experience of barrister , criminal prosecutor and people who have work in our Prison Service , because it be their expertise that make this place deliver for people . as a former police officer , I know that this Government have inherit a criminal justice system on the brink of collapse after 14 year of conservative neglect . I can see that the early release scheme have be in action tonight , with Conservative Members be absent . Probation be hollow out and police number see - sawed ; they be cut in the early part of the Conservatives ' tenure , only to grow later after crime rise . the stark truth be that the Conservatives leave prison full at the end of their term ; they know that , and they have never apologise for that derogation of responsibility . the conservative party be the party of law and disorder , and this be its failure . no matter the gimmick of the shadow Justice Ministers — whether it be chase people in tube station or climb lamp post — that record will have be on their watch . that be why this Bill be so urgent . we know that the number of prison place be grow , with 14 , 000 more before the end of the decade . we have a Government who be finally step up and listen to the public when it come to put people in prison , but we know that that can not be the only solution and that we need to adopt other approach . that be why the Sentencing Bill be so necessary ; it recognise that capacity must be build , but also that sentence must be reform so that the right people be behind bar for the right length of time and the public can have confidence in justice . our prison should not be a revolving door for ever more prison experience and criminal rotate through the system , and we need to change that . this Bill take a clear - eyed approach . let we be clear about this : dangerous offender and those pose the high risk will continue to serve long sentence — no ifs , no but . for most offender , though , we will move towards an earn progression model . behaviour in custody will determine how much of a sentence be serve . as we have learn from the States , that be a model that work , and I look forward to see it develop in action , oversee by Ministers who will consult with the professional body and prison staff . I welcome the reform to the way in which we approach sentencing , listen to professional such as the Times ' Crime and Justice Commission and David Gauke so that we can have a system that deliver the outcome we want . this shift be not about be soft ; it be about be smart and ensure that punishment be effective . I be conscious of time , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Bill be not perfect , and I look forward to improve it in Committee , work with all member . it learn from the failure of the past , of which there be many ; it build on the finding of an independent review ; and it balance punishment , deterrence and rehabilitation . I hope Members will support it today . that be the end of the Back - Bench contribution . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to colleague on all side of the House for their contribution to the debate , and I welcome the Minister to his post — I think today be his first time at the Dispatch Box . as I have say before , want to see more consistent delivery of justice for victim of serious crime be one of the primary reason I seek election to this place , and I do not think that any Government in my lifetime have universally deliver that . for decade , across party , our justice system have fall short far too often . I be sure that many member from all party can relate to the experience of hear about some of the most horrific crime that take place and be appal by the sentence give . that be not new , but the question we have to ask ourselves today be whether the Bill we be consider will make the situation bad or well . will more victim get what we would consider justice as a result of this Bill , or few ? since this Labour Government come to power , we have quite rightly be hold they for account for the measure they have already take to let people out of prison early . member on both side of the House will be familiar with the consistent debate we have have about pressure on prison place , where responsibility for that lie , and what can be do about it . Labour Members point to our prison - building record , while I point out to they that the pressure on the prison system leave by the last Labour Government be bad , and that there be other option for foreign national and the remand population . a lot of heat be generate , but there be not much more to it . Labour Members point out that they have have to take emergency step , and it be true that the measure they have take have not be permanent change to our sentencing framework . however , I say to they that the Bill we be consider today do something very different . as the hon . member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) and other have demonstrate , I be not sure that Labour member fully recognise what the Government be ask they to support today . there be measure to be welcome in this Bill — the new restriction zone and the measure to well track domestic abuse case , which the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , also support — but there be a number of reason why I do not support the Bill . we have hear member include the shadow Justice Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , raise criticism relate to short sentence , community sentence , Parole Board reform , probation and the Sentencing Council , but I be not surprised that Labour member do not agree with those criticism . however , I do not believe Labour Members can sincerely think what I be about to talk about be something they would knowingly want to support . I be go to read out a list of offence : rape ; assault by penetration ; rape of a child under 13 ; assault of a child under 13 by penetration ; incite a child under 13 to engage in sexual activity ; pay for the sexual service of a child age under 13 ; kidnap or false imprisonment with the intention of commit a sexual offence ; and create or possess indecent photograph of child . I hope Labour Members feel as uncomfortable be force to consider those offence and what they entail as I do while read they out . I be go to read they again : rape ; assault by penetration ; rape of a child under 13 ; assault of a child under 13 by penetration ; incite a child under 13 to engage in sexual activity ; pay for the sexual service of a child age under 13 ; kidnap or false imprisonment with the intention of commit a sexual offence ; and create or possess indecent photograph of child . in fact , there be even more of those sort of offence that we need to have in mind this evening . why do we need to consider these offence ? because despite what some Labour member have say to the contrary — without ill will , I accept — and for all the thing it do that member might support , the Bill we be consider this evening will mean one thing for the vile criminal who commit those sort of offence . it will mean that they be let out of prison early , not as a temporary measure in response to the kind of short - term prison crowding challenge that we have debate and recognise , but as a permanent and profound change to our sentencing law . member who support this Bill will be put their name to legislation that will forever change our sentencing law to let rapist and paedophile out of prison early . the hon . member for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) talk about legacy . I can not honestly believe that Government member want to support a Bill that will allow rapist and paedophile to get out of prison early . that be not political posturing or hyperbole or scaremongere , as the hon . member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) describe it . it be not an unfair interpretation or misrepresentation of the Bill before the House today . rapist and paedophile — those be the people that member will be vote to let out of prison early if they support this Bill this evening . be that really what they come to this place to do ? the shadow Minister be read out a series of crime that be reprehensible , and no one in this House would want to see the individual who commit such crime have anything but the book throw at they . in the spirit and tone in which he have read that list out , his Government oversee a 2 . 6 % charge rate for people who be arrest for rape . do he want to say anything to the House about that particular damning figure ? there be people today who have not be let out of prison early , because they never even get there in the first place . what do he say to that ? the hon . Member will have note that at the outset of my remark I say that I have never be entirely in support of all the policy of a Government of either party on these issue . he have every right to make those criticism , but they do not change the vote he be be ask to make tonight . they do not change the policy he will be put his name to and support . there be no excuse for the thing he will be change on a permanent — not temporary — basis to deal with a short - term prison crisis . I do not think that that be what any Government Member ' s constituent want . these profound and permanent change to our sentencing law be the exact opposite of what the vast majority of victim , their family and the public want . they will sit on the record of those member and this government until the next election . they will need to justify themselves to their voter . I do not believe that the majority of Labour Members , deep down , want to support such change tonight . it will be a great compliment to party manager if , after this reality have be spell out to Labour Members , they decide to support this Bill anyway . if they speak to their constituent like I speak to mine , and ask they about child abuser and rapist , their constituent will tell they that they be already concern by the limited time they spend in prison , which undermine justice . we have hear so many time from member in this House about the horror of rape and other sexual offence , about the victim of groom gang and about the horror of all kind of sexual abuse . not once do I recall a campaign or a concern raise by member that the answer be to make such offender spend less time in prison . I accept that there be a different debate to be have about different cohort of offender and different offence . there be always a tension between prison time as a punishment and help to rehabilitate offender . as other have say , and I agree , I do not think the Bill strike the right balance in that area , but I respect those Government Members and member of the public who would draw the line in a different place from I for certain type of offence and offender . however , we be not talk about drug addict steal to fund their habit , or the young man from a broken home who spend their childhood in care and vandalise the local playground . the hon . member for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) , for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) and the hon . member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , and other coherently and sensibly raise the debate we might have about how long those individual spend in prison and how we rehabilitate they . however , here we be talk about rapist and paedophile — criminal who sexually assault child , criminal who create sexual image of child and circulate they around the world and criminal who snatch unsuspecting woman walk home through a park , drag they into the bush and rape they . those be the sort of criminal that Labour Members will agree should be let out of prison early if they support this Bill . we should be clear that not a single voice among victim ' representative support this element of the Bill — not a single one . the Victims ' Commissioner do not support it . the Domestic Abuse Commissioner do not support it . justice for Victims do not support it . Victim Support do not support it . the Victims ' Commissioner for London do not support it . apparently , however , we will see this evening that Labour mp do . let I also clear up any confusion about the circumstance under which these violent and sexual offender will be release early . member , innocently , may have be lead to believe that prisoner will have to jump over considerable hurdle to secure early release . in fact , the former Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Birmingham Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) tell we they would need to " earn " their release . the reality of the proposal in the Bill make clear what a complete sham that suggestion be . actually , prisoner will actively need to break prison rule to run the risk of lose early release . that be not earn anything . that be do what the majority of the public do day in , day out , without any reward — just behave themselves and not break the rule . apparently , however , if a rapist or a child abuser do it , Labour Members think that should entitle they to walk away from the proper punishment that they have be give for their crime . in fact , what Labour say to the press in an attempt to manage the news of this terrible set of policy give the impression that the large discount amount to , in some case , many year off prison time could be quickly reverse for bad behaviour , and that this be a radical departure . while the amount of time after which the Government be choose to let people out be certainly radical , the mechanism to keep people in be nothing of the sort . as we see in the detail of the Bill , they will simply make use of the exist prison punishment legislation . I wonder whether Labour member be aware of the average number of day in prison that be add by the prison punishment regime . accord to the late datum I could find , the average number of additional day give to a prisoner who break the rule be 16 . when sentence for rapist and child abuser will be discount by many month and year , they run the risk of have a handful of day add back on for break prison rule . that be shameful , and it do not apply only to the offence that I have mention . the hon . member for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) speak about a 15 year sentence , and about how the victim of the person concern would feel about their not be give a lifelong driving ban . how will they feel when they be tell that instead of serve 15 year in prison , that person will spend five year there ? the parlous state of this Government be a blessing for Labour Members tonight . there be many other issue receive medium coverage at present — the political survival of the Prime Minister himself be in question — so they may get away with vote this Bill through unnoticed . however , this be just the first stage . I know that the timetable for the Bill be as short as the Government could make it — just a day of Committee of the whole House , which also mean that the many victim group will not be able to come before the House and voice their objection , and then one day for Report and Third Reading . the Government clearly hope that the Bill will also go through its future stage unnoticed by their constituent , who , they hope , will not know that Labour mp want to let rapist and paedophile out of prison early . [ interruption . ] that be the reality of the Bill that they be vote through . Labour Members be chuntere and say , " shameful . " what be shameful be that they be prepare to vote for that policy this evening . shame on all of they . the Leader of the Opposition , the shadow Justice Secretary and I will do our utmost to hold Labour member to account for this grave , grave injustice to victim and their family . we will do our good to make sure that their constituent do know , do hold they to account , and do understand the choice that they make in the end . I honestly do not believe , despite the chuntering , that that be a choice many of they would want to make if they have listen clearly to the position that I have set out . I do not think it be a choice that any of they come to this place to make . we have see Labour Back Benchers exercise their power over the welfare Bill . they can do that again — if not tonight , in future stage of the Bill , because we will seek to amend it . Labour Members can support we in that . rape , assault by penetration , rape of a child under 13 , assault of a child under 13 by penetration , incite a child under 13 to engage in sexual activity , pay for the sexual service of a child under 13 , kidnapping or false imprisonment with the intention of commit a sexual offence , create or possess indecent photograph of child — tell your whip that you will not support people responsible for those offence be let out of prison early . do your job as representative of your constituent , do your job as advocate for woman and girl — Order . " you " and " your " — it have to stop , Dr Mullan . Labour Members should do their job as advocate for woman and girl and advocate for all victim of crime , and vote against these horrendous proposal this evening . I see that we have a fresh Minister , whom I congratulate and welcome to the Dispatch Box . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be delighted to deliver the closing speech on Second Reading of this important Bill , which will tackle the prison crisis that we inherit from the Conservative Government and confront the scourge of reoffende in this country . I thank all member on both side of the House for their thoughtful contribution to the debate — some more thoughtful than other — because this should be an agenda that enjoy support throughout the Chamber . Most of today ' s debate have be measure and helpful , indicate a recognition that it be necessary to stabilise a break criminal justice system after 14 year of Tory misrule and to prioritise victim and the prevention of crime . the Bill achieve that aim . it be necessary to fix our prison crisis , and it be also desirable , as it will confront reoffende and keep our community safe . as my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister say in his opening speech , it take we back to the central purpose of sentencing : punishment that work . let I deal with the conservative amendment and the argument we hear from the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , and the shadow Justice Minister , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) . they say that the Bill put the public at risk , but without it we face the threat of prison run out of place entirely , with no space to lock up the most dangerous offender , which be their legacy when they leave office last July . they say it will undermine the confidence of victim , but nothing be bad for victim than prison run out of place and crime go without punishment , which be their legacy when they leave office last July . they say that the Probation Service can not cope , and it certainly could not cope under the Tories , with a botched part - privatisation that cost taxpayer hundred of million of pound and a persistent shortage of staff . we be begin to rebuild the Probation Service . we will increase investment in probation by up to £ 700 million by 2028 - 29 , which be a 45 % increase . we be recruit : we hire 1 , 000 trainee probation officer in our first year , and we be on track for 1 , 300 more this year . it be worth remember that this legislation be carefully draft as a result of an independent sentencing review lead by the former Conservative Justice Secretary David Gauke . I take this opportunity to thank he for all his work , as well as the previous ministerial team at the Ministry of Justice , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) . it be a great shame that the opposition have attempt to play politic on sentencing and law and order . the Conservatives could have adopt a more mature position , appreciate the difficult context in which this government take office . they could have draw on previous conservative tradition on rehabilitation and prison reform to support an agenda that aim to cut reoffende and keep our community safe . instead , they be more interested in social medium click than serious government . it be their mess that make this legislation so urgent . it be their failure to deliver appropriate prison place and their failure to confront reoffende rate and invest in community sentencing that have lead to the mess this Government be clear up . as for Reform , I listen to the speech of the hon . member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Sarah Pochin ) , and I say with the great respect that it be quite clear she simply have not read the Bill . she be give ample opportunity during her speech to set out what reform ' s position be , and she simply refuse . [ interruption . ] I be happy to give way to she , but I notice that she be not go to intervene . she lend on her role as a magistrate , and there be an enormous number of magistrate across the country , but I note that the Judicial Conduct Investigations Office say of her time as a magistrate that her behaviour " fall below the standard expect of a magistrate " , and her speech fall below those of an MP . I want to address a number of the point raise by hon . member in this debate . the issue of probation be raise by the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , whose expertise in this area we will no doubt lean upon . it be also raise by my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) and my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) . we be very aware of the pressure the Probation Service face , especially after the damage do by the last Conservative Government . that be why we be invest £ 8 million in new technology to lift the administrative burden on probation officer and enable they to refocus their time on where it have the great impact . I join the Justice Secretary on his first visit to speak to probation staff , and they tell we how important that technological change could be to the work they do . however , that be not enough , and as I have say , we be increase funding by £ 700 million — a 45 % increase — and hire more probation officer . my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) raise the issue of trade union , and the challenge that this new sentencing regime will place on probation officer . I reassure he that I and the Justice Secretary will be have conversation with the trade union throughout this process . electronic monitoring be raise by a number of member , include the Chair of the Justice Committee and my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe . there be significant challenge in how we ensure that tag work , but we know that tagging do work . there be clear and reliable proof of an individual ' s whereabouts and behaviour , and reoffende rate be reduce by 20 % when tagging be use as part of a community sentence . that be why we be invest £ 100 million — a 30 % increase — on the big expansion of tagging since 1999 . the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) , speak passionately , as he always do , about victim . in my submission , this Bill strengthen protection for victim in our system . the Government inherit a prison system that be in crisis , and — as I have say before , but it be worth repeat — if our prison collapse , it be victim who will pay the price . the Bill be not just about build prison capacity and stabilise the prison system . the legislation aim to go far in offer victim protection . the Bill update the statutory purpose of sentencing to make it clear that judge must consider the protection of victim during sentencing . this be a really important reform and I be very pleased to hear that the Liberal Democrats support that aspect of the Bill . on domestic abuse , I again praise the hon . member for Eastbourne for his campaign on the domestic abuse flag . I listen to the argument he make today and I will no doubt have further conversation with he in future . the domestic abuse flag be a massive improvement to ensure that protective service across Government — local government and Whitehall — have well power to track domestic abuser and keep victim safe . I be pleased that that measure have receive so much support . I would push back on the argument we have hear today about short sentence . I want to be absolutely clear , on behalf of the government : we be not abolish short sentence . judge will have the power to send offender to prison when they want to : where a court order have be breach , where there be significant risk of harm , and in any exceptional circumstance . I want to put it on record that in many domestic abuse case short sentence have a really important role to play . they will continue to play that role under this legislation . very briefly , Madam Deputy Speaker — I be aware of the time — we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) , who bring great expertise from his experience in the police . he speak about the depressing reality of reoffende in our community , whereby offender be catch and put in jail for a few week , and then come out and reoffend again . that be why we be take this action today . alongside sentencing reform , we need well rehabilitation in our prison . that be why my hon . friend the Members for Colne Valley ( Paul Davies ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) raise important issue relate to literacy and gambling . I have already have conversation with my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South and I will be have more with my hon . friend the Member for Colne Valley . before I close , I will address two short issue if I may . the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) and my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich Albion — [ Laughter . ] forgive I , I get carry away there ; it ' s nearly recess . I mean my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) . they raise important and very serious case relate to drive offence . I reassure they that I have hear their speech and will follow up in due course about the specific case they raise , but also the general issue . my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) raise a number of issue , but one very important one be youth sentencing . youth sentencing be outside the scope of the Bill , but I reassure he that I will be look into the consequence of this legislation for youth sentencing in due course . there be few more acute crisis than that which this Government inherit in our prison . last summer , the Government take the difficult but necessary decision to keep the system afloat . now , we need long - term and sustainable reform , and that be what the Bill deliver . alongside our effort to boost prison capacity , it be time for fundamental sentencing reform to stabilise the prison estate , confront our rate of reoffende and deliver punishment that work . we know it be possible because the evidence be clear , but we must have a laser focus on public protection and reduce reoffende . that must mean a system that incentivise offender to become well citizen , not well criminal , and react swiftly when they breach the condition of their release ; that put strong restriction on offender serve sentence outside prison , enforce they where possible with the good technology available ; that tackle the root cause of reoffende ; and that put victim first , with the right safeguard to protect they . it be a great shame that , as I say , the Opposition have choose to chase social medium traction , rather than engage sensibly with this important agenda . the modern iteration of the conservative party have stick its head in the sand on progress , rather than face up to the legacy it leave . I be pleased the Bill do not shirk from the challenge we have be give , but face up to it head - on and deliver the change that will keep our community safe in the year and decade ahead . I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Mims Davies David Davis Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Priti Patel Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Gavin Williamson Mike Wood James Wild Lincoln Jopp Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Fabian Hamilton Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Diana R . Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Deirdre Costigan the House divide : Ayes 78 , Noes 292 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Steve Darling Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul davy Shaun Davies Bobby Dean Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Fabian Hamilton Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Pippa Heylings Meg Hillier Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Liz Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Shabana Mahmood Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Alex Norris Dan Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Luke Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Deirdre Costigan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Mims Davies David Davis Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Priti Patel Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Gavin Williamson Mike Wood James Wild Lincoln Jopp the House divide : Ayes 340 , Noes 77 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . Sentencing Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Sentencing Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee of the whole House , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House , any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be take in two day in accordance with the follow provision of this order . ( 3 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall be take on the first day and shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on the first day . ( 4 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third reading shall be take on the second day . ( 5 ) any proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the second day . ( 6 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on the second day . ( 7 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 8 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Claire Hughes . ) question agree to . Sentencing Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Sentencing Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( 1 ) expenditure incur in connection with the deportation of foreign criminal ; ( 2 ) expenditure incur in connection with the processing of information about foreign criminal . — ( Claire Hughes . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Building and building that the draft Building Safety Levy ( England ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 10 July , be approve . — ( Claire Hughes . ) question agree to . petition - Plan for neighbourhood Funding I rise to present this petition on behalf of the resident of Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North . the petitioner declare that their constituency " should be consider for support from the Government ' s forthcoming plan for neighbourhood fund . " in particular , we hope that we can raise money from this fund for reinvestment and regeneration in the area of Glebe Farm and Tile Cross . it be an area rich in community spirit and bless with extraordinary community group , but it have suffer grievously over the last few year . this funding could make the world of difference . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to allocate funding to Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North constituency , declare that this constituency should be consider for support from the Government ' s forthcoming plan for neighbourhood fund . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to re - allocate funding under its plan for neighbourhood to support Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003112 ] Petition - Road Safety Near Primary Schools in Suffolk Coastal I rise to present a petition about road safety around primary school in Suffolk Coastal . there be grow concern about speed and dangerous driving that put child , parent and staff at serious risk . many school also lack basic measure , such as 20 mph zone , pedestrian crossing and safe walking route . in fact , I have one school that have a 60 mph road along the outside of it . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure Suffolk County Council prioritise the safety of child by develop and publish a tailored Road Safety Action Plan for every primary school in the Suffolk Coastal constituency . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the Suffolk Coastal constituency , declare that there be grow concern about the prevalence of speeding and dangerous driving near primary school across the constituency , which put the safety of child , parent , and school staff at serious risk . this petition far declare that many school lack adequate road safety measure such as 20 mph zone , pedestrian crossing , speed enforcement , and safe walking route . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure Suffolk County Council prioritise the safety of child by develop and publish a tailored Road Safety Action Plan for every primary school in the Suffolk Coastal constituency . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003114 ] Petition - Peatland Protection I rise to present this petition which call on the Government to protect our peatland in any new planning framework or legislation . I want to thank all the 486 signatory to the petition and the friend of Lindow Moss , which have campaign for year to protect Lindow Moss in Tatton , a site make famous by the discovery of the preserved Iron Age body know as Lindow Pete . the petition rest on the premise that we must protect site of environmental and ecological significance and that we can not allow the destruction of site of natural carbon capture . we must ensure that the ecological and environmental benefit of peatland remain for generation to come . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to require a special development strategy in relation to peatland as part of any new planning framework and legislation . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Tatton , declare that the vital importance of peatland be recognise from an environmental perspective in term of both carbon storage and unique biodiversity , and measure implement to protect it from environmental harm and impose specific responsibility on strategic planning authority to protect peatland environment . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to require a special development strategy in relation to peatland as part of any new planning framework and legislation . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003115 ] Police : Professional Standards Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Claire Hughes . ) I welcome the Minister to her place . I request this debate follow some shocking constituency case that I have deal with since my election to this place last summer . I be sure that I be not the only Member to have serious concern about the police complaint and professional standard process . it be important that I make it clear from the outset that this be not a criticism of the hard - work police officer who do a fantastic job with limited resource . I must take this opportunity to pay tribute to my excellent local sector inspector Adam Stonehill and Gregory Hodgkiss for their dedication and hard work . however , I must always give voice to my constituent when they feel that a justice have occur and there be a clear need for wholesale institutional change . systemic issue in the professional standard department at Devon and Cornwall police have shatter my constituent ' trust in the police . while knock on door during the general election last summer , I meet one such constituent . Lisa Rufus have completely lose faith in the police and feel that she would never see justice for her son , Kye , who be involve in a motorcycle accident involve a collision with a car back in 2019 . he suffer life - change injury . Kye be find by the police to be entirely at fault , and he be therefore not entitle to any compensation from his insurance company for his result 24 - hour care need . kye ' s mother Lisa raise a series of serious issue about the way the investigation be conduct . crucially , the investigate officer have decide not to close the road in accordance with usual procedure when a fatality be likely , and , quite incredibly , a forensic collision investigator be not call to the scene by the investigate officer , even though the explicit guidance in the College of Policing ' s authorise professional practice be that the role of forensic collision investigator and lead investigator be completely separate , and an individual should not perform both role , as occur in this case . other concern about the case include the fact that Kye ' s bike be later remove and destroy without Lisa or any of her family be inform . the police initially tell Lisa that there be no body - wear camera footage from the scene , yet it later emerge that there be — but only after Kye have be take to hospital . the initial police report describe how Kye must have slide across the road uphill , yet his clothe show little sign of tear or scuff . a report from paramedic and a car mechanic mention serious damage to the car , but that be not detail anywhere in the police report . Lisa make a complaint to the professional standard department at Devon and Cornwall police and receive a detailed response eight month later , on 12 February 2021 . it take oral evidence from police officer who have attend the scene that day . Lisa ' s complaint that an investigation of poor standard reach its conclusion at too early a stage be uphold by the investigate officer , as be her complaint that Kye ' s motorbike be scrap without she or her family ' s knowledge , and that no photograph of it be take beforehand . in that report , one police constable explain how they feel reluctant to share photo of the scene with Lisa and her family because she do not feel it be a true representation of the scene . she say , " I feel these photograph would raise more question for the family and would not instil confidence in the investigation " . " another pc state that he be " astonish by the poor quality of the evidence package . " the investigation report be then review by a chief inspector who , quite incredibly , overrule all the report ' s finding , and state that the service provide by Devon and Cornwall police be " acceptable " and that there be " no further action to be take . " no reason or rationale be give for this decision . Lisa then complain to the police and crime commissioner ' s office , who again find that the service she have receive be unacceptable and request that reason be give for this dramatic change . the chief inspector then follow up on 23 September 2021 , detail his reason for reverse the decision make in the original report and reiterate that the service be acceptable , though he do admit that there be " investigative issue which could have be do well " — this despite reverse the decision to uphold Lisa ' s original complaint that a poor standard of investigation have occur . on the complaint that Kye ' s motorbike be destroy without inform the family , the chief inspector explain that there be no " write record of this " ever take place that , but from the information available , it appear every effort be make to inform Lisa of the intention to scrap the motorbike . he go on to conclude that , give the conflict account , no definitive resolution can be determine — and yet he reverse the decision to uphold that complaint to " not uphold " . I write to the professional standard department back on 5 November 2024 , highlight my serious concern about this entire process that have arise from the response Lisa have receive to her complaint . I finally receive a response almost one year later , on 10 September , just a few day ago . this letter say that the chief inspector have be mistake in set out a second right to review and point Lisa to her right to seek a judicial review through the High Court if she be not satisfied with the response she have receive . I ask the Minister , be that really the only recourse for our constituent in this kind of situation ? unfortunately , this be not an isolated case . a neurodivergent woman who be rape by her partner raise a complaint with the professional standard department last year due to the lack of any update on her case , which , quite rightly , increase her anxiety that the perpetrator may retaliate for report he . when I request an update from the police , they advise I that a complaint be already pende in the system so they could not access or update we on the case . quite incredibly , the pc suggest that if she remain unsatisfied , she could " make a complaint " . another constituent , a teenage girl who be also neurodivergent , be rape by her partner on a night out . the crime be report nearly two year ago , and the family have the impression that the case be already with the Crown Prosecution Service . they be recently tell that the suspect be be re - interview . if they make a complaint , can they have any confidence that they will get a satisfactory response ? professional standard set the tone and the culture for the whole organisation . I pay tribute to Roy Linden , who be the commander of South Devon police , the old F division . there be a significant challenge relate to the lack of knowledge within the police . there be lot of new officer , and if we do not have the professional standard hold people to account , police often fall short of the standard that many of we would expect of they . I completely agree that it be essential we have police officer with the experience , skill and knowledge , to ensure that people have proper trust and confidence in our police and confidence that complaint will be deal with properly . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? Mr Shannon , I be begin to get a little bit anxious , but finally you be on your foot . I be hold my breath on this one . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure the debate . he have give three example of thing that have happen . do he agree that in a world of grey , it be imperative that the conduct and professionalism of our police force be black and white and that officer understand that once they put the application form in , their conduct must be of the high standard , and this will be enforce at the high level ? I completely agree we must hold our police officer to the high standard , particularly when it come to complaint . if those standard do not meet the threshold that we all rightly expect , we need to have a robust complaint system , in which we can have proper trust and confidence . I will quickly mention one more constituent case — that of another teenage girl , who be sexually assault by a close neighbour and have have to move away from the family home while the investigation continue for month and month , without any update at all from the police . I be afraid that the list go on . I be sure that other member will agree that one of the great privilege of be a member in this place be meet some really inspire constituent . the bravery of those young girl , and Lisa ' s relentless campaigning on behalf of her son , have inspire I . I be proud to bring their case before this House . to conclude , I ask the Minister to please clarify some of the following question . what can my constituent do when they have legitimate concern that have not be properly address by the complaint process ? clearly , a judicial review be completely out of reach for most of our constituent . I thank my hon . friend for his passionate speech on behalf of his constituent on this difficult issue . as other member have , I pay tribute to my police force , Surrey police . they do great work , but sadly thing sometimes do go wrong . I have have to deal with a number of case in my constituency office where the process have not work in the way we would all like it to . People have go to the police with complaint , only to find themselves in distress and unable to trust the outcome because , in effect , the local force — although also in another case with the Met — have mark its own homework . the complaint have stay with that force , which do not fill people with the confidence they need for their case . do my hon . friend agree that serious consideration be need ? if we want people to trust our fantastic police force up and down the country , we need to look seriously at the current situation so that we can move to one where other force review some of the most serious complaint . I hope that the Minister hear that suggestion of complaint about one police force potentially be review by another . that seem like a sensible suggestion that , importantly , would give a much - need sense of independence in our complaint system . will the Minister consider introduce a statutory time limit for a response to such complaint , give the long delay face by my constituent and by myself , when I have inquire on behalf of my constituent — almost a year , in the case I mention ? the guidance of the Independent Office for Police Conduct be to give complainant 28 - day , regular update on their complaint . that guidance clearly be not follow in any of the case I mention . what can our constituent do to ensure that those 28 - day update happen ? also , what be the current backlog of complaint ? will it be bring back to an acceptable level ? how many extra staff have be recruit or be in the process of be recruit to bring it down ? importantly , have frontline officer be draft away from their duty on the frontline to help reduce the backlog ? finally , as I say at the start , confidence and trust in our police force be so important . many people know of the soap opera at Devon and Cornwall police . we have have three chief constable under police and crime commissioner Alison Hernandez . we eagerly await the Government ' s rural crime strategy — something that my private Member ' s Bill , the Rural Crime ( Strategy ) Bill , also call for early this year . I urge the Minister to act quickly to restore that trust and confidence in the professional standard of our police . I thank the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) for secure the debate . as he know , I be a week into my new role as Policing Minister , but I do the shadow role for several year while we be in opposition . during that time and in the last week , I have speak at some length and in some detail about these issue . I pay tribute to Adam and Gregory , the police officer who he mention , for the work that they do . I also pay tribute to Lisa and Kye for the campaigning that Lisa have be force to do because of the situation in which she have find herself , which must be devastating for she as a mother . the hon . Gentleman describe Lisa ' s frustration very well , and I think that we all feel it too . the topic of professional standard in police in the wide sense be enormously important . the hon . Gentleman be right to make the point that confidence in policing have be track in the wrong direction in recent year . it be always worth have the humility to accept that politician have a substantially low level of trust , but we have see level of trust in police go down over recent year . the late figure in the crime survey for England and Wales show a small increase in trust level , so maybe there be shoot of improved confidence , but that have follow several year - on - year decline . when we come into Government , public trust have be shake by some very high - profile case , as the hon . Gentleman will know . the visible reduction in neighbourhood policing have also badly erode that sense of trust . at the same time , crime have become more complex : there be intense investigation into long - stand crime , an explosion of fraud and online crime , and a high expectation , rightly , from the public that crime will be deal with , although there may not necessarily be the resource available to do that . I be keen to carry on the work of the previous Policing Minister to ensure that standard be as high as they can be . we owe it to the vast majority of excellent police officer who be do a brilliant job that we ensure that those standard be high . last year , the previous Home Secretary announce some reform to police standard , lead to a raft of legislative change that strengthen the misconduct , vetting and performance system . new regulation be lay to enable chief constable to dismiss officer who fail to maintain vetting . I understand that be separate to the issue raise by the hon . Gentleman , but have a force where the leadership drive standard , whether through vetting , recruitment or value the work of professional standard team and ensure that their work be in the front of police chief ' mind , be part of the same picture . we have already make some change on that front , and we will continue to do so . we will put the vetting standard on statutory footing through regulation that we expect to lay this year . the Crime and Policing Bill that be currently go through Parliament also contain measure to strength misconduct and performance system , so , for example , when officer fall seriously short of the high standard expect of they , they will be swiftly identify and deal with robustly , include through a new presumption of dismissal for prove gross misconduct . those measure will change that landscape . the hon . Gentleman mention some very upsetting crime : we have to work hard and do well when it come to violence against woman and girl . last year , the former Home Secretary announce plan to strengthen the requirement on force to suspend police officer who be under criminal investigation for matter such as domestic abuse or sexual offence . strong progress have be make , and I expect new legislation later this year . I allude to the fact that we have sadly lose an awful lot of police officer with deep knowledge , and many of our police officer be relatively new to the position . will the Minister reflect on how we can build that long - term knowledge back into the police force , because that can drive well standard where service be be provide , rather than look for where thing have already fall over ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . we see a collapse in the number of police then huge recruitment under the last government , which mean that we lose a lot of officer and gain a lot of new officer . the turnover of officer be high than I would like it to be , for lot and lot of reason ; there be a whole other debate about keep our workforce where it be . we have to have people with experience and expertise , and we want to try to develop that through our neighbourhood policing plan , for example . we want an increase number of people work in those neighbourhood role , and we want they to stay in position . in previous year , neighbourhood policing be very much a turnaround profession in which people would work for a short period of time then move on to something else . we want neighbourhood police to be see as a brilliant thing to do in the long term as a police officer , and I hope that will help . it be very much our intention that those officer will be well police officer as a result of the expertise they develop about their community — the people who they be there to serve . the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) make a good point . I do not have all the answer , but it be absolutely key that we try to get that expertise and to get people to stay in the force for their whole career . as I be say , the Angiolini inquiry be consider a range of issue in police and the safety of woman . we be already work to deliver the recommendation from part 1 of the inquiry , and we will look very carefully at part 2 when it come out . the hon . member for North Cornwall mention the challenge in Devon and Cornwall police in recent time , and we all know about they . I acknowledge the significant progress that have be make by the force under the leadership of Chief Constable James Vaughan . the force have recently come out of the " engage " stage of monitoring by the inspector , which be a clear indication of progress , and I hope that the professional standard team be also on that journey of progress . when I meet the chief constable , I be sure that I will raise today ' s debate . regard the complaint system , the hon . Gentleman quite rightly talk about his constituent ' frustration . People who be dissatisfied can apply for a review to the police and crime commissioner or the IOPC , but whether the case get review or not depend on its nature . I be interested in the suggestion of other force police each other , as it be , and the White Paper on police reform consider some of these thing ; we be look at that at the moment and hope to publish it in the autumn . we can learn lesson from local government and elsewhere about how we ensure our policing be do in a way that mean that where there be problem , there be good and effective way of try to resolve they . I also hope our police be available to Members of Parliament , have good relationship with they and speak to each other , because that in and of itself be important . I would not undervalue the important role of member of Parliament in raise these case , and I hope that everybody have good relationship with their local police . Police and crime commissioner have an important role in this space as well . they be the one who be directly elect and responsible for hold their chief constable to account for the force ' s performance , and they be also responsible for the appointment , suspension and removal of chief constable . they have the ability to determine which officer be well place to lead the force . I be an MP from Sussex . we be about to go through local government reorganisation and see the creation of a Sussex mayor , and as part of that process , the role of the police and crime commissioner be go to become redundant . how do the Minister think that new mayoral responsibility be go to work in practice ? be it go to be exactly the same as it currently stand with pcc , or will it be different ? the hon . Lady make an interesting point . we be move to a system with an increase number of mayor , and the function of police and crime commissioner will roll into the mayoral authority . the responsibility vary from place to place — the large devolve mayoral combined authority be more developed and have big team . we will see these system develop over time , but it be an interesting development , and one that I think can work . I have work with mayor who have that policing function who have have a deputy mayor who have the police and crime commissioner role . that work very well — it can be a powerful thing — but of course , people do not like the changeover . if the hon . Lady identify particular problem or challenge , I be happy to have conversation with she and pick those up . I should conclude , or we will run out of time . I thank the hon . member for North Cornwall for secure the debate and for remember his constituent , on whose behalf he have bring these issue before Parliament . I would like to think that as we move towards the reform of professional standard across the whole of police , we will recognise that a lot of the challenge we face be matter of resource . it be not that the people who be do the policing be not great people ; it be often a matter of time and resource . however , it can not be right that people have to wait such long period of time and feel such frustration . of course , I will look at the case that the hon . Member have raise — if he write to I with more detail , I will be happy to look at it in more detail — but I thank he again , and thank everybody else for their useful contribution tonight . question put and agree to . House adjourn .