Oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Deputy Foreign Secretary be ask — Blue Belt Programme what recent assessment he have make of the impact of the blue belt programme on ocean health . the blue belt programme support the protection and sustainable management of 4 . 3 million sq km of ocean around Britain ' s overseas territory . the blue belt programme , directly fund by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , be a fantastic way not only to help with climate change but to improve our environment . one of the big threat to ocean be plastic , so will the Government consider strengthen the UN global plastic treaty in the upcoming negotiation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be interesting to note that 85 % of plastic pollution in the Pacific and indian ocean come from just six river , and therefore an international treaty really matter . the point he make be a good one , and it be at the centre of negotiation , which the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , be talk about last week in Ottawa . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the Deputy Foreign Secretary will be aware that over 90 % of the UK ' s biodiversity be within the overseas territory . I be privileged last summer to visit St Helena in the Atlantic ocean , where I be amazed by the natural biodiversity both on the island and in the sea around it . what more help be the british Government give to the overseas territory government to ensure that their biodiversity can be enhance and maintain ? I be glad that the hon . Gentleman have have a chance to visit St Helena — as have I in the past . it be one of the most remarkable place on Earth . on the issue of clean up the ocean and plastic , I can tell he that the UK be a found member of the high ambition coalition to end plastic pollution , which be a group of 60 country whose central aim be to stop plastic flow into the environment by 2040 . the overseas territory be not supplier of plastic but they be receiver of a lot of it , and that be why this be so important . the recent Environmental Audit Committee report — on the Arctic and the current one on the Antarctic , both of which I chair — have call attention to the excellent blue belt programme and how very important it be in the Arctic and the southern ocean . one of our recommendation be that the programme would work properly only if all the minister responsible for the Arctic in different department get together on a reasonably regular basis to discuss it . can the Deputy Foreign Secretary please advise on whether that committee have meet or what plan he have to call the meeting ? my hon . friend make an important point , and I be advise that the meeting be , I think , today . many of my constituent have write to I concerned that the UK be delay its ratification of the global ocean treaty , which could limit human activity in what would be know as sanctuary area in order to protect valuable marine life . have a Minister make an assessment of how that could work with the blue belt programme to ensure that our overseas territory have the high possible protection for their water and their biodiversity ? the hon . Lady make a good point . the Government be extremely well join up on that — I make the point early about the DEFRA Minister work closely with the Foreign Office on these matter — so I think she can reassure her constituent that that matter be very much in hand . Middle East : UN Security Council what recent step he have take through the UN Security Council to support progress towards a sustainable peace in the middle east . the UK play a lead role in secure the passage of Security Council resolution 2728 and 2720 , which set out the urgent demand for expand humanitarian access . the way to a sustainable peace , as my right hon . Friend say , be through humanitarian access . could he please confirm what the UK Government be do to ensure the full funding of UNRWA again , and what they will do to stop the Hamas terrorist group affect the supply of aid to palestinian citizen ? my hon . friend be right about the importance of aid get in , and UNRWA be a critical organisation in achieve that . he will know that we have have a chance to look at the Colonna report , and I speak about this matter with the UN Secretary - General yesterday when I be in New York . we be wait for the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services , which we expect to hear about soon , and we will then reach our conclusion on the good way of get aid into Gaza . my hon . friend may rest assure that we be do everything we can to ensure that aid get in . next Sunday will mark 100 day since the International Court of Justice warn of a genocide in Gaza , yet the israeli military continue to ignore the legally bind order of the world ' s high court , continue to bomb Gaza indiscriminately and continue to block vital humanitarian aid , all while the UK stand by and let the right - wing Netanyahu Cabinet blatantly undermine the court ' s legitimacy . can the Minister explain to I just what blatantly disregard international court and openly violate UN ceasefire resolution mean for the rule - base order he claim to uphold , because to I , my constituent , the Palestinians and countless persecute group across the world , frankly these rule be now not worth the paper they be write on ? what the hon . Gentleman say — the way he reflect on what the ICJ say — be not accurate . the ICJ call for hostage release , for more aid into Gaza and for Israel not to commit act that violate the right of Palestinians . the Government agree with those three point . will the Deputy Foreign Secretary take the message back to his boss that the insertion of british troop on the ground in Gaza will simply play into the hand of those who wish to divert attention far away from the existential conflict between Russia and Ukraine ? do he share my sadness that there be not a single mention of Ukraine in any of the question on today ' s Order Paper ? my right hon . friend will know that the Government be absolutely committed to do everything we can to help Ukraine . he will have see the Prime Minister ' s announcement last week on the increase in defence spending , and where that announcement be make . I very much hope that my right hon . friend will not draw any conclusion from today ' s Order Paper , but note specifically this Government ' s drive ambition to ensure that Ukraine be successful in beat back the Russians . the creation of a sustainable peace in the middle east will require the establishment of a palestinian state within the 1967 border . the Deputy Foreign Secretary will know that Prime Minister Netanyahu be now implacably oppose to the creation of such a state , so what will the UK do to oblige Israel to comply with the international peace process ? do he think a sustainable peace be possible so long as Mr Netanyahu remain in power ? many voice be hear within Israel , but the hon . Gentleman will recognise that the predominant view of the region , of the United Nations and of the regional power , the great power and the British Government be that a two - state solution be require , with both Palestine and Israel live behind secure border in peace and safety . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . More than 30 , 000 Palestinians be dead , more than 100 israeli hostage be still unaccounted for and Gaza be face famine . the war must end now with an immediate ceasefire . that need both side to agree . it be Hamas , not Israel , who reject the last internationally broker ceasefire deal . now a new offer be on the table , and Hamas now have the power to stop the fighting . do the Minister agree that Hamas should accept this deal and avert a catastrophic continuation of this war ? yes . the right hon . Gentleman make a very good point and , although these negotiation be fluid at the moment , he be right to say that Hamas should accept the deal that have be put on the table . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Minister know that secure a sustainable peace will require a massive aid and rebuild programme , in which UNRWA will have , and must have , a crucial part to play . indeed , he have previously acknowledge that UNRWA have a vital role to play in provide aid and service in Gaza . why , then , have assure this House that he will come to a decision on the future of UNRWA ' s funding when he receive Catherine Colonna ' s interim report , have he sit on that report for 10 day and say absolutely nothing about restore funding ? he now seem to be set we up for even further delay . it be simply not good enough . will he now tell we when this Government will make a decision on UNRWA ' s funding ? we have be very clear that we be wait for not one but two report . as I say , I discuss this matter yesterday with the UN Secretary - General . we know very well , as the hon . Gentleman do , that the asset UNRWA have in term of logistic , vehicle , warehouse and so forth , be essential for the supply of humanitarian relief within Gaza . we be consider the matter carefully . he will also know that Britain be not currently in deficit in its funding ; we be fully fund at this point for UNRWA . it have also receive additional resource , include private resource as well as new government come in to support it . we will consider carefully both those two report in full and then make a decision , and I will come back to the House to inform it when that decision be reach . persecution of Christians if he will make an assessment of the implication for his policy of the Open Doors report entitle " World Watch List 2024 " . the report provide a sobering account of the extreme difficulty face by many Christians around the world , note that more than 365 million Christians face persecution each year . as my hon . friend know , freedom of religion or belief be a priority for the UK , and we will continue to recognise and seek to address issue of persecution of Christians globally . I thank the Minister for her answer . it be great to see my hon . friend the Member for Eastleigh ( Paul Holmes ) on the Front Bench . the " World Watch List 2024 " lay bare the significant persecution that Christians face across the world and the increase pressure on church in China . during recent ministerial visit , what representation be make on this issue to the Chinese Government , alongside highlight other aspect of their dreadful human right record ? my hon . friend have always be a staunch advocate not only for the church but for all faith group in his constituency . it be unacceptable that Christians be persecute simply for practise their religion . he highlight China in particular , and we remain deeply concerned about the persecution there of Christians , Muslims , Buddhists and Falun Gong practitioner . he know that I be sanction by China for raise the issue of the persecution of the Uyghur Muslims . the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Berwick - upon - Tweed ( Anne - Marie Trevelyan ) , who be the Asia Minister , visit China last week , where she make clear our concern about its human right violation . I thank the Minister for that answer . open Doors produce the World Watch List report and we be deeply indebted to it for what it do . Pakistan continue to cause concern for I and many other ; there be Muslims , Sikhs , Hindus and Christians who can not have the freedom of human right and be persecute across all of Pakistan . how can we exert great influence to effect change in Pakistan and make it well for people when it come to worship their God as they so wish to do ? the hon . Gentleman be already apply a lot of pressure through his chairmanship of the all - party parliamentary group on international freedom of religion or belief , which take forward a Bill just last week . my co - Minister Lord Ahmad meet Pakistan ' s Foreign Minister , Ishaq Dar , in March to discuss the issue that the hon . Gentleman have raise , and the former Foreign Secretary have raise the issue of the persecution of religious community , include recent attack against the christian community in the Punjab . those conversation will continue , and the fact that we have commit to continue the role of the freedom of religion or belief envoy will provide we with the authority to do that . Illegal Migration : International Co - operation what diplomatic step he be take to strengthen international co - operation on tackle illegal migration . what diplomatic step he be take to strengthen international co - operation on tackle illegal migration . what diplomatic step he be take to strengthen international co - operation on tackle illegal migration . tackle irregular migration be a priority for Foreign Office engagement across our overseas network , through international forum , include at the G7 and European Political Community , and bilaterally . give the success of the agreement with Albania , which have considerably reduce the number of illegal immigrant cross by small boat , do the Minister believe that more of these agreement be necessary , alongside our Rwanda policy ? yes , my hon . friend make a good point . he will have see that on 17 April we sign an agreement with Vietnam to tackle irregular migration and reduce channel crossing casualty . the number of vietnamese people come across the channel have be one of the fast rise group in recent month . recently , the Irish T á naiste state that he believe the increase in irregular migration to the Republic of Ireland be a direct result of the deterrent effect of our Rwanda policy . the Irish Government have since make move to try to remove those illegal migrant back to the UK . what conversation have my right hon . Friend have with EU counterpart and Home Office colleague about ensure there be no return policy with the EU unless a reciprocal agreement be make ? my hon . friend make a very good point : what be sauce for the goose be also sauce for the gander . the movement of asylum seeker from the UK to the southern Irish Republic would suggest that the Rwanda agreement be already have the deterrent effect we be seek . I have be say for some time in this place , and many other place , that a combined effort between french and english force would be very useful on the ground in France to stop the boat from even get to the beach in the first place . we have the technology and we can destroy the boat ; I do not see why we do not do that . my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) and I wish to visit Calais to meet the mayor to discuss that idea . will my right hon . friend join we ? that be an unbelievably tempting invitation from my hon . friend . recently , we have see a 120 % increase in french troop on the ground and a 36 % reduction in the number of migrant come across compare with last year , so french troop on the ground be deliver what be require , at least in part . the Irish Republic ' s Government and their Justice Minister indicate that they believe that up to 80 % or more of those who be illegally in the Republic of Ireland be come across the land border , but that appear to have be a purely subjective figure . have the Minister be able to establish the veracity , or otherwise , of such an exceptionally high figure , which the Justice Minister have claim to be the case ? we have not because , as the hon . Gentleman will understand , that be a southern irish Government responsibility . no doubt the southern Irish Government will be press on this matter and will deliver an answer in due course . on one hand , the Minister say he want to improve international co - operation on tackle illegal migration , but on the other hand he say the Government be not willing to come to an agreement with the Government of Ireland or any other european country on return of asylum seeker . I do not say anything of the sort , Mr Speaker . we be work together in numerous international fora , include the Global Refugee Forum , the G7 , the UN General Assembly and the European Political Community summit , to tackle this matter upstream . work upstream and work with other be critical to resolve this deeply disturbing problem . I call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . the only way to stop boat at sea and illegal migration be through structured co - operation with our neighbour and internationally . I welcome the signing on 23 February of the agreement between the UK and EU ' s Frontex border protection service , but be it properly fund and what mechanism be in place to review that funding as it evolve ? surely the Minister must agree with I that the good way to tackle illegal migration be to fund safe and legal route properly . what progress be he make on a comprehensive deal to that end with our EU friend , include Ireland ? we need to tackle this issue , as I think the hon . Gentleman be imply , on a series of different front . we be work upstream , as the deal with Vietnam demonstrate . our Prime Minister have substantially repair the relationship with France . the Calais Group have meet the UK - France custom partnership . we work closely with Frontex . there be far more official now in Britain deal with these case . as the Prime Minister have make clear , once this matter have be resolve , he be go to look at bring in safe and legal route from elsewhere . Gaza : humanitarian Situation what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . what step he be take to help get more aid into Gaza . what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of the humanitarian crisis in Gaza . what step he be take to help improve the humanitarian situation in Gaza . we have treble our aid commitment in the past year and we be do all we can to get more aid to Gaza by land , air and sea . the Colonna review be give no evidence to back up claim by the israeli Government that UNRWA staff be involve in the 7 October attack . other country have already restore funding to the aid agency , so it can continue its work feed ten of thousand of people who be starve in Gaza , include innocent baby who be die without milk . will the Minister commit to refunding today ? or will he continue to risk UK complicity in use famine as a weapon of war ? I have set out the process by which we will judge how and when to restore funding to UNRWA , but the situation have improve in recent week . the hon . Member will have see that fuel for bakery have be restore . we be press for the activation of the water pipeline and , over the past week , we have be average more than 200 truck each day . progress have be make , but there need to be a lot more progress , and Britain will continue to press for it . when Putin invade Ukraine , the people of Blyth , Cramlington and Seaton Valley come together and generously give what they could spare . with help from local company , such as Moody Logistics and Storage in Cramlington , we be able to ensure that aid reach those who have lose their home and their belonging . what plan do my right hon . friend ' s Department have in place to get aid from the UK to Gaza ? I pay tribute to the good people of Blyth , Cramlington and Seaton Valley for their generosity , and to my hon . friend for help to channel that goodwill so constructively . his constituent will want to support reputable non - governmental organisation and charity work to support humanitarian relief in Gaza . Israel have force more than 1 million Palestinians to flee to Rafah , claim it to be a safe zone , yet for month the israeli military have be bomb Palestinians there relentlessly and , accord to the UN , kill mostly woman and child . now it be plan a ground invasion that will lead to carnage . do the Minister agree that President Biden could stop this with one phone call , and will he press he to do so ? President Biden have be very heavily engage in this matter . as the hon . member know , both the american and british government have press Israel not to launch an all - out assault on Rafah for the reason that she set out . the shadow Foreign Secretary rightly say that he hope that Hamas will accept the current deal on the table , and I agree with he . an Israel ground invasion in Rafah be probable within day , lead to 1 . 5 million displace Palestinians with no safe place to shelter . child in Gaza have be starve at the fast rate that the world have ever see , and member across the House , include myself , have come here time and again ask for something to be do in term of deliver aid and push for a ceasefire . time and again , the Minister say that we be try , try , try , but clearly try be not work . what will the Government do to move the dial and stop child die ? the hon . Member will have see the 6 April maritime announcement and she will know that Britain be ramp up the delivery of aid by land , sea and air . she will , I hope , be aware that we have a naval ship stand by with £ 9 . 7 million of aid and logistic equipment . there have also be 10 air drop already from the Royal Air Force ; an 11th one be expect today . therefore , the british Government be do everything they possibly can to move the dial , as she request . as the Minister will know , it be not only government and NGOs support Palestinians across Israel , the west bank and Gaza , but a lot of charity . I have be contact by one such charity , ABCD , which operate a centre for disabled palestinian child in the Nur Shams refugee camp . it tell I that its centre have be raid and destroy not once , but several time , by the israeli army — not by settler . what more can the Government do to protect the facility and personnel of british charity operate in the palestinian territory ? my right hon . friend will know that we do everything that we can in that respect , but if he be able to give I some specific detail about that particular charity and what have befall it , I will look into it . the Prime Minister have identify get aid in and get hostage out as two key priority for the UK Government . Israel be facilitate aid get into Gaza by air , land and sea , with 468 truck enter the area in a single day . we be see real progress on aid ; when will we see progress on hostage , too ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . we need to see breathing space so that we can get the hostage out and more aid in ; in spite of what she say , the aid that be get in at the moment be not sufficient . that be precisely the policy of the British Government , and we will continue to pursue it with all vigour . I call the shadow Minister . give that the Colonna report make clear that donor should have confidence in UNRWA and that Australia , France , Germany , Sweden , Canada , Japan and Denmark have all restore funding , and with Gaza face famine , I ask the Deputy Foreign Secretary again : when will the Government do what Labour have call for and restore full funding to UNRWA ? as I have set out , we be look at all those report and we will make a decision in our own time . Britain be not fall short in that respect , because we be currently fully fund on all the early commitment we make . we will look at the Office of Internal Oversight Services report and the UNRWA reaction to it . we be aware of non - traditional donor and private donation come in , and UNRWA be fully fund until the end of May . when we reach our conclusion , I will be sure to inform the House of it . Strategic Export Licences : Israel if the Government will revoke strategic export licence to Israel . as require by the UK ' s robust arm export control regime , the Foreign Secretary have review the most recent advice about the situation in Gaza and Israel ' s conduct of its military campaign . the british position on export licence be unchanged , but we will keep that position under review . give that the very purpose of the UK ' s arm export licence criterion be to apply a precautionary principle to arm sale to prevent they from fuel future atrocity , and give the extensive evidence of potential war crime and violation of international humanitarian law by Israel in Gaza , surely it be clear that the UK export licensing system be not work . do the Minister agree with I and the countless midlothian constituent who have be in touch with I that the Government should now suspend the transfer of arm to Israel in order to prevent future atrocity , and do he agree that UK Government policy allow for that decision to be make at the discretion of Ministers , outside the fail export licensing system ? our position on the arm embargo be consistent with most of our like - minded partner , who have not take any decision to suspend exist arm export licence to Israel . it would be an odd decision for we to take when we have use our own military weaponry to defend Israel from the attack by Iran . export be link to law , of course , and the White House say yesterday that the International Criminal Court do not have jurisdiction over Israel because , rather like the USA , it be not a signatory to the statute of Rome , which set up the Court . More than three year ago the then british Prime Minister write an open letter say that the UK do not accept that the ICC have jurisdiction , again because of the statute of Rome and the absence of sovereignty over the situation in the region . can the Deputy Foreign Secretary confirm that that be still the position of his Majesty ' s Government ? I can tell my right hon . and learn Friend that we do not think that the ICC have that jurisdiction , as be set out in the letter to which he refer , but it be a matter for the ICC ultimately to reach a determination on that . British Embassy : port - au - Prince what step his Department be take to support the welfare of staff in the british embassy in Port - au - Prince . the safety of our staff be paramount , and a decision be take in November 2019 to move the last UK base staff member in Haiti to the neighbour Dominican Republic . the security situation since have not allow we to consider return permanently . we have two country - base staff member in Haiti ' s capital , who we be in constant contact with . they be work from home and there be no specific threat to they base on they work for the UK . when Haiti ' s transitional council be swear in last week , the location of the ceremony have to be change owe to gunfire erupt from nearby criminal gang outpost — a stark reminder that Haiti be a country far from political legitimacy . what step be the Government take to assist the transitional council in order to ensure that a new President be democratically elect in 2026 and that we do not see they target with violence in the meantime ? we be work closely with international partner , include the United States , Canada and , very importantly , CARICOM — the Caribbean Community — and of course we be also work incredibly hard to ensure that we provide every support we can for the multinational security support mission . the Foreign Secretary have already pledge fund for our support for that important mission . I welcome the UK ' s £ 5 million commitment towards the deployment of the multinational security support mission in Haiti . will my hon . Friend tell the House a little more about how that mission be be deploy , and can he expand on the discussion that he have have with our friend in the Dominican Republic about their security on the border with Haiti ? I thank my hon . friend for his important question about the Dominican Republic . I be there at the end of March and meet President Abinader . we talk about the situation and the importance of the MSS . clearly , the Kenyans will need to decide how they move forward , but as have be say , the put in place of the transitional presidential council be an important moment . I call the shadow Minister . half of Haiti ' s population be starve , violence be rife , dead body lie forget on the street . for too long this crisis have be ignore . as the Minister know , that grave situation risk also destabilise the wide caribbean region , include our overseas territory , with the Turks and Caicos island less than 200 mile away . can the Minister confirm the UK ' s donation to the UN fund — the Government miss that out of their statement — and lie out what other diplomatic support the Government be offer to address the crisis ? most importantly , beyond the other thing that I have mention , we be work closely with the UN Security Council , which be a vital forum here , and we continue to work with like - minded country to help with the establishment of the MSS . the hon . Lady rightly highlight the importance of humanitarian support . we be one of the major donor to the UN central emergency response fund , and there have be an authorisation of disbursement of $ 12 million to support those affect . conflict in Gaza : Iran what assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of Iran ' s role in the conflict in Gaza . Iran ' s support for proscribe group operate in Gaza , such as Hamas and palestinian Islamic Jihad , compromise our effort towards a sustainable ceasefire in Gaza . Iran continue to operate in violation of the joint comprehensive plan of action . its nuclear programme be way beyond anything need for purely peaceful process . however , it do not end there : Iran be threaten journalist on UK street , and its proxy in Hamas , Hezbollah and the Houthis continue to inflict tragedy on the region . what be my right hon . friend ' s assessment of whether the JCPOA be still fit for purpose ? my hon . friend make a good point . alongside international partner , we be prepared to use all option available to tackle the difficulty that he describe , include trigger the UN snapback and end the JCPOA if necessary . as probably the only member who have actually live and work in Gaza , I must say that I have be heartbroken over the past six month by what I be hear from friend and colleague there about the almost total destruction of the healthcare system and the impact of widespread starvation on their patient . with the UK have defunde the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , still supply arm to Israel , and often defend Netanyahu ' s policy , be the Minister not anxious that the UK Government be undermine international law itself ? no . the hon . Lady will have see how , in respect of UN Security Council resolution 2720 and 2728 , Britain ' s diplomacy work to move people into a common position . we be very clear about the importance of get aid into Gaza and get the hostage out , and all british policy be bent , without fear or favour , towards achieve that . rafah : Military Offensive if the Government will make an assessment of the potential impact of a military offensive in Rafah on the humanitarian situation in that area . we be deeply concerned about the prospect of a military offensive in Rafah . we need an immediate humanitarian pause to get aid in and hostage out , then progress towards a permanent , sustainable ceasefire . the Foreign Secretary be fortunate to have such an able deputy , which make it all the more difficult to understand the inherent complacency in that answer . we be hour away from a bloodbath that will make Falluja pale into insignificance — it will be the bad bloodbath see in the world since the second world war . some 1 . 6 million people , most of they woman and child , be 72 hour away from a full - scale invasion . the Minister keep say that we be go to press Israel ; what be the Government go to do about it if it happen ? the hon . Gentleman and I first enter this House on the same day , nearly 40 year ago , and it be no surprise to see he back in his place . it have to be say that throughout that time his view have be remarkably consistent . give the number of civilian shelter in Rafah , it be not easy to see how such an offensive could be compliant with international humanitarian law in the current circumstance , and on his overall point , I hope he will recognise that the british Government be do everything we can to prevent the circumstance he have describe . " sustainable calm " be the late buzzword , but the fighting simply have to stop . in the past two day , palestinian President Abbas have say that in order for there to be sustainable calm or a ceasefire , the United States must give a warning to Israel . what warning have the UK Government give to Israel when it come to a possible ground invasion in Rafah ? I refer my hon . friend to the comment I make early . he will know that the british and american government have be work in lockstep to prevent the situation he have describe . International Parental Child Abduction what recent discussion he have have with his polish counterpart on international parental child abduction . I recognise the distress cause to all those affect by international parental child abduction , particularly the child . the primary global mechanism for deal with international child abduction case be the 1980 Hague child abduction convention . due to the persistent campaigning of my right hon . friend , the Foreign Office have raise this matter with the Polish Government , include the Foreign Secretary raise it with his counterpart . the Minister be fully sight on what be , frankly , one of the most tragic and appalling case : that of my constituent , Mr Tom Toolan , whose polish ex - partner defy a family court order and take their daughter Rhian to Poland . this case have be go on for too long — for many , many year . I thank the Department for the engagement it have be have . the Minister will also know that there be hundred of other case of child be abduct that be specific to Poland . with the change in the Polish Government at the end of last year , what further plan do the Minister and the Government have to give real support to my constituent ? his life be be destroy by this , and it can not go on . it be not sustainable any more , and he have be let down by polish court order again and again . my right hon . friend ' s persistent campaigning have make sure that the case of Tom Toolan have be raise regularly with our polish counterpart . the Government have raise it many time , include on 9 April with the Minister of Justice . the Foreign Office remain committed to use every appropriate opportunity to raise issue surround the enforcement of court order under the 1980 Hague convention , as well as individual case , with the Polish Government . as my right hon . friend will know , now that I have take over this brief , I be absolutely committed to ensure that we be return child to the parent they have be allocate to by court . Sudan : Humanitarian Situation what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of the humanitarian situation in Sudan . this year , the UK will nearly double its support for people in Sudan , with £ 89 million in aid . that be nearly double the amount we set out at the beginning of last year , but in the past quarter , we have augment that figure as well . I thank the Minister for that answer . the sudanese city of El Fasher be the western region of Darfur ' s humanitarian hub , but the US ambassador to the UN have say that El Fasher " be on the precipice of a large - scale massacre " . what be the Minister do to avert this impending crisis ? the hon . member raise the position of El Fasher , and I specifically speak about this with the UN Secretary - General , Ant ó nio Guterres , yesterday . she be absolutely right , and we be do everything we can . as she will know , Darfur be a particular focus of the british Government — and indeed of Parliament , through the all - party group on Sudan and South Sudan — and , through a number of mechanism , we be do everything we can to try to ensure that the people in Darfur be protect . I do not know whether the Deputy Foreign Secretary have have the opportunity to see the evidence that frontline aid worker give to the International Development Committee last week . it be very traumatic evidence , but the one chink of light be their positivity towards the work that the fcdo have be do to try to continue education for child displace during this crisis . will my right hon . friend give a commitment that that support will continue and , indeed , be enhance ? I be very grateful to my right hon . friend for what he have say . we be seek to assist 500 , 000 child under five in Sudan . he will know that 8 . 6 million people have be displace , 2 million have flee across border and 17 . 7 million be suffer acute food insecurity . more widely , 730 , 000 sudanese child be suffer from the deadly form of malnutrition . I call the shadow Minister . as we know , and as have be say , right now an offensive be under way to capture El Fasher , the last remain city in Darfur outside Rapid Support Forces control . the risk of massacre and rape target at non - arab community be imminent , and I fear that it will be simply appal in scale . all arm supply to the war side must stop , and we thank our tireless diplomat , alongside African Security Council colleague , for Friday ' s statement at the UN , but what mechanism be the Government use , with our partner , every single day to build pressure for an immediate ceasefire and a sustainable peace ? we very much hope that Jeddah 3 will be the next significant opportunity to negotiate . what we require be a ceasefire , with the troop return to barrack , and a political track . when I be in Adr é on the Chad - Sudan border a few week ago , I see for myself the difficulty of support Darfur , include with food . the hon . Lady , and indeed the House , may rest assure that Sudan be not forget and that Britain , as the pen holder at the United Nations , be do everything it can to help . Nicaragua : freedom of Religion or Belief what step he be take to support freedom of religion or belief in Nicaragua . the UK be commit to defend freedom of religion or belief for all . we share widespread international concern about the suppression of human right in Nicaragua , include the right to freedom of religion or belief . we continue to call , in bilateral and multilateral setting , for the Nicaraguan Government to respect democracy and all human right . three all - party parliamentary group , include that on international freedom of religion or belief , recently produce an inquiry report , " the Silencing of Democracy in Nicaragua " , outline widespread , grave and brutal human right violation by the regime against journalist , academic , political opponent , religious leader and wide civil society . our report make recommendation for the UK Government and other state . what public step will Ministers take , both unilaterally and jointly with other country , to challenge those violation , to support the victim and survivor , such as Bishop Á lvarez , and to call to account the nicaraguan regime for such violation , in line with our recommendation ? I very much welcome the report . it be good to meet my hon . friend and parliamentary neighbour , the respected special envoy on FORB , to review the report — I read it with interest and will respond to the inquiry member shortly . she can be assure that we continue to call out this behaviour — this unacceptable behaviour — by the regime , which do not respect human right and certainly do not respect freedom of religion or belief . Jimmy Lai what step his Department be take to support Jimmy Lai during his trial in Hong Kong . we have call for an end to british citizen Jimmy Lai ' s prosecution in Hong Kong and for his release . the Foreign Secretary raise his case with the chinese Foreign Minister in February , and I raise it during my visit to Beijing and Hong Kong last week . would Ministers agree that this dreadful case show the true nature of the chinese communist regime ? could we be do more to really get a stout defence of british citizen throughout the world , include Vladimir Kara - Murza in Russia and Jimmy Lai in Hong Kong , who be part of political show trial in authoritarian or fascist state ? Mr Lai have face multiple charge to silence and discredit he , and he have be target in a clear attempt to stop the peaceful exercise of his right to freedom of expression and association . my hon . friend raise an important question about dual national and the challenge that our consular team face in country that do not recognise that british nationality . we will continue to champion they , and we have consular team at Jimmy Lai ' s trial almost every day and will continue to provide what support we can , include to his family . I know that the Minister take a close interest in this issue . have she or any other Foreign Office Minister have an opportunity to raise this directly with the chinese ambassador ? I have raise this issue with the ambassador , and be able to raise it last week when I be in Beijing with my Foreign Minister counterpart . I call the shadow Minister . the trial and detention of british citizen Jimmy Lai show the symbolism and importance of get a grip on the question of Hong Kongers and their right . can the Minister confirm that when she be in Beijing she be able to get the balance right between the legitimate trade interest and the importance of human right , freedom of religion or belief , freedom of expression , and all those other moral and political duty that we have in foreign policy ? I be able to meet many different group , from business to civil society and religious voice , and indeed political interlocutor , last week in Beijing and also in Hong Kong . I raise very firmly all those issue , such as freedom of expression , without fear or favour . they be robust discussion . it be so important that we be able to engage so that we can have those conversation . our complex relationship with China and Hong Kong continue but we will continue to stand firm to make sure we champion and stand up for all those who defend those freedom . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the Government continue to stand up for our value , our ally and those most in need . the Foreign Secretary attend the NATO and G7 Foreign Ministers meeting and reaffirm our unwavering commitment to Ukraine . he urge partner to increase their support in line with the Prime Minister ' s pledge of 2 . 5 % of gdp for defence . I return overnight from the United Nations in New York as part of Britain ' s contribution to the international conference on population and development 30 and our work on Sudan and secure funding to stave off a famine in Ethiopia . condition in Gaza be desperate and civilian be suffer . it be now an immense issue . water have still not be fully switch back on and famine be take hold . the World Food Programme report that 90 % of people in northern Gaza be live on less than a meal a day . will the right hon . Gentleman clearly outline what his government be do to alleviate the threat of famine and prevent its further spread ? we be try to make sure that the water be restore , as I set out early , and we be champion the provision of aid by land , sea and air , and I set out the help we have receive from the Royal Air Force in that respect . but at the end of the day , the right way to get aid into Gaza be by road and we be press in every way we can to ensure that that access be restore . follow on from that discussion about get aid into Gaza , sometimes we need novel way of thinking about do that , so what conversation be my right hon . friend have with other country and counterpart about open a new maritime corridor if the road route be fail ? my hon . friend make a good point . we be work closely with a number of partner government , include the United States of America , Cyprus and the United Nations . Maritime discussion include corridor planning for the delivery of UK aid and our package of support include equipment and the use of the Royal Fleet Auxiliary Cardigan Bay . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . last week the US Congress agree a new $ 61 billion aid package for Ukraine . the bipartisan co - operation lead by Mike Johnson be essential if Ukraine be to continue to defend against Putin ' s illegal invasion . I be proud that this House will stand united on Ukraine for as long as it take to win . will the Minister update the House on progress with our G7 ally to seize and repurpose frozen russian state asset in the UK , to support the reconstruction of Ukraine ? the Government be seek agreement on a way of advance this matter with the G7 . the right hon . Gentleman be right about the mechanism , and we be do everything we can with our ally to achieve precisely what he describe . Hamas be rightly an internationally proscribe organisation , yet the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , which fund and support Hamas , be not . should it not be ? the list of proscribe organisation be keep under review , but we do not comment on whether any particular organisation be be consider for proscription . however , the Government have take measure to counter the threat from Iran , include sanction the irgc in its entirety . Tibet be currently rank as the least free place for civil and political right by Freedom House , alongside Syria . there be credible report of torture , extrajudicial killing and serious restriction on freedom of expression and freedom of the medium . last year , three independent UN expert warn that almost a million tibetan child be coerce into a residential school system design to systematically assimilate they into Han culture . what diplomatic step have the Government take to hold the chinese Government to account for these grievous violation ? order . this be topical question . the Government consistently raise human right issue with the chinese authority , as I do during my visit last week , as I have mention . we also regularly raise Tibet in multilateral forum , such as in January at China ' s universal periodic review and in March as part of our item 4 statement at the UN Human Rights Council . many people in the Aylesbury constituency be understandably concerned about the plight of Palestinians in Gaza . they condemn the appalling action of Hamas , but at the same time want the UK to do everything possible to get more aid in . can my right hon . friend let they know what further plan he have to provide more aid directly , especially with our friend in the region , include Egypt , Qatar and Jordan ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his thought and idea , which he come and speak to I about last week . he be convey the view of the mosque in Aylesbury . we be pursue many of the idea that he set out , as he know , especially on meet the evident humanitarian need that have rightly preoccupy the House today . one month since UN Security Council resolution 2728 pass with UK support , what be our Government do to bring about the immediate ceasefire in Gaza , the compliance with international law , the release of hostage and the passage of aid that it call for ? what be the consequence for non - compliance , apart from more death and destruction ? as the hon . Lady know , UN resolution 2728 , which be pass on 25 March , reflect the international consensus behind the UK ' s position about the importance of get aid in and the hostage out . that be what we be bend every sinew to achieve . bear in mind Lord Cameron ' s unique responsibility for Libya , follow our intervention in that country during the arab spring , what be the Government do to help the libyan government to tackle the enormous fraud that be take place from the sale of oil from the libyan state oil company ? we continue to work closely with the Government in Libya . Lord Ahmad and I keep in touch on these matter , and I will update my hon . friend far . when the International Court of Justice , almost 100 day ago , send Israel for trial , plausibly on charge of genocide , the british Government call it a foreign court . what attitude will the Government take if , as be widely report , the british King ' s Counsel chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court issue an arrest warrant for Benjamin Netanyahu ? I think the hon . Gentleman be speculate in an extraordinary manner . what the Court say at the time be that the hostage should be release , that there should be more aid into Gaza and that Israel should not commit act that violate the right of Palestinians . that be where the Court rest at this point , and we must wait for further event . ahead of the UN General Assembly high - level meeting on antimicrobial resistance , do my right hon . friend agree that it be vital to build the political will of developed and develop country to prioritise tackle AMR ? what discussion have he have with his counterpart come up to this high - level meeting ? my hon . friend be right . an enormous amount of work be go on in respect of AMR , which be be discuss extensively this year at the United Nations . Dame Sally Davies , who lead for Britain on this vital issue , be do a fabulous job , and Britain be commit to do everything it can to make real progress . as of 9 April , eight field hospital be reportedly active inside the Gaza strip , with some operate at 265 % of their capacity and with a shortage of medication and supply . what be the UK Government do to help facilitate medical evacuation , particularly of child ? we have work extensively with our partner in the Gulf on evacuation , and Britain be do a great deal through our medical support for the field hospital we have in Gaza as well as to support other humanitarian and medical activity , which be so vital there . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . british citizen Ryan Cornelius have now be imprison in the United Arab Emirates for 16 year . in 2022 , the UN determine that he be " arbitrarily detain " , and before the Deputy Foreign Secretary come to his current position , he sign a letter call for his immediate release . on Saturday , Ryan turn 70 , and his child have grow up without he . will the government please update we on what they be do to get he home and whether they will lodge a plea for clemency , give his age and ill health ? I assure my hon . friend that fcdo Ministers and official continue to raise the case of both Mr Cornelius and Mr Ridley with the UAE authority . we be urgently look into the information provide by the family and seek expert advice . we will follow up with the people concern when we have more information . the propose EU - UK youth mobility scheme would have allow 18 to 30 - year - old UK citizen to work and study in the EU without barrier that the Government ' s Brexit have create , yet the Tories and the Labour party immediately rebuff the offer . what be the message to young people across the UK who be watch opportunity be block by Westminster ? the EU scheme require people between the age of 18 and 35 — I do not realise that you be still a young person at 35 — to have absolutely free movement . that discussion have be have at length both in the Chamber and during the Brexit vote . what we do have be bilateral youth mobility scheme , which we be more than happy to propose with interested party . on Gibraltar , the Minister have state that our current EU negotiation be consistent with UK sovereignty . how will that be achieve , give our defence and RAF asset as well as any nuclear naval capability that the UK have in that region ? how will our sovereignty be guarantee at the border if there be a Schengen border post on the soil of Gibraltar ? my hon . friend can be assure that we will continue to safeguard the sovereignty of Gibraltar , which be much cherished . he can also be assure that in the negotiation we will fully protect the operation and the independence of the UK ' s military facility in Gibraltar . I very much look forward to discuss this more fully in front of his Committee tomorrow morning . despite repeat claim by the saudi authority that they would abolish the death penalty for child , child defendant be still regularly sentence to death . some 11 have be execute since 2015 . child defendant Abdullah al - Howaiti , Abdullah al - Derazi and Youssef al - Manasif have all receive death sentence for crime allegedly commit before the age of 18 . in April 2020 , saudi authority issue a royal decree purport to abolish the death penalty , but that appear to have be an empty promise . will the Minister intervene and impress on they their human right obligation ? we continue to engage with the saudi authority on this and , as the hon . member know , we push back on the death penalty be use in any country around the world . when will the Foreign Office and the Home Office abandon their ridiculous pseudo security argument that be prevent the return of Shamima Begum and other woman and child from northern Syria ? our ally oppose that policy because they know that it risk turn those child into tomorrow ' s terrorist . my right hon . friend , who know a great deal about this matter , speak with considerable authority on it . I have no doubt that his voice will be hear in both the Foreign Office and the Home Office . Spain , Norway and Ireland be ready jointly to recognise Palestine as a state within week . four other european country look likely to follow suit , and France recently vote to admit Palestine as a full member of the UN . be it not time that the UK Government join their european partner in recognise Palestine ? as we have make clear , recognition of a palestinian state can not come at the beginning of the process , but it do not have to come at the end . could the Deputy Foreign Secretary update we on the state of our relation with Djibouti , and his assessment of the impact of the UK recognise the memorandum of understanding between Ethiopia and Somalia on the development of the port of Berbera ? do he have any plan to visit Djibouti ? if so , may I give he some advice ? I be pleased to tell my hon . friend that I have visit Djibouti , without suffer the fate that I be so sorry he suffer . as he know , we be take up this matter with the authority in Djibouti . Israel ' s deliberate and wilful starvation of Gaza be a war crime , yet the Government deflect all question on UNRWA funding by say that it run until the end of April . we be here — today be the last day of April . if the government do not restore UNRWA funding , be they not aid and abet israeli war crime ? I have make very clear the Government ' s position on UNRWA . we be in a process , and after it have be complete I will report to the House . Ahmed Ali Alid , the moroccan asylum seeker convict last week of murder 70 - year - old Terence Carney , wander through 13 european country before enter the UK illegally and claim asylum . do the Minister agree that we must redouble our effort and work with international ally , and that we do not want criminal like that in our country ? I understand the hon . Lady ' s concern . I be not familiar with the case , but I will follow up and get back to she . Port Talbot Steelworks ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Wales if he will make a statement on Tata end the statutory consultation on redundancy at Port Talbot steelwork . on 25 April Tata announce its strategic direction to proceed with its Port Talbot transformation , follow the launch of the formal national consultation with the union on 6 February . technically , the consultation have not conclude at national or local level . the statutory consultation remain under way , and I understand that the company intend to move to local consultation with staff who may be affect . this be a deeply concern time for the Tata workforce and the wide community . I hold regular conversation and meeting with the union and management , and will continue to do so as we develop intervention to build a bright future for Port Talbot . on 15 September we announce an unprecedented £ 500 million Government grant as part of the £ 1 . 25 billion investment by Tata Steel to build a new electric arc furnace . Tata Steel employ more than 8 , 000 people , include at Port Talbot . all those job — along with many thousand more in the supply chain — would be under threat be it not for the agreement that we strike . the transformation will be difficult but the funding have save 5 , 000 job in the company . it be not the case that we have pay money to put people out of work — we have pay a lot of money to save 5 , 000 job . we be also look to modernise production and ensure that steelmaking in south Wales can continue for generation to come . go beyond that , to support those affect by Tata ' s decision we have put £ 100 million towards the creation of the transition board , which I chair , and which include representative of the UK and Welsh Governments , local authority and industry . the funding include £ 80 million from the UK Government and £ 20 million from Tata — nothing as yet from the Welsh Government , but we hope that there will be some . it will be use to achieve the transition board ' s priority , the first of which be to support those affected employee to find new , well - pay job . the board ' s priority also include support business in the supply chain and the long - term regeneration of the region . in its most recent meeting last week the transition board endorse a local economic action plan , which will act as a road map for how good to use the funding to support those affect . while the ongoing consultation be a matter between the trade union and the company , we will continue discussion with all party . we hope a resolution be find that avoid industrial action . the Government will continue to work closely with industry to secure a sustainable and competitive future for the Welsh steel sector . I be confident of a good future for Port Talbot and the region , with the UK Government progress the bid by Associated British Ports to the next stage for up to £ 160 million of funding to support our nascent float offshore wind industry , and our progress towards establish the celtic freeport , back by £ 26 million of UK Government funding . last Thursday ' s news be a gut punch for worker in Port Talbot , with economic consequence that could reverberate across south Wales for decade . last month , I meet worker at the plant . the sense of the threat to nearly 3 , 000 people ' s livelihood be all - consuming . the wide supply chain in Llanwern , Shotton and Trostre be vulnerable , too . we again urge Tata not to make any irreversible decision before a general election . my hon . friend the Members for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) , for Newport West ( Ruth Jones ) and for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) have be proud vocal advocate for their constituent . in contrast , the Government have fork out £ 500 million of taxpayer ' cash for the loss of 3 , 000 job . that be their deal and they own it . in addition , the loss of sovereign steelmaking be a fundamental threat to our UK economy and security . it will constrain our ability to build the float offshore wind we need to lower energy bill , deliver energy security and create the job of the future . we be now around a month away from blast furnace no . 5 potentially close , so what assessment have the Government make of the impact of the closure on job loss at the plant and in the supply chain across Wales ? with the talk ongoing between union and Tata this week , do the Secretary of State , like I , want to see an agreement from Tata that compulsory redundancy will be avoid ? what step will he take to encourage such an agreement ? he have say that no one will be leave behind if they lose their job . will he publish the local economic plan that the transition board have agree as the basis for its investment decision ? with Labour ' s national wealth fund , the future of UK steel will be fuel by the skill , talent and ambition of Welsh steelworker , but until the country be give the chance to have its say at a general election , I want worker across Wales to know that Labour Members have their back . let I take the hon . Lady ' s point one by one . first , the £ 500 million investment will save 3 , 000 job . we be not pay money to throw people out of work ; we do not want to see anyone throw out of work . Tata have make a decision to close blast furnace base on the loss it be make . when it come to we , we say , " what can we do to keep people in work ? " this be the plan it come up with . secondly , the plan will have no impact on sovereign steelmaking . the hon . Lady , if she talk to Tata , will understand — [ interruption . ] she be chuntere , but all the iron ore that go into the blast furnace come from abroad , all the coal that be turn into coke come in from abroad , and all the limestone come in from abroad . it therefore have no impact whatever on our sovereign steelmaking ability . in fact , we have 8 million tonne of scrap steel in this country , much of which have be export abroad . we be go to use that scrap steel and put it in the electric arc furnace , which will increase our sovereign ability . the hon . Lady say that the plan will have an impact on our ability to create float offshore wind . last time , she say it would have an impact on our ability to create battleship . she need to understand that battleship be make use steel plate and that float offshore wind turbine be also make use steel plate . steel plate be not make by Tata at Port Talbot . tata at Port Talbot produce coil , which be thin and not strong enough to make either battleship or float offshore wind turbine . the hon . Lady ask about the number of people affect . we have be very clear about that from the start . [ interruption . ] I be try to answer the hon . Lady ' s question . she ask the question ; I list they and I be answer they . she ask about the number of job affect . we have say all along that we expect it to be around 2 , 800 , but it be for Tata to confirm that once it have go through the statutory consultation procedure . the hon . Lady ask whether we would encourage Tata to come to an agreement so that there be no compulsory redundancy . of course , we would . we do not want anyone to be make redundant against their wish . we do not want this process to happen in the first place , but as I say to her several time , Tata come to the UK Government with a threat to pull out , which would have cost 8 , 000 job and the entire supply chain . the hon . Lady ask if the local area action plan can be publish . it be not fully finalise yet — it be a road map — but she will surely be aware that the current First Minister be sit on the board as the economic development Minister . the labour economic development Minister in the Senedd be on the board . the local Member of Parliament be on the board , as be the local Senedd Member , the chief executive of the local authority , and the representative of three trade union , so it be hardly a secret document . it be not as if the transition board be meet in condition of great secrecy . if the hon . Lady have any further question , I be more than happy to answer they . when will the Government do something about the very high energy price in this country , which have be make high by regulation and taxis ? do my right hon . friend not accept that any kind of steelmaking will be extremely difficult if we have uncompetitive energy , and be it not wrong to import such material , because it will mean even more carbon dioxide emission , as well as destroy job here ? we have look carefully at the loss that Tata be make , which have come about partly because of the age of the infrastructure . in fact , Tata have have to close down the furnace at the Morfa coke oven within the last few week . the UK Government be fully cognisant of the cost of energy at the moment , which be why Tata have already benefit from many of the scheme that we have introduce over the past few year , will begin to benefit from the british industry supercharger scheme shortly , and will benefit from the carbon border adjustment mechanism at the start of 2027 . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . despite what the Secretary of State may claim , the Government be invest in support of plan that will lead to approximately 2 , 800 job cut , along with an irreversible cut in the capacity to produce virgin steel . Tata have announce that it will open a voluntary redundancy scheme on 15 May . can the Secretary of State update the House on what he expect the redundancy package to include , and will he join I in condemn threat that the company appear to have make to withdraw enhanced redundancy package if industrial action go ahead ? let I answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question directly . the value of the redundancy package will have to be agree between Tata and the trade union , but Tata have make it very clear that it want to go well beyond statutory redundancy . it have put out several figure , some of which could be more generous if there be no industrial action . I do not want to see industrial action , but I do not condemn the union either ; I think that they have play a very positive role in discussion on the transition board and outside it , and I understand the strength of feeling among people at Port Talbot . as for the two other point make by the hon . Gentleman , let I say this again , and say it clearly , so that everyone can understand it . Tata come to the UK Government and say that it be go to pull out of steelmaking in south Wales . that decision would have cost 8 , 000 job , as well as , we think , about 12 , 700 in the wide supply chain . official from the Department for Business and Trade want to come up with a plan that would save as many job as possible , which be where the arc furnace plan have come from . that plan will save 5 , 000 job , with a Government investment of half a billion pound . it be not the outcome that anyone want , but it be a well outcome to see 2 , 800 job lose than to see 8 , 000 lose . neither be a good outcome , but that be what we want to achieve . let I repeat that this be not really about a sovereign ability to produce virgin steel . all the element of steelmaking be be import from abroad . we be not about to start open up iron ore mine . steel be produce here with iron ore from abroad , limestone from abroad , and coke make from coal from abroad . we can not do this by ourselves . at the same time , we have 8 million tonne of steel that be be export . we will be make use of a resource that be already in our country . back home in Scunthorpe , we watch very closely what be happen in Port Talbot . what work have be do to determine the quality of those 8 million tonne of scrap and whether it will be suitable for use in the electric arc furnace ? may I also ask my right hon . friend to reflect on this point ? when it come to sovereign capability , the issue be not always what you be do and choose to make ; it sometimes come down to what you may need to make at some point in the future . may I remind my right hon . friend that we have a perfectly good mine full of coke and coal in Cumbria , and that there be an awful lot of limestone under the ground in this country as well ? my hon . friend be right that if we want to , we could probably find iron ore , coke , coal and limestone in the UK , but I do not see any great enthusiasm at the moment for open up the mine to do that . as for the 8 million tonne of scrap in the UK that will go into the arc furnace , official from the Department for Business and Trade and EY have go over very carefully the business plan be put forward by Tata . let I point out to my hon . friend that not only be the UK Government invest half a billion pound , but Tata be invest £ 750 million , so Tata obviously feel that there be a good , strong , commercial case for build that arc furnace , and be put its money where its mouth be . the Port Talbot steelworker in my constituency have give their life to the steel industry and to Tata Steel . the reckless deal that have be do by the UK Government and Tata be a hammer blow for they , and we hope that there be still time for the employer and the union to come together , drop the bad deal for steel , and adopt the compelling and robust multi - union deal instead . may I ask the Secretary of State about the role of contractor in all this ? everyone know that for every job lose in a steelwork , between two and three more be lose through supply chain and contractor , so the figure of 2 , 800 that be be use be a massive underestimate of the devastating impact , as there will be job loss through supply chain and subcontractor . do he agree that the number of job loss will be far high than 2 , 800 if this reckless deal be adopt ? if so , do he agree that it be time for everyone to pull back from the brink and adopt the multi - union plan , which offer we a bridge to the future , rather than the cliff edge that be currently be pursue ? clearly , there will be an impact on those in the supply chain ; there have be absolutely no doubt about that . at the last transition board meeting , at which the hon . Gentleman be present , we discuss that , and we agree that we would want to support anyone in the supply chain who have be affect , but we can not start put number on this . it would be irresponsible to start guess the number of people who will lose their job , but I agree with the hon . Gentleman that there will clearly be an effect . the hon . Gentleman talk about a reckless plan , but ours be the only plan on the table . he keep suggest that we adopt the Syndex plan , but it be not a plan unless Tata agree to it . I have discuss the Syndex plan with senior management at Tata and with the head of Tata Holdings , Mr Chandrasekaran , in Mumbai . he do not believe that it be commercially viable , and he believe that it would be technically far too difficult to try to build an electric arc furnace on the site of the steel melt shop . indicate dissent . the hon . Gentleman shake his head . I do not know what the answer be ; he say that it be possible to implement the Syndex plan , but Tata say that it be not . what the hon . Gentleman have to realise be that it be not the UK Government he have to convince ; it be Tata . the UK Government have never say that they would be against the Syndex plan . it be Tata that have to be persuade . I commend my right hon . friend for his comment , and for remind we that half a billion pound be no small beer when it come to intervention in a private industry . there be clearly difficulty with the transition , and a lot of we who care deeply about the steel industry in Wales and Britain be worried about our capacity to do what we need to in the future , as my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) say . what ongoing discussion be there on whether Tata will keep one of the blast furnace open for long than be set out in the plan , in which they be to be shut down by the end of this year ? I have have that discussion with senior management at Tata , as have member of the Labour party , trade union and many other . tata face loss of over £ 1 million a day as a result of keep the two blast furnace open . it say that those loss would continue even if one be function , because , first , it would have to make significant capital expenditure on blast furnace 4 for that to go ahead , and , secondly , it would have to import all the coke that go into that blast furnace , as the coke oven be shut down with the agreement of the union , because of health and safety concern . then Tata would face the additional technical problem of try to build an electric arc furnace on the same site as a steel melt shop contain hundred of tonne of molten steel that be pour off into caster . that be why it have say very clearly that it will not entertain the proposal . the UK Government have never say that we would not entertain the proposal . if Tata want to come forward with a plan to build the arc furnace , use the grant that the Government have put forward , while keep one blast furnace open for long , of course the Government would be open to discussion of that . I call Liz Saville Roberts . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Llefarydd . in the Netherlands , political pressure have result in Tata investing in an electric arc furnace and direct reduce iron technology , all while protect job and keep blast furnace open . the german Government be spend € 2 . 2 billion — over four time more than the UK be spend — on transition the country ' s steel industry towards hydrogen . why be the UK so uniquely incapable of effective investment in our strategic steel future ? a few people seem to have the idea that build a DRI plant would resolve this problem . the first point to remember be that if a DRI plant be build on the site , it would probably save another 200 job . there be a plant in Texas , run by Voestalpine , which I believe produce 2 million tonne or so of steel every year and employ 200 people , so a DRI plant will not resolve the problem . clearly , DRI plant require access to a regular and affordable amount of natural gas . there be , however , nothing whatsoever to stop Tata , at some point in future , build a DRI plant to go along with the electric arc furnace , if it believe that that be commercially sensible . even if it be to do that , it would not really resolve the problem that we face : 2 , 800 job be lose in Port Talbot . at well , it would save another 200 job . I be sorry , but this Government ' s lack of ambition for our steel industry be just disgraceful . as many of the Secretary of State ' s constituent work in Llanwern , he should understand that decision make about Port Talbot have a direct impact on Newport and can lead to problem with securing volume for Llanwern . we be look at potential redundancy , and uncertainty about the long - term future of the plant . it be not too late for the Secretary of State to stand up for his constituent , show more ambition for our steel industry — as other country do — argue for a fair transition , and try to avoid compulsory redundancy . why will he not do that for his own constituent ? we have acknowledge all along that under the proposal , Port Talbot plan to close down the pickle line at Llanwern , but not until the electric arc furnace be build . we discuss that at the last meeting of the transition board , and we all agree that just as we want to help everyone in Port Talbot , we want to help anyone affect in Llanwern . the hon . Lady keep talk about a lack of ambition . we can all dream about a situation in which blast furnace 4 be keep open for another six year , but what we can not do be force Tata to continue accept loss of over £ 1 million a day in order for that to happen . I have to say that there have be a lack of responsibility on the part of some Labour Members — though not any present in this Chamber — who seem to have go around suggest that they have a special , costed secret plan that would save all those job . they do not . they have not put any kind of a cost plan to any senior management in Tata . they have never sit down and say , " if you do this , we will give you this , and that way , we could save all those job . " they have simply go around say that they want to see all the job save . we all want to see every single job save , but we can not force Tata to continue to take loss of over £ 1 million a day . I come from an area of the country that suffer from industrial decline two generation ago , and the human impact of what we see happen to Port Talbot will blight the current generation . we talk a lot about a transition to a green economy . when will the Government invest in the national skill strategy that we need to provide ? People in Port Talbot be about to lose their job , and redundancy payment do not last forever . a generation will be blight . they need skill for the 21st century , so will the Government commit to a national skill strategy ? the hon . Lady ask about the money to support the town of Port Talbot . I have say already that there be £ 500 million to build an arc furnace that will save thousand of job . there be £ 15 million go into regenerate the town . there be £ 26 million of funding for the freeport , £ 7 . 5 million of funding for Launchpad and , as far as skill be concern , £ 80 million from the UK Government primarily to retrain people . there be another £ 20 million come in from Tata . there have not be one penny from the Welsh Government towards this endeavour . they have be able to find £ 120 million to spend on more Senedd Members , and £ 30 million to spend on 20 mph road sign , and we have just learn that they have lose £ 60 million , have set up a bank , but they have not be able to find one penny to support the steelworker at Port Talbot . be this not just the tail end of a Government who abandon the word " industrial strategy " a decade ago when I ask question on this matter ? why have the Government not have the ambition and the vision to realise the potential ? for example , if there be a plate mill on the site , it could produce the steel for the substructure and wind turbine that be plan to be build in the Celtic sea around the Milford Haven and Port Talbot freeport ? there be no industrial strategy , there be no vision and there be no joined - upness . there be just massive sticking plaster from this Government . there be discussion go on about the possibility of build a plate mill on the site when the electric arc furnace be complete . there be nothing whatsoever to prevent a plate mill from be build . the hon . Gentleman will not be aware of all the discussion go on , but I say respectfully to he that a plate mill will not save 2 , 800 job . we face the loss of a significant number of job as a result of the decision to close down the blast furnace , and even if a plate mill , a direct reduce iron plant or a hot zinc dip line be build on the site — all of which be reasonable thing to consider — it would not solve the problem that 2 , 800 people be face the loss of their job . that be why the £ 500 million for the arc furnace be so important , as be the £ 80 million for the transition board . we talk early about the supply chain . the repercussion of this decision will be feel across south Wales , so can I ask the Secretary of State directly whether he have secure any commitment whatsoever from Tata about the future of the worker at those downstream facility across south Wales ? yes , Tata have be clear that it be originally go to close those site but it now expect all those site to remain open . during the process of build the arc furnace , while the blast furnace be shut down , it will be bring steel in from elsewhere to make sure that the product be go into those other plant . with the closure of the coke oven make the viable lifespan of the blast furnace all the more precarious , and the electric arc furnace still be a long way off , we will rapidly reach a situation where Port Talbot can no long supply the Trostre work in Llanelli in my constituency , so what talk have the Secretary of State have with Tata boss about secure high - quality interim supply for Trostre and secure all the job there ? I have speak to Tata on that very issue . it have be clear that it would have to import steel to feed Trostre , and it be willing to do that . the timeline for the electric arc furnace be ambitious , but work be ongoing : the groundwork will start very shortly , the application for planning permission should go in in the autumn , and hopefully it will be turn round and deal with by early next year . it will then take about two year to build the electric arc furnace . the Secretary of State casually discard 2 , 800 job and be so uninterested in the ongoing effect on the rest of the economy in south Wales that he have not even make an assessment of what the economic impact will be on the south Wales valley more generally . can he clear up for we precisely how many other people ' s job be likely to be affect ? be he aware that , in the last few month , we have have 500 job go at UK Windows and Doors in the Rhondda and 100 job go in the last 24 hour at Everest 2020 in the Rhondda ? as my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) say , it do not feel as if the Government have an industrial strategy . nor do it feel as if they have an anti - poverty strategy . for that matter , they do not have a levelling - up strategy either , do they ? be it not time we have a new Secretary of State for Wales , so that we can get on and have a proper plan for the economy of south Wales ? I be sorry to have to say this to the hon . Gentleman , but it be slightly insulting for he to suggest that the tone in which I have set out the answer suggest casual disregard or a lack of interest . I assure he that nothing whatsoever in the Wales Office at the moment be more important than secure the future of Port Talbot . I be sorry , but frankly , while this government be put up £ 500 million to ensure the future of steelmaking in south Wales and demonstrate an interest in make steel , some Opposition Members be more interested in make headline . my constituent who work in Port Talbot inform I that there have be no progress on enhance redundancy negotiation between the union and Tata . give the scale of the public investment involve , will the british Government use their leverage to ensure that Tata treat its workforce with a degree of dignity ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . I think that Tata now need to come forward with a bit more information about who exactly we can expect to see be make redundant and what their current skillset be , so that we can begin target the help . the challenge up until now be that we have not have the information on who be be make redundant . Tata have make it clear that it will not automatically be the people on the blast furnace , for example , who be make redundant , because it hope to retain some of the people who be work there but offer redundancy to people in other part of the plant . we have not have the information as of yet , but I think the time have come to have that information . we of course want to ensure that any redundancy package be as generous as possible . my constituent who work at the Shotton plant be very worried about the news they be hear and concerned about their colleague ’ future , but they be also wonder what it mean for they . clearly there will be knock - on effect , not just in the supply chain but in other Tata plant around the country , so what assessment have the Secretary of State make of the short , medium and long - term impact of these decision on other plant ? we be very clear that while the arc furnace be be build , we want to make absolutely certain that all those other plant around Wales be able to receive product to finish , and Tata have be very clear that that will happen . it will have to bring it in from elsewhere over the next two to three year , but that will happen . there will therefore not be the impact that the hon . Gentleman be rightly concerned about . of course , that be possible only because of what some of the hon . Gentleman ' s colleague have describe as a reckless deal . what would have be reckless would have be for we to see Tata in an office and say , " okay , you ' re go to make 8 , 000 people redundant and shut down all these site , and there ' s nothing for we to do about it . " that would have be reckless . what we actually do be to come forward with a £ 500 million package of taxpayer ' money , and rightly so , to support the continuation of steelmaking in Port Talbot and to ensure that all the other plant in Wales — Shotton , Trostre and Llanwern — continue to receive product during that interim period , so that we do not see significant job loss anywhere else . it be an increasingly dangerous world , as the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) and the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) say , so will the Secretary of State release an impact assessment on Britain lose its sovereign capability to produce virgin steel ? it be start to feel a bit like groundhog day here . can I explain again that the iron ore , the limestone and the coke be all come in from abroad ? there be no sovereign capability to make steel in the blast furnace at Port Talbot . however , we be already produce high - quality steel in arc furnace that be use in the defence industry . I recently meet Sheffield Forgemasters , which be produce steel for nuclear submarine in an electric arc furnace in the United Kingdom . we have great hope and plan to build offshore float wind structure in the Cromarty firth and the surround area , which would be a fantastic use of the great fabrication skill we have there , but do the Government recognise that the continued production of steel — and very probably the increase production of steel — will be crucial to this plan become a reality ? yes , I agree with the hon . Gentleman that it be important that we have a means of produce steel that can be use to build float offshore wind turbine . technically , that be quite difficult to do . it would require either steel plate or a very heavily reinforce version of steel coil . I know that discussion be go on between Tata and at least one of the likely major investor in float offshore wind turbine to ensure that the steel can be make , and we hope that we will use steel from the electric arc furnace to do just that . I thank the Minister for his answer . it be clear that he be keen to find solution , but obviously many on this side of the Chamber — indeed , on both side — be a bit concerned . bear in mind that steel produce in Port Talbot be the backbone of much construction in Northern Ireland — which prompt the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) to highlight protocol problem with the Prime Minister in the past — I too want to express my deep concern and ask the Minister to explain where the steel for our construction sector in Northern Ireland will come from if the Government be unable to step in and save job in Port Talbot . in the short term , I assume that the steel go into the industry in Northern Ireland do not come directly from Port Talbot . it probably come from some of the other finish plant . I do not know the full detail of the exact grade of steel that go into the Northern Ireland construction industry , but I be happy to discuss that with the hon . Gentleman . Tata have make it absolutely clear that it do not expect any disruption in supply while the arc furnace be be build . everyone I have speak to — not just those at Tata , but independent expert — have say that 90 % of the grade currently produce use blast furnace can be produce use an electric arc furnace , and that the technology of electric arc furnace steel production be rapidly improve , so I would not expect there to be any disruption to supply in the medium or long term . Telegraph Media Group Ltd : acquisition with permission , Mr Speaker , I will update the House on the propose acquisition of the Telegraph Media Group by RB Investco Ltd . I will refer to the Telegraph Media Group as the Telegraph and to RB Investco Ltd as the purchaser . as the House will know , the sale of the Telegraph be currently subject to the medium merger process . today , I would like to confirm that the purchaser have notify I of its intention to sell the call option agreement that give it the ability to buy the Telegraph , in effect withdraw from the purchase of the newspaper . this step follow the intervention I make on the merger situation on 26 January 2024 , both to issue a public interest intervention notice , or piin , and to issue a pre - emptive action order . it also follow on from my announcement of 19 March on my assessment , follow the report of the Competition and Markets Authority and Ofcom , that I be minded to refer the merger to a far , more detailed phase 2 investigation . I have take these decision on the basis of the evidence in the case , and I will continue to do so . I be now update the House on the procedure and protection for the public interest that be in place in respect of the Telegraph , give the sale process that I understand will begin shortly . I have inform the party that it would not be appropriate at this stage for I to take a decision on whether or not to make a phase 2 reference . in my view , the relevant merger situation remain in contemplation . I therefore continue to have power , under the order , to prevent action by the party to the merger that might prejudice any phase 2 reference to the cma or make it more difficult for I to take action as a result of my final decision follow such a reference . the order prohibit the party from make significant organisational and staff change , include to the editorial team , without my consent . these restriction remain in place . however , I have now agree to derogation from the order that will give the party the flexibility and regulatory space to make all reasonable preparation for the sale of the call option agreement . it be important to be clear that I will not be engage with prospective buyer , nor select the preferred bidder . the sale process will be run by RedBird IMI alone . my decision on any further derogation from the order that RedBird IMI will need to receive to complete the sale of the call option agreement will be make accord to my power and obligation under the Enterprise Act 2002 , and it will be base on the public interest , rather than a qualitative decision on who should buy the title . any transfer to new ownership will also potentially be subject to the medium merger regime , as set out in the Act . it be appropriate for I to say a few word about the underlie matter . I initiate this process under the power I have under the Enterprise Act to protect the accurate presentation of news and the free expression of opinion in newspaper . these power be vital . the freedom of the press to express opinion , to criticise and to hold power to account be all a fundamental part of our democracy . it be often say that the freedom of the press protect not the press ' s freedom but our . it would not be appropriate for a foreign state to interfere with the accurate presentation of our news or the freedom of expression in newspaper . although these power under the exist medium merger regime be broad , the Government have take action to rule out newspaper and news magazine merger involve any influence , ownership or control by foreign state . we have do that by amend the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill , which will shortly return to this House . as a nation , we be a proud , open democracy and a strong trading power with a vibrant economy . although we be rightly limit power to interfere with our democracy , as many other state do , in term of foreign investment more generally we remain open for business . I end by recognise the strength of feeling in this House and the other place , and by recognise the work do by the Minister of State , my hon . friend the Member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) , by the parliamentary under - Secretary of State , Lord Parkinson of Whitley Bay , and in particular by the right hon . Baroness Stowell of Beeston . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of the statement . from the very start , Labour have question about the propose sale of some of our country ' s most highly influential and historical news publication . we share legitimate public interest concern about the accurate presentation of news , free expression of opinion and fair competition . we can not take those freedom for grant . it be disappointing that this weak Government do not do the right thing from the start . do the Secretary of State agree that this be not about single out the United Arab Emirates , our important partner ? she say that it be not appropriate for a foreign state to interfere with the accurate presentation of news , and I be glad that she have come round to that point of view , but surely no Government anywhere in the world , include our , should own any news publication . Labour will always act to safeguard the UK ' s strong and independent free press , regardless of any publication ' s political persuasion . we will champion its right to hold we to account . we will safeguard the freedom to scrutinise , to expose wrongdoing and to speak truth to power , because this be about protect our democracy . we , of course , welcome investment that make a valuable contribution to our diverse medium landscape , so we will closely follow this auction process . can the Secretary of State give we more information on the timescale for the auction ? what discussion have she have with trade union represent the staff of the Telegraph Media Group ? what step will she take to ensure that this be a free and open sale , and will she keep the House update ? what will she do to ensure a competitive medium landscape into the future ? it be important that the Secretary of State get this right . especially in an election year , our democracy be too precious to leave to chance . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for welcome this statement on the position in which we now find ourselves . I reiterate her point that the UAE be an important trading partner . the legislation relate to all foreign state . we welcome our relationship with the UAE . the hon . Lady say that this be an important point , and I have be very conscious of this matter since it first fall on my desk . from the outset , I have raise and deal with the concern in this case . although she raise it now , and I be not look at the complete record , I do not recall any occasion on which she have raise this matter either directly with I or in this House . freedom of the press be an important principle that we be uphold . as I say in my statement , I be already take step under the broad power in the Enterprise Act in a quasi - judicial fashion , which limit the other measure that one can take . on the timescale , I understand that certainty be need for the publication and for those who work for it . I expect and hope that this process will be conclude in short order , understanding , of course , that it be important for the sale process to take place . this be a regulatory process , and I will update Members and the House at appropriate stage . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and the decision of RedBird IMI , in effect , to withdraw from purchase the Telegraph . freedom and plurality be , of course , cornerstone of our medium , and political intervention should always be the last resort , but I agree with she that it be absolutely unacceptable for foreign state to have the potential to interfere with the independence and freedom of our press . what be RedBird ' s role during the period it take for a prospective buyer to be find ? will it be able to hold a non - control stake in the Telegraph at the end of this process ? the position on the governance of the Telegraph during this period be the same as it have be since I start this regulatory process . I have be concern at all time to ensure that the independence of the director , the manager and the editorial team remain . that be why I bring forward a pre - emptive order , which would restrict any change in that regard . a sale process will now take place , and it will have to follow any regulation that be in force and that will govern it . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . my Front - Bench colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Perth and North Perthshire ( Pete Wishart ) , and the SNP more widely be pleased about the decision and today ' s announcement . it feel as though the protection of the independence and legitimacy of the medium be something people feel strongly about across the House , no matter which party they represent . I be pleased that everybody be speak with one voice on the blocking of foreign interference in our medium outlet . I wonder about the way in which this process have happen . be she go to have a look at how it work and whether or not RB Investco and the UAE be able to exploit loophole to ensure that the process take long than it could have take in order for this decision to be make ? will she look at whether there be way of tighten up the Enterprise Act and the legislation to ensure that those decision can be make more quickly and loophole can not be exploit ? legacy medium outlet be struggle in a lot of way , and many of they may be look at alternative way of fund what they be do . will she make it clear that , like we , she feel that that freedom of the press from foreign interference be incredibly important , no matter what the financial situation of the company in question ? the hon . Lady talk about tighten up the process . we significantly tighten it in the amendment that the Government table in the Lords and be come back to this House today . that will indeed make sure that there can be no ownership , control or influence by a foreign state , because , as she make clear , that be an important part of our democracy . my right hon . and learn Friend will be aware that at the end of this week we have World Press Freedom Day , so her statement be particularly welcome . I congratulate she on the scrupulous way in which she have undertake her responsibility . she will be aware that the Enterprise Act be write before the internet exist and that it be six year since Ofcom say that there need to be fundamental review of our medium merger regime . will she therefore say what progress have be make on bring the entire regime up to date to take account of the massive growth of online news distribution ? I be very grateful for all the support my right hon . Friend give I when he be in the Department and for the expertise he bring with he on the wide medium and so many other matter . he make an important point : the medium landscape be change . that be why we be look at whether online news should be include in the scope of Ofcom ' s power . a number of staff at the Telegraph Media Group will be worried about their job , so what conversation have the Secretary of State have with trade union representative of staff at TMG ? I have just meet the amazing bright , talented student at Luton Sixth Form College who be visit today , some of whom may want a future in journalism , so will she say what impact this statement may have on medium job and our ability to ensure a competitive medium landscape in the future ? one measure I take when issue the public interest intervention notice and the pre - emptive order that follow it be to ensure that , whatever decision I take ultimately on this case , TMG be not prejudice by the potential purchase . the pre - emptive order have always say that there should be no change to the management or the editorial team of the Telegraph without my consent , to ensure that any change in the interim would not be prejudice by any ultimate sale , so I can give the hon . Lady the reassurance that measure be already in place to protect the staff at TMG in term of this purchase . by the order today , I have highlight that that pre - emptive order in relation to those staff continue . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for come forward with this statement and for make the right decision . do this whole process not demonstrate what my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) say early , which be that we be deal with a digital world with analogue tool and it take far too long ? it also lead to the peculiar situation whereby both she and the Minister for Media , Tourism and Creative Industries , my hon . friend the Member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) have have to come to the Dispatch Box despite be unable to say anything in answer to any question , which be slightly unfair on they . I know that an amendment be come through on another Bill , but we really need to speed this process up by say simply that no foreign state could own any of our medium . we now need to look at the online element of that as well if we can . let I offer my right hon . friend reassurance , because that legislation be come to the House today . I know that a lot of member of this House and of the other place raise those concern , and it be right that we bring forward an amendment to put absolutely beyond doubt that fact that it would be inappropriate for a foreign state to own our news medium . that be why we build on Baroness Stowell ' s amendment to put that beyond doubt and to put it in a form that work well . I be grateful to Baroness Stowell for the work she be put into her amendment . I recognise the other point my right hon . Friend make about online medium and it be absolutely something we be look at . thank be due to the Secretary of State for this decision . the Spectator will be free from foreign influence and can carry on describe I as , " a languid old gent who represent a craggy constituency somewhere near Norway . " as she say , that be freedom of speech and one must put up with what one must put up with — good luck to these eminent publication . do she realise , however , that also fundamental to democracy and freedom of speech be the continued survival of our myriad local newspaper the length and breadth of this sceptre isle ? they be in difficulty and if they go down , we will be the poor for it . I do not expect an answer now , but may I at least ask she to look at this issue as one that be important ? I absolutely understand that and I have do a number of roundtable where I have talk to the local medium sector . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that in the past we have have a local news fund . he will also be aware of the measure we have on business rate for local news medium . I be very conscious of the need to support our local medium , which play a vital role in ensure that we have local democracy . he will also know that one measure we put in at the mid - term review be to ensure that where the BBC take step in space where there be already a competitive media market , it should engage more widely with those it be affect . I strongly welcome the Secretary of State ' s clear statement of policy that foreign state should not be allow to take over press and medium in this country , which be a welcome development . I hope that in the proposal for amend the law it will be clear that the policy relate not only to government but to nationalise industry , public authority or company in which state have significant influence because of their shareholding . if that be not set out , such body may try to find way around the law . I be sure my right hon . and learn Friend be up to that , but can we please have an amendment that absolutely nail press freedom in the way we want it to exist — free of influence from foreign state ? I understand my right hon . friend ' s point . when we bring forward legislation , it be important that it do not have loophole . as a Department , we think very carefully about how we can protect against that . when the Bill come back to this House this afternoon , he will see that we have define foreign state ownership very broadly . we have extend the definition to include not only ownership but control and influence . far to the excellent point make by my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , may I press the Secretary of State ? in her statement , she say that the order prohibit party from make significant organisational and staff change without her consent , and that the restriction remain in place . will she agree not to consent to any deal that involve significant job loss ? obviously , it would be entirely inappropriate to say what decision I might take when exercise a quasi - judicial function without look at the evidence , which be exactly what I would do . I welcome the statement , not because of the UAE — after all , the UAE be a great diplomatic and trading partner of the UK — but because it get rid of foreign involvement in our medium . will the Secretary of State say more about how online and television medium will be affect by the order , because those be the grow medium outlet ? we have talk about freedom of the press , but will she advise we of how we can get rid of disinformation ? in the UK , we have outlet such as Press TV and China Daily , which be propaganda arm of quite nefarious regime , operate and work here . what be the Government do to stop those nefarious activity poison the mind of our young people ? there be so much that one could respond to in my hon . friend ' s question . I remind he that we be look at the online news space , which be vital . it be important to emphasise that Ofcom already have significant power in the broadcast space . it have already take action in relation to foreign involvement in our broadcast medium and ban certain entity from operate . we always need to look at how we tackle misinformation , and we be do so across Government as a whole . I thank the Secretary of State for her positivity in her response . will she highlight what step can be take to ensure that the scrambling that take place to protect freedom of british speech and medium from international corporation be not replicate ? will she consider provide legislative protection to that effect , which be vital as outside influencer seek to sway public perception for their own end ? that have to be recognise and protect against . it be important that we always have freedom of the press and that external force do not interfere with that freedom . I will be make a speech to the Society of editor this afternoon that the hon . Gentleman might wish to read , after I have deliver it . I be happy to consider the point he have make . I welcome the statement and the decision by the Secretary of State . it be in our national interest to protect our free medium . my question be about transparency and understand the logic behind the decision . the Secretary of State say that she have take into account the evidence . what key evidence do she take into account ? what be the pertinent aspect of the evidence that lead she to make that decision ? know that would give people outside the opportunity to look at the reasoning and rationale behind the decision . the first decision I take be that the threshold have be pass . I be concern about interference with the accurate presentation of news and the freedom of the press . the evidence I see enable I to say that the threshold have be pass , and to ask Ofcom and the Competition and Markets Authority to look at the matter more broadly . they do that and they take some time to give I a very detailed report , which I far consider . in my letter send in March , I set out the evidence from that report and my decision that I be minded to send the matter to phase 2 investigation . the letter in which I set out the evidence on which I rely have be publish , I believe . as a former journalist and a former member of the Society of editor in Scotland , I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement because press freedom be vital in a democracy , as she say . the insidious influence of foreign state have to be protect against , not just in newspaper but , as we have hear , online and in television and radio . do she agree that the matter be not settle with this step ? we have to be continually aware of the danger of foreign interference and the insidious growth of that influence in our medium by all mean . will the Government take that on board and continue to monitor the situation on a regular basis ? of course , the Government always keep matter under review . I can reassure the hon . member that we have a robust system to deal with interference with press freedom . we have that in the Enterprise Act ; my power as Secretary of State under that Act in relation to interference with the accurate presentation of news and the freedom of the press be clear and robust . I take various decision at each stage to ensure those matter be fully investigate . the hon . member can also take reassurance from the fact that the legislation that will be come back to the House this afternoon will put beyond that doubt , and set out that a foreign state can not interfere with our newspaper . every hon . member who have express a view across the Chamber be of the view , which I share , that a foreign state should not be able to control , influence or own a british newspaper . I welcome this intervention that mean that the UAE can not own Telegraph Media Group through RedBird IMI , but there be a suggestion that foreign government could potentially interfere with free speech at university that host institute partly fund by they . the Government - appoint director for freedom of speech and academic freedom have warn that foreign interference at university be go on in the UK . what lesson , if any , will be instructive for the Government ' s so - call university free speech tsar ? I be wholly in favour of free speech and ensure that people be not shut down for their view . the hon . member need to take up his point with those responsible for university . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . as our constituent look ahead to the May day bank holiday , in addition , on 1 May , Gujaratis and Maharashtrians in Harrow , across the UK and globally celebrate Gujarat Day and Maharashtra Day , mark the formation of the state of Gujarat and Maharashtra in India back in 1960 . the day be a moment of pride and celebration for all Gujaratis and Maharashtrians . it be a chance to honour the rich history , culture and tradition of both state , and , crucially , the often remarkable contribution of those of all faith in both community here in the UK . Mr Deputy Speaker , have you have notice of any intention by the Government to mark the contribution of both community here in the UK ? I thank the hon . gentleman for give notice of his point of order . I have not have any indication that the Government intend to make a statement on this subject , but he have place his point on the record . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . in almost nine year in this House I have never before raise a point of order , but I be oblige to do so now because of my exasperation with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . on 6 February , I write to Lord Cameron , the Foreign Secretary , ask for information about the UK ' s decision to withdraw funding from the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . to date , almost three month later , I have have neither acknowledgement nor response . give what be happen in Gaza , the urgent need for humanitarian aid and the role of UNRWA in that , I find that quite unacceptable . Mr Deputy Speaker , you will know that there be widespread disquiet in this House about the fact that we can not question the Foreign Secretary here in the Chamber . now , not only be he not prepared to answer oral question , but his Department be not answer write question in a timeous manner . can you please advise I of what action I and other member might take to get a response from the Foreign Secretary and to hold that Department to account ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give the Chair notice of his question . he will understand immediately that the Chair be not responsible for ministerial correspondence . I have note what he have say , and of course it be the case that all member should be entitle to receive timely reply . I trust that point will have be take on board by those on the Government Front Bench . presentation of Bill Tenant Farming Commissioner Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Tim Farron present a Bill to establish a Tenant Farming Commissioner ; to make provision about the power and duty of the commissioner , include power in respect of payment under an Environmental Land Management scheme in case where a tenant farmer have be evict ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June , and to be print ( Bill 208 ) . Public Amenities ( Adoption by Local Authorities ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require local authority to adopt public amenity in certain circumstance where specify minimum standard be meet ; and for connected purpose . People live in Harrow View West in my constituency have face a huge increase in their service charge since they purchase their property . build by Persimmon on part of the old Kodak site , neighbour the beautiful Headstone Manor Park , the start of the River Crane , home to the only moate manor house in London — now Harrow Museum — and with good transport link , Harrow View West should be a great investment for the many young family who have move into home on that development . many resident , however , have be leave very frustrated by rise service charge , their powerlessness and inability to secure clear and transparent information about those service charge and other dreadful customer service . Persimmon Homes and its management company , Residential Management Group , be as a result the source of considerable dissatisfaction among the resident for their more than double of the service charge since the resident take ownership of their property . not surprisingly , the resident now want Harrow Council to take over the ownership of the public space on the development — the road and the estate park — and the maintenance cost that be be force on to their service charge . the resident note that other not live on their estate can access and enjoy the public space on the development for free , while they be be charge . anyone can use the road in the development to park on , to access Headstone Manor or the surround road . despite the extra cost for the upkeep of these public space , resident point out that they still have to pay their council tax on top of the rise service charge . I be concerned that other development be plan in Harrow , or build now , will see resident face the same problem if new rule be not bring in urgently . as the law stand at the moment , the decision as to who be responsible for the public space in big new development be resolve at the planning stage . council all too often , and for understandable reason after 14 year of funding cutback , be wary of take on responsibility for new public space . their negotiation with developer about how maintenance cost for any new road , park or playground be fund often end with cash - strap local authority want those cost to be pay for first by the developer and then ultimately by the resident of the new development . this form of leasehold have be label " fleecehold " , because it lead to high cost for those live in newly build home than for those face by people who buy an old home on road for which the local authority be already responsible . the Competition and Markets Authority have look at this issue in detail during its market study into house building and have make it clear that it think that council should have a legal duty to adopt the public space in new development such as Harrow View West — the road , pavement , play area and open space . crucially , it think that developer should have clearly set out responsibility to meet high standard for those public space before they be hand over . I understand why , after year of austerity , local council want to avoid ownership of new estate and the responsibility for new public open space . too often , they simply do not have the money to feel able to do the right thing . but that be not fair on those live in newly build estate who move in with great hope , often with promise of low service charge , only suddenly to see rise service charge , which too often they have zero control over in practice . they have to deal with often unaccountable estate management company , yet still have to pay often rise amount of council tax . like , I expect , every Member in this House , many leaseholder in my constituency find themselves stick , face unjustified administration fee and charge , and ever - rise ground rent . leaseholder find themselves dependent on developer , freeholder and their manage agent to take action , which often take far long than it should , particularly give those rocket service charge . at Trident Point in my constituency , resident be subject to regular and extended period of lift outage . one constituent in the building be a wheelchair user . for he , lift outage mean that he be confine to his flat , deeply concerned about what would happen in an emergency . leaseholder be initially tell by Metropolitan Thames Valley Housing that resident would have to cover the cost of the lift refurbishment , which cause significant stress and worry . eventually , the housing association accept that the lift be still under warranty , so no cost be pass on . the lift be eventually refurbish and complete early this year . it take far too long to sort out , but we get there in the end . I thank Harrow Law Centre , which support resident on this issue at the time . in another example in my constituency — this time , Kinleigh Folkard & Hayward be the developer — leaseholder resident wait more than three year for action to be take by the manage agent , despite , again , rocket service charge . another developer , Jaspar development group , have cause difficulty for my constituent . its manage agent keep change , service charge keep go up , and there be still no resolution of resident ’ concern . this be also not the first time that I have see leaseholder find themselves financially responsible for the upkeep of what one would reasonably assume be public park and public amenity . in my constituency , Fairview have build another development that include a playground border the main road . it be manage by a management company on behalf of the freeholder . resident be worried that there be no fencing between the playground and the road and some have witness child go into the road to retrieve football . it would seem sensible that all option , such as signage and fencing , should be consider to keep child safe in that playground , but resident have be tell that it be not the local council that should undertake this work and that it be leaseholder who would have to foot the bill through their service charge . the playground be not just for the child of resident but , rightly , for all child to enjoy , so surely that should mean that the playground be adopt by the local council . I recognise that there have be some progress since the Law Commission publish its three report in July 2020 on leasehold reform . the Leasehold Reform ( Ground Rent ) Act 2022 , which apply only to new lease agreement , be a step in the right direction , but it still leave my constituent stick in unfair leasehold arrangement . the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill , currently make its way through Parliament , be very limited in scope . although I welcome that Bill , it do not go far enough : it do not ban leasehold ; it do not enact the recommendation of the Law Commission in full ; and , crucially , it do not tackle the problem that my constituent have face with unadopted road and public facility . we on the Opposition Benches be clear that a future Labour Government would make commonhold the default tenure for all new property . indeed , as my Front - Bench colleague have make it clear , we support enact the Law Commission ' s recommendation on enfranchisement , commonhold and right to manage in full . in addition , my Bill would deliver the recommendation from the Competition and Markets Authority that , where specify standard have be meet with regard to public space , council would then be mandate to adopt those public space . it be time for minister to come off the fence and implement those recommendation , for the benefit of my constituent on the old Kodak site and all those who be currently lock into this " fleecehold " model of housing . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . order , that Gareth Thomas , Bill Esterson , Yvonne Fovargue , Sir Stephen Timms , Matt Rodda , Anna McMorrin , Dame Diana Johnson , Clive Efford , Ruth Cadbury , Matt Western , Mr Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi and Andy Slaughter present the Bill . Gareth Thomas accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June , and to be print ( Bill 209 ) . Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill : Programme ( no . 3 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill for the purpose of supplement the order of 17 May 2023 ( Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill : Programme ) as vary by the Order of 20 November 2023 ( Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill : Programme ( no . 2 ) ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after their commencement . ( 2 ) the Lords Amendments shall be consider in the following order : Lords Amendments 9 , 12 , 13 , 19 , 26 , 27 , 28 , 31 , 32 , 38 , 104 , 1 to 8 , 10 , 11 , 14 to 18 , 20 to 25 , 29 , 30 , 33 to 37 , 39 to 103 and 105 to 148 . subsequent stage ( 3 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 4 ) the proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill consideration of Lords amendment I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that financial privilege be engage by Lords amendment 35 , 36 , 42 , 112 , 117 , 128 and 132 to 134 . if those Lords amendment be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . clause 19 - power to impose conduct requirement I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 9 . with this it will be convenient to discuss : lord amendment 12 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 13 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 19 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 26 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 27 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 28 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 31 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 32 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 38 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 104 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 1 to 8 , 10 , 11 , 14 to 18 , 20 to 25 , 29 to 30 , 33 to 37 , 39 to 103 and 105 to 148 . it be a pleasure to bring this groundbreake Bill back to the House . it will drive innovation and deliver well outcome for consumer across the UK by address barrier to competition in digital market and tackle consumer rip - off . we believe it strike the right balance , not deter investment from big tech while encourage investment from challenger tech . I thank Members of both Houses for their careful scrutiny and I commend the collaborative cross - party approach take during the Bill ' s passage to date . I will start with the amendment that the Government make in the other place . they add vital new provision to the Bill and I hope hon . member will agree to they . part 1 of the Bill establish a new pro - competition regime for digital market , which will be oversee and enforce by the Competition and Markets Authority ' s digital market unit . follow engagement with member in the other place , we have bolster transparency provision to require the CMA to publish more of the notice provide to firm designate with strategic market status , or SMS . all interested party will now be able to access the information contain in those notice , ensure that there be great clarity on the DMU ' s decision relate to SMS designation , conduct requirement and pro - competition intervention . a number of hon . member have call for provision address asymmetry of information to be introduce to the Bill , so we hope this change will be welcome . on part 2 of the Bill , which deal with wide competition reform , hon . member will recall that on Report the Government add a provision on litigation funding , whose purpose be to restore the previously hold understanding of the status of litigation fund agreement under the Competition Act 1998 . those provision be important in provide a route to justice for group with limited resource — for example , our sub - postmaster . that step be take in response to an early Supreme Court judgment that have make litigation funding agreement unenforceable . the Government have since act by introduce the Litigation Funding Agreements ( Enforceability ) Bill , which will deliver on our commitment to address the impact of that judgment in all type of proceeding . consequently , the provision in this Bill have be remove , as they be no long require . we also introduce new measure to part 2 to address concern about the potential ownership of UK newspaper and news magazine by foreign state , as we hear very recently from the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport . the Government know that we can not overstate the importance of those publication to our democracy and have therefore take decisive action to preserve the freedom of the press . by establish a new regime within the Enterprise Act 2002 , the Bill will prevent foreign state from have ownership of , or control or influence over , a UK newspaper or news magazine . the Government be extremely grateful for the support offer by member of both Houses in the development of these new measure . in particular , we thank Baroness Stowell of Beeston and Lord Forsyth of Drumlean for their engagement , and my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , who first secure a debate on the issue in January . part 3 and 4 make important update and improvement to UK consumer law . have consult on a series of reform at the end of last year , the Government amend the Bill in the other place to introduce new measure that address fake review and drip pricing . many hon . member call for the Government to address those harm through the Bill , and I be pleased to say that we have be able to do so , follow our public consultation . we have also make amendment to far strengthen the ability of public body to enforce consumer law . we do so by extend so - call take - down power to a wide range of enforcer . there have be a healthy debate in both Houses about the measure in the Bill aim at tackle subscription trap . we listen carefully to the concern express in the other place about the potential impact of those measure on charity and their ability to claim gift aid . in response , the Government amend the Bill to enable the Treasury to update gift aid rule . that mitigate any concern about the Bill ' s impact on charity . we be grateful to Lord Mendoza for highlight the issue and for his engagement . we also make a series of amendment to provide great assurance and clarity for business about the new subscription measure , include address concern about exit contract , cancellation , reminder notice and cool - off period . I hope that hon . member agree that the amendment improve the Bill . the Liberal Democrats welcome the fact that the Government be finally act on the CMA ' s recommendation , but will the Government support amendment 104 , which be back by the Liberal Democrats ? it be about impose requirement on secondary ticket site . often , people purchase ticket from the site do so at huge mark - up on the face value of the ticket , and the ticket in question do not actually exist . the amendment would address those issue , reduce the risk of fraud by require proof of purchase . do the Minister agree that we must do everything we can to ensure that this legislation be as robust as possible , to crack down on this type of fraud ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention and for the amendment , which I will speak to in a moment . the Government have agree to undertake a review of both primary and secondary market , and I will deal with those issue later in my remark . [ interruption . ] I hear from the shadow Front - Bench spokespeople , but I think that be something that Labour propose in early amendment , so obviously they have change their position on that issue — not for the first time . finally , the Government make a number of minor amendment to the Bill in the other place . the majority be tidy - up measure , or otherwise small tweak to the Bill , to ensure that it achieve its policy intent as effectively as possible . I will now set out the Government ' s position on the 11 non - Government amendment that be make to the Bill in the other place . the majority of the amendment seek to reverse or alter amendment make to the digital market part of the Bill on Report in this House . there be three aim behind the Government ' s package of amendment on Report in the Commons : first , to provide great clarity to party interact with the regime ; secondly , to strengthen the regime ' s safeguard for the extensive new regulatory power ; and thirdly , to enhance the accountability of the regulator . the Government table the amendment follow careful consideration of the view express by hon . member across the House . we remain convinced that our amendment strike the right balance between the accountability of the CMA ' s regulatory decision and the flexibility to allow for targeted and proportionate action that tackle the unique competition challenge in digital market . my hon . friend be right that the amendment that be agree on Report in this House strike the right balance , and I be afraid that on this occasion I wholly disagree with the way their lordship characterise the matter in their debate . we be not argue for a wholesale replication of the telecom regime ; we be simply make sure that , particularly with regard to penalty , which will be pretty onerous — and rightly so — there be proper discretion to allow a review tribunal and review court to consider the matter carefully , in a way that balance out the need for rigour and for temper when it come to the power of the regulator . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his intervention and his early engagement , when he make his position on that point clear . he be right to say that penalty can be significant — up to 10 % of global turnover — so it be fair that we allow organisation to challenge penalty on the merit of the case , but maintain the ability to impose pro - competition intervention and conduct requirement on platform . the amendment make in the other place risk undermine that careful balance . for example , amendment to revert the appeal standard for fine to judicial review principle , to which my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) refer , would remove a valuable safeguard on the significant new power that the Bill give the CMA , as would the removal of the requirement on the CMA to act proportionately . meanwhile , amendment to the countervail benefit exemption risk make the exemption less clear for stakeholder . consequently , the Government have table a motion to disagree with those amendment . the point about a " proportionate " response be relevant . in the original drafting of the Bill , the word use be " appropriate . " the Government change that to " proportionate " on Report in this House , and the Lords have seek to reverse that change . what do the Minister think be disproportionate , if you like , about the word " appropriate " ? what about it strike the wrong balance ? minister keep say that they think thing strike the right balance , but they never really explain why . we have engage significantly , throughout the Bill ' s passage and before it be introduce , with large tech and challenger tech . our understanding be that all those cohort be happy with where the Bill be today . certainly , during that engagement , concern be raise about the term " appropriate , " but the clear position that we express to those who raise that concern be , " of course , there be a requirement on the CMA to act proportionately . " put that in the Bill do not undermine its basic principle . in fact , we understand from the situation in the European Court of Human Rights , and the property right emanating from it , that all those thing be bake in anyway , so we do not feel that the wording weaken the legislation at all , but it do strike the right balance between those two different court . it be clearly important that we understand what " proportionate " mean in this context . be the Government ' s position that proportionality imply that there be more for the CMA to think about than just how effectively the imposition of a conduct requirement would fulfil the CMA ' s requirement ? if so , what can the Government do to make that clear , so that court and tribunal that consider such case do not fill in the gap themselves ? the word " appropriate " and " proportionate " could be interpret quite widely if the Government be not clear about what they mean by they . my right hon . and learn Friend will know from his legal background that the term " proportionate " be well establish in law . of course , the court play an important part here . we do not prescribe everything in our legislation ; there be quite rightly the opportunity for people to challenge certain decision by the CMA . clearly , we be try to reduce the ability of large tech to prevent investment from small tech . that be the balance that we be strike , but we do not want to discourage investment from big tech , so the requirement for the CMA to act proportionately be reasonable . the Minister suggest that stakeholder be now satisfied with the Bill . I can tell he that there be concern about the change from " appropriate " to " proportionate . " the fear be that it will enable the court to look more broadly , and will allow more scope for challenge than be intend when the term " appropriate " be use . can he confirm that that be not the Government ' s intention ? it be not our intention . our intention be to strike a balance . as I have say , the court ' approach to proportionality be set out by the Supreme Court in Bank Mellat v . her Majesty ' s Treasury ( no . 2 ) , when the Court describe the element to be consider , include , most notably , " whether a less intrusive measure could have be use " and whether there be a fair balance between the intend objective of the measure and the effect on the business that the measure apply to . that be a sensible balance to strike . of course , some stakeholder want to go far in certain direction , while other do not want we to go as far , and we be try to strike that balance . we welcome big tech ' s investment in the UK , but we also welcome investment by challenger tech , and through this groundbreaking Bill — the only one of its kind in the world — we be strike that balance . we have listen carefully to argument relate to the Secretary of State ' s approval of CMA guidance . lord amendment 38 , which be table by Lord Lansley , add a timeline for the Secretary of State approve CMA guidance relate to the new regime . in response , we have table amendment ( a ) in lieu , which would achieve a similar effect by introduce a statutory 30 - work - day timeline for the Secretary of State to approve the necessary guidance . we believe that that address concern about the ability of the digital market regime to start tackle competition problem without delay . we hope that hon . member will support amendment ( a ) . on secondary ticketing , a non - Government amendment — to which the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) refer — be make in the other place to the consumer part of the Bill . Amendment 104 , which be table by Lord Moynihan , seek to introduce additional regulatory requirement on ticket resale site . those requirement would cover proof of purchase , ticket limit and the visibility of certain require information , such as the face value of a ticket . both Lord Moynihan and the hon . member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) have speak passionately on that topic during proceeding on the Bill . we be hugely grateful for their work highlight the malpractice in the resale market . to be clear , the Government be absolutely committed to protect consumer from fraudulent activity in the secondary ticketing market . however , it be our view that protection for consumer be already provide by exist consumer law . the law impose specific information requirement in relation to secondary ticketing that go above and beyond those in general consumer law . that include the requirement for all reseller — be they trader or consumer — and secondary ticketing platform to inform a buyer about the face value of a ticket and the restriction on its use . the Government ' s position be therefore that the secondary ticketing market be already suitably regulate . that say , we recognise the strength of feeling on this matter , which have be express by member of the other place and in certain quarter of this House , so we commit today to undertake a review of ticket practice and how they impact on consumer . the review will look at both primary and secondary market — in other word , seller and reseller . we believe it important to consider both market together . I be very grateful to the Minister for give way . I know that we have debate this point before , and I will discuss it far in my contribution , but I make the point again that there may be legislation , but it be not work . there have be only two prosecution in all the time since the Consumer Rights Act 2015 be pass . if further legislation be not need , why do we bring in legislation to protect ticket for the Olympics ? it be not right to say that there have be only two prosecution — rise — I will just finish this answer . there have be two sentence . two people get a £ 6 . 1 million fine . there be four more successful prosecution in Leeds Crown court only very recently , and sentence be due to be impose on those individual . the hon . Lady raise important point , and do great work on the all - party parliamentary group , and I will always listen to she . we be undertake a review look at primary and secondary market , and she will have every chance to give her input to that review , just as anybody else will . I look forward to hear her representation . the Government claim that they be do enough , but that be just not the case . here be an example for the Minister : on secondary ticketing site , three ticket for the Taylor Swift show on 21 June be go for £ 72 , 000 . they have a face value of £ 170 each . how be the market work ? I agree that some of the example be shocking . the key question be what measure we will put in place to address they . Ireland , for example , completely ban secondary sale , yet the price see on the internet be equivalent to what the hon . Lady describe , so there be no perfect solution that have already be try . however , we be very happy to look at the evidence , look at what might be do , and do something that be effective , rather than crowd - pleasing . that be what we be commit to do . the reality be that some organiser be simply much more successful than other at prevent large - scale unauthorised resale . the ticket market be clearly evolve rapidly . our review will therefore consider evidence from business and platform operate in ticketing and resale market , as well as venue , artist , enforcer and consumer . the Government intend the review to take place over nine month , after which we will consider any appropriate further action . [ hon . member : " you win ' t be there . " ] member who be comment from a sedentary position should beware of overconfidence . I very much hope that hon . member will support the Government ' s position today . I especially hope that member in both Houses will note our movement in two important area : the Secretary of State ' s approval of CMA guidance for the new digital market regime , and secondary ticketing . these change be consider and balance , and I urge member in the other place to consider their position on the other amendment that our motion today seek to reject . throughout the Bill ' s passage , the Government have listen carefully to the argument present , and in response , we have make a series of significant change where we recognise that improvement could be make . it be important that we now reach full consensus on the Bill ' s final form , so that it reach the statute book without further delay . first , I pay tribute to my much - love neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , who lead for Labour during the last round of proceeding on the Bill , and to my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) , who lead for we when the Bill be introduce . might I say a few word about the Minister ? I do love the Minister . member sit on the Government back Benches will not have be able to see the little wry smile play on his face as he make his speech . unfortunately , Hansard be not able to record that element of the way he present his case . I will let the House into a secret : there be two version of the Minister , or rather the Member . there be the Back - Bench Member , who I passionately agree with on nearly everything , and then there be the Government Minister , who have the Back - Bench Member sit inside he somewhere , but have manage to lose he while take on corporate and shared responsibility on the Government Front Benches . I bet that if he be in the Parliament that follow the next general election , and we debate these matter all over again , he would be articulate what I be about to say almost word for word , but today , he have articulate the Government position . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? of course I will , to the right hon . gentleman — another gentleman for whom I have a great deal of respect , and with whom I occasionally disagree . I just wonder whether the transformation that the hon . Gentleman describe , which occur when somebody move from the Back Benches to the Front Bench , apply equally to the Opposition and the Government . the right hon . Gentleman know more about bob between the Back Benches and the Front Bench than most member of Parliament in history , I think . it be obviously a problem ; I do believe in share responsibility of Government — we want government to act as a single body , and not irresponsibly — so I understand , but none the less , it be perfectly appropriate to tease the Minister when he have such a wry smile on his lip . this Bill be a classic instance of how the Tory chaos of the past few year have be bad for Britain . it be long overdue , as the Minister say : it start in the Commons more than a year ago , on 25 April 2023 , and it be so delayed that the carry - over motion have to be carry over . I can not remember that happen for many year , but the Government have to do it last week . the Bill use to strike the right balance between the need of different part of the market , but the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) be absolutely right to say that many stakeholder be certainly not happy with where the Government have land . intense lobbying of Downing Street from some part of the market have lead to the Government table amendment that would fatally undermine the Bill ' s purpose and make it impossible for the CMA to do the job that we want it to do , namely , ensure fair competition in digital market in the interest of consumer , investor and wide society . I remind member of what the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) have say — it be good to see he in his place . he say that this be " a market that be vulnerable — and , some would say , prone — to monopolistic abuse of market power . " — [ Official Report , 20 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 58 . ] during the first Second reading debate on 17 May last year , the Minister say that " competition must work hand in hand with consumer protection . " — [ Official Report , 17 May 2023 ; Vol . 732 , c . 880 . ] that be spot on , so why ruin the Bill ? this be the nub of the matter . the hon . member for Meriden ( Saqib Bhatti ) say on Report that " a small number of firm exert immense control across strategically critical service online because the unique characteristic of digital market , such as network effect and datum consolidation , make they prone to tip in favour of a few firm . " — [ Official Report , 20 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 51 . ] again , he be absolutely right , but what the Government be do today help to tip the legislation back in favour of those few firm . it be a mistake . they pretend otherwise — the Minister have say that the amendment will not make any difference . in that case , why table they ? in an attempt to save the Government from themselves , the Lords have try to return the Bill to its original shape with four set of amendment , which I will now go through . the first set , Lords amendment 9 and 19 , deal with proportionality . the original Government version of the Bill say that the CMA ' s conduct in regulate digital market have to be " appropriate " . the Government then change that to " proportionate " . lord amendment 9 would change it back to " appropriate " . I believe that the Government version would , in effect , render any challenge to the CMA ' s conduct a test of the merit , rather than a judicial review , and provide big tech firm with limitless legal budget with even more scope to tie the CMA up in lengthy legal wrangling . Jarndyce v . Jarndyce in the Court of Chancery would have nothing on the CMA in the High Court . the Government seem to be deliberately clip the wing of the cma , and Labour agree with their lordship that in this area , the Bill should be return to its original form . how would a tribunal consider the appropriateness of a cma intervention without consider the detail and merit of it ? the point be that either the change be necessary because a new and different measure be be adopt by the Government , in which case it be a low threshold and therefore inappropriate , or the change make no difference whatsoever , in which case it be unnecessary . the normal standard for decide whether an amendment be appropriate would lead we to ask , " be it necessary , or do it provide a good remedy ? " I do not think that either be the case , which be why Labour do not support the Government ' s wording . the second set of amendment , Lords amendment 12 and 13 , deal with countervail benefit . just to prove that Labour Members speak from the Dispatch Box be very consistent with one another , my next sentence be effectively say by my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd in a previous debate : the countervail benefit exemption allow the Competition and Markets Authority to close an investigation of a breach of a conduct requirement if a firm can demonstrate that its anti - competitive conduct produce benefit that outweigh the harm and be therefore indispensable . on Report in the Commons , the Government significantly reduce the threshold for that exemption , remove the word " indispensable " and merely require that " those benefit could not be realise without the conduct " . it sound the same , but it be different — subtly but importantly different . the Lords amendment would remove that paragraph and alter the next line so that it read " the conduct be indispensable and proportionate to the realisation of those benefit " . I will make two point in this area . first , as I think everybody accept , the " indispensable " standard be a well - understand concept in UK competition law : it be use in the Competition Act 1998 , which I do not believe to be as outmoded as some member have suggest . secondly , the court would interpret Parliament ' s deliberate move away from an exist , well - understand standard as intend to create a new , low threshold , which again will inevitably allow the big tech firm great scope to launch complex legal challenge . if the Government really do not see any distinction between the two threshold , the most obvious compromise would be to reinstate the word " indispensable " alongside the Bill ' s new wording and to clarify , today at the Dispatch Box and in the Bill ' s explanatory note , that the " indispensable " standard and the new form of word insert by the Government have an identical meaning . otherwise , there be a risk that the court will seek to explore far whether Parliament have deliberately create a new threshold and standard . I simply say to the Minister that I remember , when he be on the Back Benches and we have lengthy discussion about the power of Companies House , that he be very keen on make sure that Companies House have the power it need to do proper investigation . he regularly make the point that lot of people have very deep legal pocket , and that do not necessarily mean that the consumer always win out . I would argue that it be the same in this case . lord amendment 26 to 28 to clause 89 and Lords amendment 31 and 32 to clause 103 relate to appeal . the Bill originally have judicial review as the appeal standard for all cma decision under part 1 , but in the Commons the Government move to merit appeal for penalty decision . I accept that this be only about penalty decision , but I none the less believe that it be dangerous because , while the new regime be intend to be collaborative , it be ultimately the threat of fine that will incentivise big tech firm to comply with the CMA ' s decision . if there be no prospect of a fine , whether large or small , those large tech firm may well decide to be less collaborative . there be the even great danger that merit appeal on penalty decision bleed back across the Bill into regulatory decision , give big tech firm great scope to frustrate and challenge the CMA ' s decision . while it be correct that the court be generally able to distinguish between judicial review and merit element of appeal — that point have be make in previous debate by the former Attorney General , the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) — it do not eliminate the concern about the two bleed into each other , especially if the two stream take place together in the same case . if the Government be unable to reinstate judicial review appeal across part 1 , as we would prefer , a clarificatory amendment should be insert in the Bill to provide certainty that appeal on penalty can not impact on other regulatory decision to eliminate scope for speculative challenge . it be worth bear in mind that the chief executive of the CMA have make it clear that the authority want the judicial review standard to apply . she welcome effective judicial scrutiny of its decision , but say : " we think that the JR standard achieve that . " she go on to say that her experience of merit appeal be that they result in " very protract litigation " , make it " a lot hard to reach constructive , collaborative outcome " , because " all eye be on that litigation process . " – – [ Official Report , Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Public Bill Committee , 13 June 2023 ; c . 7 , 8 , q4 . ] let I come on to the matter of ticket touting , and Lords amendment 104 . I start by thank Lord Moynihan — a conservative peer , of course — for table this amendment and for his significant work across many year . when I have not agree with every sentence from my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) on this subject , I have sometimes feel the scratch on my back from her very elegant fingernail , but she have also do enormous work , and I think she be much to be praise for it . there be many other in the House of whom that be true as well , include all those sit next to she on the back row , who I be sure will catch your eye later , Mr Deputy Speaker . I start from a very simple principle : the value of a ticket — whether for the rugby , the football or a gig at the O2 — be create by the artist , the promoter and , above all , the fan . yes , the secondary ticketing market can help all three , because sometimes people buy more ticket than they need or be unable to attend for whatever reason , but the abuse of the secondary market can lead to artist , promoter and fan all lose out , and abuse be rife . I will take an example of a case that have already be through the court . it be that of Lynda Chenery , Mark Woods , Maria Chenery - Woods and Paul Douglas , who buy and resold concert ticket worth £ 6 . 5 million . they buy they on primary site , include Ticketmaster , before resell they on secondary ticketing platform , such as Viagogo , at inflated price . they use endless trick , include send customer rip envelope to imply that the ticket have be lose in transit or use fraud juice , which involve the use of Tipp - Ex correct fluid or more sophisticated digital method , to amend ticket . they hold their customer in open derision . have scamme one person into pay £ 535 for a ticket for the Harry Potter west end show , they refer to he in an email as " another idiot " . these people be despicable parasite preying on fan , and we need to go far far to address this issue . this practice price many fan out of the market and add no value whatsoever to the creative process , at a time when creator be in desperate need of make a living out of their craft . in 2016 , one ticket for Adele at the O2 arena in London be list on getmein for £ 24 , 840 , which be 290 time the face value of the ticket . nobody in the Rhondda would be to afford such a ticket . incidentally , Wimbledon face exactly the same set of problem . Viagogo be today sell two ticket for Pink at the Millennium stadium in Cardiff on 11 June for £ 498 each . I think the fan could perfectly legitimately start shout : " what about we ? what about all the plan that end in disaster ? " it be not obvious what the original price be for those ticket . on Viagogo , people can get one ticket for Peter Kay at the O2 on 4 May for £ 302 , or ticket for " the Book of Mormon " — it have be in the theatre for several year , and be a wonderful , hilarious show — on 4 May at £ 420 each . in a way , the one that upset I the most be that ticket for the ballet " the Winter ' s Tale " at the Royal Opera House on 3 May — a Friday night — be £ 1 , 006 each , but people can buy those ticket from the Royal Opera House for £ 140 , because there be taxpayer involvement in support the Royal Opera House . we could say the same of StubHub , on which two stand ticket for Doja Cat in Glasgow on 11 June with a face value of £ 162 be sell at £ 1 , 002 . this be a pernicious industry . it be parasitical , it do nothing for the creative industry in this country and we must tackle it . will my hon . friend give way ? I feel the fingernail . I wait until my hon . friend get to the end of all those disgraceful , abhorrent example . will he clarify for I a fallacy that the tout often put around about I and my hon . friend — they will say the same about he ? they say that we want to stop people be able to resell their ticket when they can not go — they have buy they in good faith and genuinely can not go . will he clarify that that be not what any of we seek to do ? I of course want people to be able to resell their ticket , but at face value . do he agree ? I completely agree , and that be Labour party policy . I be use to fallacy be write about I , and I have see many write about my hon . friend as well . I be sure we will all get over it . incidentally , that be why , as I shall come on to say later , it be very important that we have a free press that be able to say what it want , free from the intervention of state owner from other country . my hon . friend be absolutely right . of course , it be perfectly legitimate for somebody who have buy a couple of ticket for Saturday night and who suddenly find that they be ill , that they have to go to a family engagement or that they have buy ticket for the wrong night to be able to sell they on at face value , or perhaps for a little bit more simply to cover the cost of administration and thing like that . however , this be a market that be not work . it be an example of market failure , not an example of market success . rise — I feel more fingernail . my fingernail be nothing like as bad . do my hon . friend agree that the problem be actually bad than just the price he quote , of which he give some really good and powerful example , because of the selling of ticket that do not actually exist — fraudulent ticket ? I have hear from a number of venue about the selling of ticket that should go to carer or young people . People be turn up at event such as those at the O2 and other venue with these ticket and be turn away , often when they have travel to London and pay for hotel . so there be all the disappointment and the financial loss of that on top of the ticket price . I completely agree , and my hon . friend be absolutely right . there be terrible instance of all sort of different scam , and — this be the honest truth — remarkably few prosecution . whether the number be two , four or five , it should be in the hundred . [ interruption . ] six — half a dozen — great ! the truth be that we all know instance from our constituency of people who have face precisely these problem . I have have constituent say to I , " I feel too embarrassed to own up to have buy these ticket . " I remember go past the Millennium stadium in Cardiff , or Arms Park in the old day , and we all despise the ticket tout , just as we do outside a Kate Bush concert or whatever . sometimes , however , we be just so desperate that we buy the ticket , and they of course turn out to be fraudulent or non - existent , or they be allocate to specific kind of people that do not include we . all those point be worth make , and I would add this one : all local authority have trading standard office but many be now so deplete because of the state of local government finance that it be very difficult for anybody to get proper recompense and a deal . the Lords amendment — [ interruption . ] I be sorry , I be not sure whether the parliamentary Private Secretary , the hon . member for Rother Valley ( Alexander Stafford ) , be seek to intervene . [ interruption . ] indeed , he be not allow to , poor thing ; he be silence . Lords amendment 104 do the bare minimum . it would require facility to accept posting only if they provide evidence of purchase from the primary market , it would limit the resale of more ticket than a single customer can buy on the primary market , and it would require clear information on the face value and trader ' s business name and address on the first page of a secondary ticketing facility . that be simply not see on any of these site today . if the Conservative Government refuse to act , Labour will . we will bring these measure in and go far , restrict the resale of ticket at more than a small set percentage over the price the original purchaser pay , include fee . fan have be wait for far too long . a Labour Government would end the pernicious and predatory ticket touting and put fan back at the heart of music , cultural and sporting event , where they belong . and if I might just say so , the idea of a review — it be your idea . well , we have move on and it be about time the Government move on — in fact I look forward to the day when the Minister move on from Government Benches to here on the Opposition Benches . the idea of a review at the dog end of a Parliament and at the end of the regime be absolutely pathetic , and I be glad the Minister be laugh at himself for even present the suggestion today . let I end with an area of agreement . we be glad that the Government , under pressure , table Lords amendment 117 on merger involve newspaper enterprise and foreign power along the line of measure that we and other , include a large number of conservative mp and peer , have call for . of course the UK must remain an open economy ; we welcome foreign investment in many sector in the UK . but we agree that in this limited area , the state ownership of UK newspaper and medium company must be a matter for concern , which be why we support the Lords amendment . we will need to make sure in future year that it be adequate to the situation we find , not least bear in mind many of the comment make early by member on both side of the House regard the rather fluid world we be move into , where newspaper be a rather outdate concept and social medium and other form of online medium be far more significant . we will keep that under review , therefore , but we welcome the amendment the Government have table . this long - delay Bill could go forward with strong , unanimous support if the Government abandon their tilt towards the few potentially monopolistic company and set aside their objection to the Lords amendment . those objection be either completely otiose or they be dangerous . the Minister say they make no difference , I say they do , but on either ground they should go , so we support their lordship in their amendment . may I start by say that this be and still be a good bill ? it do an enormous number of very important thing and I be glad to see that it have broad acceptance and agreement on both side of the House , although with some minor point of disagreement . it contain many of the measure that I personally call for in my government - commission review of competition policy call " power to the people " a little while ago , and it definitely update and make some much - need change to our competition and consumer law . however , I share some of the concern raise today about the Government ' s opposition to four of the amendment that have come back from the Lords . I do not have worry about the Lords amendment themselves because , as we have just hear from the Opposition Front - Bench spokesperson the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , they mainly seek to restore the effect of clause that be in the Bill when it originally come to this House . what worry I be that the wrong people be clap . the change that the Government have make , in many case by seek to resist Lords amendment , seem to many people to be on the side of the big tech firm rather than on the side of consumer , of sharp competition , of more consumer choice and of stand up for the man and woman in the street . I therefore earnestly hope that the Minister will be able to channel his historical zeal for these thing in his closing remark and reassure I , and I be sure other as well , that that be not the Government ' s intention and that they remain committed to those thing — that the fire still burn brightly in his eye to make they happen . I start by say that the Government have already do some of that work with amendment ( a ) in lieu of Lords amendment 38 — they have replace the Lansley amendment with a version of their own — deal with the amount of time that the Secretary of State can take in deal with guidance put forward by the CMA to make sure it be not unduly delay . that be extremely welcome and a very good measure , and I enthusiastically support it . however , we have already hear about two other thing in particular . one be the role of judicial review in deal with penalty . I share the concern that in move away from a judicial review standard for penalty to a full merit review we may get bleed - across — that clever lawyer work for big tech firm may effectively be able to broaden the scope through clever use of legal technique to prolong their attempt to walk backwards slowly and prevent justice from be do . I therefore devoutly hope that my good friend the Minister will be able to clarify that he expect to be able to show to we — either from the Dispatch Box now , or in guidance or another kind of clarification in due course — that it will not be possible for bleed - across to happen and he will be able to take any step that may be need . I be very happy to make that commitment . we believe the Bill draw a clear distinction between infringement decision and penalty decision . after take legal advice on this matter and look at previous competition case law consider similar issue , the Government consider that neither the Competition Appeal Tribunal nor the high court will have any trouble make that distinction for digital market appeal . we have clarify that in the explanatory note , which I hope provide reassurance that there be little risk of bleed - back from the merit appeal standard for penalty appeal to appeal on other type of decision . I thank the Minister for that intervention and , embolden by my success so far in get he to front up , I move on to my second point , which have similar concern around it : the issue of countervail benefit . we have hear from the Opposition spokesman about that , so I will not go through it all again , but it would be enormously helpful if , either now in a further intervention or in his closing remark , the Minister could be clear about the new wording , which we have already hear about in his speech . I hope he will make it clear — again , either through clarification now or in guidance — that it be not intend to be in any way a low standard than what we have before when this Bill first come to the House , and that it be either the same or tough . I be pause just briefly to see whether he want to intervene . rise — he do , which be marvellous . the revise wording do not change the effect of the clause . strategic market status firm will still have to prove that there be no other reasonable and practicable way to achieve the same benefit for consumer with less competitive effect . we be make marvellous progress and end up with change be confirm on the Floor of the House in a way I do not think I have see before , so let we keep go . rise — I be sure this will be an equally constructive intervention , of course . would it not be even more helpful if the Minister be to say he would change the explanatory memorandum as well ? I be sure the Minister will grab that opportunity in his closing remark , if he so wish . at least he have take the opportunity to stand up and give we public reassurance on the record about the standard that be intend . it be clear that it be no low than it originally be , which be an important change . rise — and again . the shadow Minister and I be have this debate vicariously , but I just note that the wording in the explanatory note have not change . I be on a roll here . the final of the four issue in question be proportionality . we have have the debate already , so I do not propose to repeat the concern , but it would be helpful if the Minister , either now or in his closing remark , clarify that the new and amend standard that be to be apply be no low . I think he say something to that effect early to the former Attorney General , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , but it would be helpful just to nail that one down and drive the nail home , if the Minister can . it be important for everybody to understand whether that new standard be any low at all ; it should be the same or high . indicate assent . the Minister be nod , but I do not know whether he intend to intervene again . indicate dissent . we will have to preserve our soul in patience for the Minister ' s closing remark . I will declare victory very shortly . it have be a helpful set of intervention , and I thank he for that . my final point be not relate to these Lords amendment , but to a commitment that the Minister make at the Dispatch Box on Report in response to an amendment on well regulation that I have table with the support of a great number of parliamentary colleague . he make a commitment that a set of conclusion , match a set of standard whose word he and I have agree in advance , would be in place before the Bill receive Royal Assent . clearly we be get close to that date — I hope very close — and I understand that a Government White Paper may be in the offing , but I be not sure whether that will arrive before Royal Assent . my point be intend not to delay Royal Assent , but to bring forward the White Paper or whatever document the Government may be think of . base on conversation I have have so far , I be also concerned that not all the commitment the Minister make from the Dispatch Box may be in that White Paper . I therefore urge he to make sure that between now and Royal Assent , he work assiduously with his fellow Ministers to make sure they have get the memo that should go round after he make those commitment . Scottish National party member continue to support this Bill , and we support each of the Lords amendment . notwithstanding the rather dizzying pinball rattle of intervention that go on between the Minister , the shadow Minister and the hon . member for Weston - super - Mare ( John Penrose ) , I will be a bit of a traditionalist stick - in - the - mud and stick to the wording in the amendment and the Bill , no matter what reference might be make subsequently to the ghost of debate past in Hansard . on Lords amendment 9 and " proportionate " versus " appropriate " , it might seem to people outside this Chamber that we be dance on a pinhead , but such distinction matter . it be important that decision of the Competition and Markets Authority should be allow to stand wherever they deserve to , but that mean not allow unnecessary wriggle room to creep in for entity with deep pocket to challenge decision not on the basis of principle , but on the ground of what those entity consider proportionate . we consider that replace the word " proportionate " be appropriate in this case , and we support the Lords amendment on that basis . lord amendment 13 reinsert the word " indispensable " . as the shadow Minister say , that term be well understand in competition law , but it also happen to be proportionate and appropriate in this case . it be entirely possible to envisage anti - competitive behaviour that can bring about consumer benefit either as a direct or indirect consequence , but we be clear that any benefit that arise should be such that they can not be do without or forgone and that the test should be set accordingly . with Lords amendment 26 , 28 , 31 and 32 , we have believe throughout the Bill ' s passage that the judicial review level be the appropriate appeal standard , rather than a full merit review . that be why we support those Lords amendment . finally , amendment 104 would introduce new requirement on secondary ticketing . we have hear in a number of intervention about the frankly astronomical , larcenous , almost confiscatory charge that be put on some ticket for certain event in the secondary market . it be important to note that it be not just about the price of the ticket ; a considerable set of other economic choice go on around the purchasing of a ticket , include travel to and from the gig , the other ticket that people be buy , accommodation and food and drink . it be a huge financial and emotional investment for many family to go to some of those event , whether they be the high profile event or something just of particular interest to that family or friendship group . we should be do our utmost to provide the good protection for people who seek to achieve these experience when spend their hard - earn money . the Minister have announce a review of secondary ticketing to report in nine month ' time . I will not be as churlish as the shadow Minister ; I can muster at least two cheer for that , although the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) be right that this Government be unlikely to be in place to carry through the recommendation if they report on a nine - month timescale . the House should be in doubt that the course of action before we today that could have the great impact on the secondary ticket market would be to pass the modest , reasonable recommendation before we in Lords amendment 104 . I will draw my remark to a close . I hope that this be the last time we see this Bill come through this Chamber . as I say , we support the Bill , but it be not beyond improvement , even at this late stage . in our view , it could certainly be improve , be the Government simply to do the right thing and accept the amendment before we today . I will speak briefly on the question that I raise early in the debate about the change of language from " appropriate " to " proportionate " and follow on from the remark of my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( John Penrose ) . on one level , what the Minister be say now — similar to what the Minister in the House of Lords , Lord Camrose , say in the debate there — be that proportionality be implicit in the law anyway and that the right an organisation would have under article 1 of the european convention on human right would apply anyway . minister be say that bring this language into the Bill be therefore a tidying - up exercise that re - emphasise right that people already have . on another level , Ministers be also say that this change create a well balance , which mean that there will be some change in how thing work . it be important at this point that the House be clear about what be intend with this change . there be a concern that the change effectively open up a full merit appeal basis , which we have be keen to avoid do in all the debate on this Bill as it have go through both Houses . the Government have rightly resist call from big tech company to bring that in , because it be a recipe for multiple and lengthy litigation , just as with every single measure of tech regulation that exist as a whole . that be not the intention . let we say that a company may be guilty of overcharge in an app store , but the cost to the consumer be relatively low . would an intervention from the CMA be proportionate ? overcharge in the mobile app market may exist , but ultimately company be happy to pay it and it be a relatively small charge . would a big intervention by the CMA be a proportionate response ? there be so many compete priority , and often the individual consumer cost of some of these measure would be low , but there be the business significance of a company self - preference a service to the exclusion of other company from the market . the company might say , " there be no particular consumer detriment to this , because the price be relatively low " , but it drive strategic market status . we have already see in the European Union with the Digital Markets Act that the company be challenge the designation of strategic market status , and they be look for ground to challenge at every opportunity , and we must expect that they will do the same thing here as well . that be why we should be clear that we be clear about what we mean . my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare invite the Minister to say that effectively , in term of enforcement and how the court should interpret it , the change should not make any difference from the original drafting . he invite the Minister to say that we should not be concern that move from " appropriate " to " proportionate " be move from say that the regulator should do what be within its right to do — it be appropriate because it have the power to do it and it have make an intervention base on that power — to say , " even if it be appropriate for it to do it , it should not have do it , because it be disproportionate . " what would the ground for that disproportionality be ? it be really important that the guidance to the legislation make clear what we should expect on how the CMA can determine to find what it believe be proportionate response , with that not be easy to dismiss on the ground that the cost to consumer may be relatively low or the impact limit to a certain area of business . my hon . friend be , as ever , make a good case . as he know , I agree with he about the need for the Government to be clear about what these term really mean . one thing that we be not talk about today but which be link to the question of definition be what we mean by " consumer benefit " . do he agree that there may be a difference between benefit to the current consumer and a benefit to the future consumer and that we should be clear in the Bill , should we not , that " consumer benefit " include future consumer as well as current one ? my right hon . and learn Friend make an important point . we could have a digital service provide for free , self - preference by a big company , offer a new service to its customer — how could there be a consumer detriment in that ? but a consequence of that could be constriction of the market and the driving out of other business . the mobile mapping market be a really good example : Google Maps and Apple Maps totally dominate a market that use to have multiple compete company in it . now it do not , and there could be future consumer detriment in that . that be why it be important that this be an ex - ante regime , which anticipate not just the detriment that may exist now , but future consequence . that be such an important principle for digital market , which have tend to see the consolidation of market power in the hand of a relatively small number of player , who often do not compete against each other directly but dominate certain section of the market , be it through the mobile ad market , search and retail . there be only in effect two app store , and give the lack of interoperability , they be virtually monopoly . we see those thing already , and the development of large language model system and the massive acquisition of datum require for AI to run they be consolidate that market largely into the hand of the five or six company that have enough datum to be effective operator within it . that mean that , in the future digital market world , any challenger tech developer will have to access its market and customer through the service provide by a relatively small number of company . that be important . I would be grateful if the Minister say in wind up whether he believe that the Bill offer a well balance . have that balance change , or have it not , and it be just a question of language and interpretation of meaning ? what do it mean ? I hope we all agree that , through make this change , we be not seek to open up the legislation to wide judicial challenge , with more ruling through the court , more lengthy delay and cost to try to bring forward the cma ' s intervention . I rise to speak against the Government motion to disagree with Lords amendment 104 . as we have already hear , the amendment seek to safeguard fan from fraudulent abuse , which be rife in the secondary ticketing market . it be an important amendment on an issue that , as we have hear — it be worth say again — have have much work invest in it by my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) and her colleague on the all - party parliamentary group on ticket abuse . it also have great attention in the music industry , which be loud in its support for tackle ticket touting . anyone who have try to buy a ticket for a popular concert know the frustration of lose out on ticket , only then to see the same ticket at 10 time the price on the secondary market . tout go deep than mere frustration : it price fan out of attend music , cultural and sport event ; it damage the relationship between venue , artist and fan ; and it undermine confidence in our live music industry . yet , despite the call of major UK music industry body , include UK Music and live music Industry Venues & Entertainment , the Government have consistently fail to act . last year , the Government reject the recommendation of the Competition and Markets Authority to strengthen legislation and protect UK consumer from illegal practice in the secondary ticketing market . at the time , the CMA warn that unless there be reform , illegal reselling price would become bad . lord amendment 104 would implement the recommendation of the Competition and Markets Authority to provide safeguard for consumer . those be basic protection , such as ensure that a reseller can not sell more ticket than they can legally purchase on the primary market , and ensure that ticket can not be sell without proof of purchase . it be deeply disappointing that the Government can not commit even to those basic safeguard . under the Government ' s watch , the situation have become much bad . in 2007 , there be an estimate 150 full - time ticket tout in the UK . now there be about 4 , 000 tout attack ticket system for UK event , use bot to harvest ticket in bulk . instead of be use as a resale platform for fan who can no long make it to an event , ticket website be increasingly be use by large - scale tout who harvest ticket on the primary platform — use bot to skip the queue — and sell they on at many time the original price , sometimes speculatively . ordinary fan do not stand a chance against that ; they be the one who be lose out . the situation have become so bad that police force in some area be have to launch public awareness campaign warn about ticket tout after hundred of report of ticket fraud . Lloyds Banking Group be recently force to issue a warning to its customer about the risk of buy resold ticket after 600 of its customer report be scamme when they try to buy resale ticket for Taylor Swift ' s Eras tour . it have be estimate that resale for the UK leg of that tour alone have lead to more than £ 1 million be lose to fraudster so far . that be happen despite clear message from the promoter of the tour that resale ticket buy outside approve channel will be turn away at the door . as I say early , the Government can claim that they be do enough , and the Minister seem happy with that , but he should look again at those secondary ticketing site , where he will see three ticket for Taylor Swift ' s show on 21 June go for over £ 72 , 000 . that obviously show a completely malfunctioning , dysfunctional market . the Minister can not claim that the market be function for fan and artist — it be actually function for tout and the platform they use . lord amendment 104 be just one measure that would begin to counter the damage do by ticket tout . I be glad to say that Labour have now commit to go a step far . labour would significantly strengthen consumer right legislation to restrict the resale of ticket at more than a small set percentage over the price the original purchaser pay for it , include fee . labour would limit the number of ticket that individual reseller can list to the number that individual can legitimately buy via the original platform . labour would make platform accountable for the accuracy of information about the ticket they list for sale , and would ensure that the Competition and Markets Authority have the power it need to take swift and decisive action against platform and tout in order to protect consumer . the Minister can not keep stick his head in the sand . as the Competition and Markets Authority warn in 2021 , illegal reselling practice have become bad due to a lack of action . we be now get to a situation where artist and venue be on the cusp of lose the ability to sell ticket to genuine fan at an affordable price , and work family be be price out of see their favourite artist or their favourite sport team . music , culture and sport event must not just be for the elite — the people who can afford thousand of pound . how can the Government and the Minister justify their opposition to Lords amendment that would keep open access for fan to sport , to art and to culture ? I hope that he will listen to Opposition Members and not press the motion to disagree with this reasonable and modest amendment . I welcome the opportunity to speak in this debate , and it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) , who be do some great work in this area , formulate our policy for when we will hopefully be in government after the election . I be speak in the debate in my capacity as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on ticket abuse and to support Lords amendment 104 , which relate to the secondary ticketing market . before I begin , I reiterate that the sole purpose of the amendment be to protect british consumer from organised crime and to reduce the harm cause by the unlawful and exploitative activity of online ticket tout . aspect of the amendment have already be recommend by the Competition and Markets Authority , which recognise back in 2021 that the UK need strong legislation to tackle the resale of ticket . it be not just I who have be bang on about this since forever — the CMA be also call for it , have look at the market for many year . it have to be say that Lords amendment 104 will not come with any cost to the UK taxpayer either . if it fail to become law , the only beneficiary will be scammer , fraudster and the overseas website that they operate from . so member will be vote either in the interest of the british public or in the interest of ticket tout . the Minister say in his opening remark that all Opposition Members be do be crowd - pleasing ; I be sure I hear his word correctly . I think he will find that the crowd all have vote . this have be a fan - lead campaign . perhaps please the crowd be not always a bad idea . we be here to represent the people , after all . for too long , this Government have allow an online black market for ticket resale to thrive via website such as Viagogo , StubHub , Gigsberg , Ticombo and Seatsnet . the public — the crowd , as the Minister call they — be sick to death of it . I commend my hon . friend for all her work over a very long period on this important issue . it be important to support the Lords amendment because so many of our constituent be deprive of even the chance of get a ticket for a sport match , pop concert or whatever , as they can not beat the bot . be that not the inherent unfairness ? it absolutely be . it be not a level playing field at all . I be go to come to the bot , and the fact that nobody have yet be put behind bar for have use bot , even though they be illegal , and be the tool that tout use to harvest ticket , so that they can scam the rest of the population and all our constituent . I be happy to stand here and crowd - please — I will do it until my die breath — because that be what we be here to do . we should do the right thing for the public , and they be call for we to regulate this market . I do not want my hon . friend ' s die breath . do she notice that the lovely Minister do not even present a single argument against any of the element in the Lords amendment ? he do not make the argument on why the Government do not support it , even though it be a patently obvious and sensible measure . that be a good observation . to hazard a guess , the Minister probably agree with the Lords amendment . he be a decent chap , and I think he see the right in it , but he be sit on the Government Benches . he be always welcome to come and join we on these Benches — it be quite a popular thing to do lately . if he want to come over here , we will sort this out . it would be great if he be part of that , which be probably deep down what he would like to do . all the website that we be talk about be base outside the UK . they employ , essentially , no british staff — maybe a handful at most , but it be hard to check . they all masquerade as marketplace where fan can buy and resell with other fan , but we know that be not true . all be dominate by large - scale online tout commit criminal offence to harvest ticket in bulk , as my hon . friend the Member for Denton and Reddish ( Andrew Gwynne ) say in his excellent intervention . that have lead to a highly lucrative resale market worth hundred of million of pound . this be not small fry anymore . face - value ticket be syphon away from genuine fan and sell back to they at highly inflated price . my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) say in her excellent speech that the number of tout have go from hundred to many , many thousand . it be get out of proportion . this be well sum up by Chris Allison , the former deputy assistant commissioner at the Metropolitan police . follow a four - year investigation of tout post the Olympics — those ticket be protect in law , as I mention early — he state : " tout be part of organise criminal network often involve in other crime " . in recent year , enforcement body such as the CMA , National Trading Standards and the Advertising Standards Authority have try , with vary degree of success , to intervene in this broken market , either to prosecute the tout who be unlawfully defraud music and sport lover , or to force the ticket resale website to comply with consumer protection legislation . and , oh my , the CMA have try so hard to force those website to comply , use the measure that it have to hand , which be not enough . it have even ask for further measure ; as we hear in the last debate on this subject , the Government reject that . this have become an increasingly complex situation to sort out . that be why the Labour party be seek to follow the example of country such as Ireland , France and Australia by cap the price at which ticket can be resold . let I draw the House ' s attention to my private Member ' s Bill in 2011 , which seek to do just that : cap resale at face value plus 10 % , as the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) , say . that would allow someone resell ticket to reclaim extra cost , such as book fee . contrary to what have be write about I over many year , I do not want to stop any fan from resell their ticket if they can no long go to the event . I just want the industrial - scale , parasitic scalping to stop . however , until we get to that point — and while the Conservatives be still in government — it be important that current legislation be make as effective as possible . they could ensure that now . the small measure that we be talk about do not go as far as we plan to go , but they would be a start in prevent consumer harm and make it hard for bad actor to thrive . I support Lords amendment 104 , introduce by my friend and co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on ticket abuse Lord Moynihan , with the assistance of Lord Clement - Jones , Baroness Jones and other . we have Lord Moynihan to thank for the amendment to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 that get through small measure that we hope would be the panacea for all the problem in the secondary market , but nine year later , that Act have not fix this broken market . that be why we need this amendment . in the amendment , propose new section 92a ( 1 ) of the 2015 Act would compel tout to provide proof of purchase to the ticketing facility , or evidence of title to the ticket offer for resale . that be common sense , pragmatic and cost - free . the provision would target trader and business only , and as my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles South say , would eliminate the speculative selling that be endemic on platform such as Viagogo , and the emotional devastation and physical risk that come with it . I have see numerous case of what she speak about : people be turn away , after have travel from one end of the country to the other at great expense , and have book overnight accommodation . they find that they can not get into the theatre , the O2 , the concert or whatever it may be , because they have invalid ticket . someone write to I recently who get in touch with Viagogo before the event because they fear that they have an invalid ticket . they be tell to try their luck on the door , regardless of the fact that it be an invalid ticket . they know that they would be turn away at the door with this Taylor Swift ticket , but be tell , " just try your luck . if you can ' t get in , we ' ll give you a refund . " they would have to fight for it first , and it would take six month if they be lucky . this person be also tell , " why not sell it on ? list it again , and we win ' t charge you a fee . " it be outrageous that she be suppose to pass it on . I have email between she and Viagogo to back this up . she be be encourage to sell on a ticket that she know be invalid , cause more victim . those be the sort of practice that these website use . in August 2022 , an ITV investigation base on datum from FanFair Alliance find that two third of festival ticket on Viagogo be fraudulently list by just three individual . these reseller be relatively few in number but account for 90 % to 95 % of the ticket sell on platform such as Viagogo . let we think about that : just three major tout be sell 90 % to 95 % of festival ticket . other platform , such as Gigsberg , be 100 % reliant on business and trader , many of whom my APPG and the CMA believe be act illegally . subsection ( 2 ) of propose new section 92A would crack down on the industrial harvesting of ticket by prevent reseller from sell more ticket to an event than they can legally purchase from the primary market . that be just common sense , surely . this be first recommend by the CMA in August 2021 , almost three year ago . it make the proposal after a six - year enforcement investigation that conclude , as I say , that the CMA need " strong law " to tackle illegal ticket resale . this change would make it easy for genuine fan to access ticket instead of professional tout look to make a parasitical profit . despite the fact that , as my hon . friend the Member for Denton and Reddish say , use bot and other malicious software be illegal , tout do so without fear of prosecution , as no one have yet be prosecute for use bot for the industrial harvesting of ticket . artist such as Ed Sheeran and Taylor Swift have repeatedly state that they do not wish for their ticket to be tout . artist get upset when their loyal fan blame they for not protect they from tout , even though they do try . both Taylor Swift and Ed Sheeran have go to great length to try to protect their fan from the tout . subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) of propose new section 92A force tout to clearly state the face value of any ticket list for resale — again , surely that information should be provide — and to ensure " the trader or business ' s name and trading address be clearly visible , in full , on the first page the ticket be viewable on . " the information " must not be hide behind an icon , a drop down menu or other device " , which be what actually happen . the Consumer Rights Act state explicitly — these be Lord Moynihan ' s reform , which be add to the 2015 Act — that platform must legally provide buyer with seat location , face - value price and restriction , for example . they should be provide " in a clear and comprehensible manner " and " before the buyer be bind by the contract for the sale of the ticket . " before they purchase , consumer have a right to know what they be buy , and who they be buy it from . that be in current law , but Viagogo have a track record of hiding face value behind what we call " hover text " , or small , tiny icon mark " FV " , so you have to know what you be look for to find it . it obscure trader identity behind a tiny star icon , and only reveal a trader ' s identity after the user enter their credit card detail and have go through the CAPTCHA process , so the user have often commit to buy before they know who they be buy from and what the face value be . that be in straight contravention of the 2015 Act . on 99 . 9 % of other website , CAPTCHA be use to protect consumer . on Viagogo , it be use to protect the identity of its commercial supplier — in other word , tout . detail of any ticket restriction — for example , the information that resale be only allow at face value — be provide in an unclear and incomprehensible manner , and be often bury in the middle of other small print , and then negate by claim about Viagogo ' s " guarantee " — that be a very loose term if you be on Viagogo ' s website . those practice be purposely misleading for most , but even more so for those who be visually impaired , tourist who do not speak fluent English , or old people without niche technical skill , who could be buy ticket for a grandchild ' s birthday . I have have lot of grandparent in touch with I . as someone say — I think it be my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles South — they then feel stupid . I have have such a number of email from people say , " this be my fault . I be stupid . I should have know well . I should have check . " we should not allow company to exist that do this in such a big way . they say , " Buyer beware " ; that be Viagogo ' s motto , I think . it be probably hide on its website . what be happen be not right , and it be up to we to protect consumer ; that be what Parliament be for . we should not allow this to happen on such a scale . furthermore , expert involve with the all - party parliamentary group on ticket abuse have find that large number of seller be base abroad , or have link to form of organise crime all the way up to convict drug dealer , money launderer and bank robber . the secondary ticketing market be not full of " classic entrepreneur " as a former Chancellor and former Culture Secretary , the right hon . member for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) , would have we believe . they be serious criminal . if member want to see when he say that , it be in 2011 when he be help to talk out my private Member ' s Bill . however , conviction be extremely few and far between , despite thousand of professional tout operate . it be important for the Minister that I clarify the number . there have be only two major case , involve six conviction , against tout . when I speak of two case , that is two court case with six conviction . it be not six case . I just want to make sure that that be clear on the record . my hon . friend be make a really important point . she rightly point out the degree of criminality at the high end of the organisation that be responsible for the touting industry , and the lack of prosecution . it be actually quite a good business proposition for they , be it not ? it be relatively risk - free . they be probably more likely to get sentence for be an international drug dealer than for sell the ticket . it be very interesting that my hon . friend have come to the same conclusion I have . I have make that exact point in many interview over the year : why would anybody go out and rob bank or do any sort of crime for which they might get catch , when they could just be a ticket tout ? they ' ll make a fortune and nobody will come after they , not even the taxman . there will be no hand of the law on their shoulder . there have be only two case and six prosecution in all the time I have be campaign on this issue . so yes , it be time we sort it out . it be just not acceptable . the recent case that I think the Minister refer to early involved individual be convict for buy and resell ticket worth £ 6 . 5 million — £ 6 . 5 million . they have be catch , but that be because they be right up at the top end . there will be people make £ 1 million , half a million pound , £ 2 million or £ 3 million who have not be catch . there be so many tout . the case involve use multiple , often fake , identity to buy large number of ticket with multiple credit card . however , conviction be extremely few and far between , despite thousand of professional tout operate . finally , those who trade in the UK must be subject to UK law — surely we all agree with that . subsection ( 5 ) of propose new section 92A state : " a secondary ticketing facility must make it clear to trader and business base overseas that sell ticket to UK consumer and target UK consumer through pay or sponsor advertisement " — in some case use Google and trusted publication , or even sponsor podcast by trust influencer — " or pay infomercial that they be subject to UK legislation . " the vast majority of supplier to Viagogo and other secondary platform be commercial business . a significant proportion be base outside the UK , as I say , but they target UK event to derive the high possible profit . likewise , none of the website have office in the UK . there be no UK job at stake , apart from a handful . it have be quite hard for I and my team to check and be sure of the number , as these company be all register in tax haven and overseas . however , the damage and exploitation occur in the UK at the expense of artist , athlete and fan , without any fear of the current toothless UK law . Viagogo have already have its wing clip , partially , by cma order over the year , but in my opinion it be nowhere near enough . it have repeatedly show that it can not be trust to mark its own homework . for instance , elsewhere Viagogo be fine 7 million australian dollar for mislead consumer , € 20 million for break the law in Italy and € 400 , 000 in France for break the law around rugby world cup ticket . yet we hear the Minister ' s colleague , the Minister for Media , Tourism and Creative Industries , spout the Viagogo line of defence from the Dispatch Box just a couple of week ago — go figure ! this be all on the record , because my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles South raise it in a point of order a couple of week ago , just after the Minister for Media , Tourism and Creative Industries do it . unless legislative action be take to stop this black market , it will continue to grow and cause further damage . this modest amendment effectively plug loophole in legislation , and ensure that music and sport fan of all age have the information that they need before they make that purchase . I implore everyone here today to please support Lords amendment 104 and start put fan first — or else move aside so that we can do so . it be an absolute privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) — my good friend — who have be a tenacious campaigner on this issue for so many year , and I implore minister to listen to she and note her expertise . I ask they please to back Lords amendment 104 . a review be not good enough in the die day of a fail government ; we desperately need action now . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate . I proudly see this Bill through part of its Commons stage in my previous role as the shadow tech and digital economy Minister , and it be fantastic to see it so ably steer through the House today with the support of my good friend and neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) . as we have hear , what be draft legislation for so long have be woefully slow to materialise . it have sit on the shelf since 2018 , so it be nice to finally see it bring back to the House today and to see the Government take action . I welcome it , as do the Labour party more widely , have lead the way in call on the Government to ensure that large tech company be govern by proper regulation to allow for competition in our digital market . Labour have long call for measure to protect consumer , enhance innovation and promote competition in digital market in order to unlock growth and level the play field for small business . in the midst of a conservative cost of living crisis , this measure could not be more timely , and the need for it have be constantly confirm in conversation I have have with constituent in Pontypridd . let we not forget that it be be over a year since the legislation be first propose here . owe to internal chaos and conflict , the Tories have long delay the Bill , and it be disappointing that we be now be give a water - down version of the original Bill and that its delay be cause we to fall behind our european partner . the UK have the potential to lead the way , but the Government have instead choose to take a back seat and to be lead . to say that the Bill be overdue be an understatement . since it be promise , we have see the digital world continue to change , grow and expand at an incredible and exponential rate . we have see a significant growth in artificial intelligence technology hit the mainstream , and tech be become more and more central to our home , job and social life . our post - covid world have adapt to hybrid , tech - dependent working style , and job in all sector have accommodate that preference . whether it be for work , shopping or our social life , we be all spend more time online . I see that — sadly — in my own habit , as well as those of my colleague and constituent . I believe we can all agree that a thriving digital economy in which all sector and all business become digital be vital for the UK ' s economic growth , but the Government have nevertheless fail to keep up . now that they have finally decide to deliver this albeit water - down legislation , it be up to they to ensure that it survive and , if it do , to protect it from further watering - down change . so far , I be not convince that that will be the case . the Government have table an amendment in lieu of one of the Lords amendment , but they be ignore the remainder . while most of the disagreement relate to different semantic interpretation of the wording , it be important that we get the wording right so that the Bill work in practice and not just on paper . I be afraid that these frustration be not new . many of they be not dissimilar to those that my colleague and I raise during the Committee stage of the Online Safety Act 2023 . let we be clear : while big company have a significant impact on our economy , that power should never be extend to our legislative process . the process of form and scrutinise legislation should be entirely independent from any private company interest . parliamentarian and our government should not be influence in any circumstance , because we as public servant should be here for our people — our constituent — rather than be here to promote and advance the interest of big company and big tech . what be more important to the government : appease big company or act for the good of the people they be suppose to represent ? if it be not appease big company , why will they not revert to ensure that the CMA ' s intervention be appropriate rather than proportionate ? we all know that this change will have a significant impact on the scope of the big tech firm to challenge cma decision under judicial review . give that court have to navigate these new and broad ground for judicial review appeal against those decision , big tech firm be provide with huge , limitless legal budget and bottomless pocket to tie up the CMA in lengthy legal dispute . it be imperative that the Lords amendment remain in their original form to hold big tech firm accountable , to limit their scope to appeal and to reduce the ambiguity in relation to court interpretation about which we have hear today . move beyond those concern , this Bill be still absolutely necessary , which be why it have the support of the Labour party , as do the Lords amendment . we all know that the digital economy have open new market for business and have give consumer access to new information , but with rival unable to compete with the world ' s most powerful global company , they do not sit on an equal footing . Google have a more than 90 % share of the 7 . 3 billion search advertising market in the UK , and Facebook have over 50 % of the £ 5 . 5 billion display advertising market . that be completely unfair , and constitute both a challenge to business and a detriment to consumer . this mean that everyday consumer have little to no autonomy over their online choice , or in how much datum they have to give out . as for business , this be limit their innovation , as their idea be likely to be quash by an algorithm and they be therefore unable to compete by any reasonable and fair mean . for example , Amazon ' s use of its position as a marketplace , a publisher and a bookseller have be detrimental to the potential and work of independent bookseller who be push aside because they can not compete with these huge company and the advantage that the marketplace afford they . I be glad to see that the Lords amendment recognise the importance of user choice , autonomy and independence from the big company that be push an agenda and escape scrutiny . why , then , have the Government shy away from this ? if , as they claim , the wording maintain the same high threshold , why will they not clarify the fact that the " indispensable " standard and the new standard be equal ? what exactly be they afraid of ? big tech must be hold accountable , and must not be able to complicate legal proceeding and escape scrutiny . surely that point should not cause disagreement . why have the Government again move to a merit appeal approach to penalty decision ? this be completely unworkable . proceeding must take a judicial review approach , which mean that a decision will be judge on the basis of its lawfulness rather than its correctness or the view of a tribunal . this approach will fail to incentivise big tech firm to comply with cma decision . while the Tories ' water down of the Bill may initially appear trivial , in fact it will only encourage big tech to challenge the decision of the CMA . if we want the Bill to be workable — to be worth the paper on which it be write — we must ensure that it be clear , precise and unambiguous . give that the judicial review and merit element of appeal could bleed into one another — which be cause concern — ambiguity be already rife in this Bill . the Government must reverse their watering down of this all - important legislation or , at the very least , clarify exactly what the change to the wording represent . that be exactly why the Lords amendment be so necessary . I urge the Government to reconsider they with the seriousness that they deserve and , at the minimum , to make effort to compromise , as they have do with one of they . the same must be do for the other three in question . the Lords amendment would bring small business on to a level playing field , and protect the autonomy and pocket of our consumer . if the Bill fail to do that and be water down any far , it will not be worth the paper it be write on . the Government can do the right thing . they should take the opportunity to do so , and I implore they to do so . today I want to speak in support of Lords amendment 104 and the Lords amendment relate to foreign state ownership of UK newspaper , and I will raise some question about the Lords amendment relate to consumer protection against unfair subscription practice and the use of fake review . I will start by set out my overall support for the Bill and establish a bit of context for why it be so important to get the regulation of the digital economy right . over the past decade , our economy have obviously be transform by digital change . in many way this have bring benefit but , equally , it have bring new harm — new way that unscrupulous individual and company can exploit we all . People in our community be affect by the failure of exist digital regulation , and I would argue that it be often community like mine that bear the brunt . in Newham we have significant digital exclusion , and massive damage have be cause to family finance by the cost of living crisis . it be all the more damaging for someone to be rip off when their income barely manage to pay the bill already . it be more than that , because in time of stress and when people be work long hour to make end meet , they hardly have the time or the energy to read through often opaque term and condition before purchase . they be less likely to have the capacity to go and search for all the deliberate barrier that can be set up in order to find out how to cancel a subscription that be cost they dear . I have to say that , even with assistance from young member of my family , I have personally fail to cancel a number of subscription that I be absolutely assure have go . we have to get this right — not for I , but for other — so that people have the capacity to search for all the deliberate barrier that can be set up in order find out how to cancel their subscription . this Bill and many of the Lords amendment make welcome progress on some of these issue . I will start with ticket touting , which , as we know , be one of the most egregiously exploitative practice . I think we can all agree that it be simply wrong to buy ticket in bulk and then charge a huge mark - up fee for resale . it create massive barrier to access culture , particularly for people on low income , and the revenue go not to our hard - press musician and venue , but to grifter who add absolutely no value of their own . it come back to the point about bot . even the most tech - savvy person can not beat the bot , and once those bot get go , they sweep away all the ticket and genuine fan can not get they . that be so unfair — almost as unfair as the extortionate price that these company charge for the ticket they have sweep up use those bot . my hon . friend be absolutely right . we have family struggle to buy ticket for their child who be desperate to go and see x band or y band , and then they find themselves rip off and unable to have that treat , which be massively look forward to . I give huge credit to my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) for her year of dedicated campaigning in this area . her work have help to bring this issue to the forefront of debate , and to make it clear that legal change be necessary to protect our cultural industry and consumer from the tout . we on the Opposition Benches have a clear policy to stamp out ticket touting so that no one be able to charge a large mark - up on resold ticket . be it not important to emphasise that this issue need legislation ? lot of venue have try their level well to get it right . for instance , the O2 Arena only endorse the use of its reseller , AXS , which be only allow to sell ticket at 10 % above the original price — precisely what we be say should be available to everybody else — but the venue can not stop other company effectively nick all the ticket because of the use of bot . that be why we need legislation . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . we have try to nip this in the bud by bring it to the public ' s attention , put pressure on individual and encourage action to be take , but we need legislation to stamp it out . I like the fact that in Labour ' s propose legislation there will be an upper limit on the number of ticket that an individual can resell , in order to make organised ticket tout an unprofitable practice . People who honestly buy ticket and then find that they can not attend should absolutely be allow to sell their ticket on — that be in the consumer ' s interest and the good interest of our constituent — but culture and sport fan should no long be gouge and exploit . thankfully , there be a Lords amendment before we today that would ensure that very thing . it be put forward by none other than the Conservative Lord Moynihan . it would go some way to implement these protection , but despite that the Government seem determined to oppose change and go no far in protect consumer from ticket tout , even though they acknowledge that the problem persist . frankly , I know that my constituent will want to understand why the Government appear determined to stand in the way of great protection even when they be be put forward by one of their very own noble Lords . why be the Government ignore the voice of fan organisation and creative who want a fair , properly regulate market in event ticket ? I think the Minister might have a job of work to do in convince my constituent that this be about sound regulation rather than the fail free market ideology of the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) . we in this House must not forget the importance of protect Britons from unfair practice , and we must always remember to put they first . we know that this be far from the only area where poor regulation of our cultural and medium market pose serious risk to consumer and community alike , so I want to say a few word about the large number of Lords amendment on the state ownership of our newspaper . I thank my Opposition Front - Bench colleague for demonstrate leadership and press for action on this issue , and I welcome the Government ' s amendment in the other place follow those call . it be important that there be now something like cross - party consensus on this , because we live in a world where distrust be strong and misinformation thrive . I know that many of we share the fear that genuine , honest journalism be become a rare commodity , and the impact of that be massive right across our society . failure to promote a trustworthy medium landscape fuel conspiracy theory and extremism , and it distract attention from the genuine , massive challenge that face we as a country and as a world . we should all fear become a society that be rive by division , because all our community lose out from that . I believe that only scammer , extremist and tyrant ultimately benefit . I be not say that foreign state ownership of UK newspaper would lead directly to those medium outlet spew division , hate and lie , but I be seriously worried about the further impact it would have on public trust in our medium . we all need to recognise the great potential for interference in our democracy from foreign state if they own media outlet directly . we can not just act to block foreign state takeover of paper — our agenda need to be wide than that . we need to support impartial and independent public interest journalism through the BBC , include the fabulous World Service , which be so important and currently in significant financial difficulty . we need , obviously , to continue act to improve the regulation of online social medium space where , as we know , trust be near extinct and where so much harm be do to the most vulnerable in our community . amendment against foreign ownership of newspaper be only a tiny part of the solution , but they be a step forward . I welcome the action take on this issue in the other place , which have improve the Bill . finally , I will speak to some of the wide amendment make in the other place to well protect consumer from scam and exploitation . as we know , the abuse of subscription service by hide cancellation option affect people in every part of our country . People be steadily lose money , month after month , to service that they do not want but do not know how to cancel . Citizens Advice estimate that £ 300 million a year be be spend on unwanted subscription . obviously this be of even more concern where people be not completely digitally literate , so I hope the Minister might tell we more about what work be be do to monitor and update the digital inclusion strategy . it be a bit of a shock that there have be no update for about 10 year . accord to Age UK , nearly 6 million old people , include many of my constituent , can not use the internet . one constituent recently tell I about how they miss a hospital appointment because they lose the message tell they about it . we all know that this be all too common , and that it create unnecessary and unfair barrier to access so many of our public service and just take part in everyday life . frankly , the example I have see show that anybody can be impact , because it be often massively hard to cancel a subscription agreement than to enter one . that be just blatant and egregious , and it be difficult for any of we to navigate . additional protection in law simply can not come soon enough , and there be widespread recognition that great clarity be need in regulation . regulator will obviously need to be more active in hold the provider of subscription service to account where they use exploitative tactic against consumer . the test be whether the Bill will deliver that . I welcome the debate in the other place on how this will be implement in law and , slightly unusually , I give credit to the Minister in the other place for rightly engage with probe amendment and for seek to maintain strong protection for consumer . I hope the Minister here today will say more about where the Bill ultimately stand . will the regulator have the clarity and confidence it need to start enforce against exploitative practice , or will we be back here in a few year after the regulation have be test and find sadly want ? I argue that the lack of a clear prohibition on create fake review be an omission from the original Bill . Shadow Ministers and Opposition colleague have call for great clarity on that since Second Reading , almost a year ago , so I welcome the measure that have now be include . in our everyday life , when we look for good and service online , many of we have little alternative but to rely on review . fake review be clearly a massive threat to genuine competition , and they be effectively an open door for scammer and cowboy to rip people off far . again , I hope the Minister might say a little more on the final position . there be significant debate in the other place on probe amendment that question whether strong provision be need , particularly on the responsibility of platform and internet service provider that host fake review . be the Minister absolutely confident that those platform be clear about the action they must take to stop their service be abuse by fake review scammer ? I be not entirely happy with everything in this Bill . I remain seriously disappoint by the Government ' s inaction on ticket touting . I hope that the Minister will look again and find it in his heart to support amendment 104 . I echo many of the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda about some of the way in which the general enforcement and appeal provision in the Bill have be weaken . I fear that there have be some heavy lobbying of the Government by big tech company , which have have an impact . the people of West Ham will not be pleased to hear that , as it generate understandable concern that the provision might prove too weak and riven with loophole to do the job that member on both side of this House want to see , although the Bill have be improve in other area by hon . friend and colleague here and in the other place . it contain welcome provision that will help to protect my constituent from exploitation online . I hope we will see it in force as soon as possible . with the leave of the House , I will respond to some of the point raise in this fruitful , constructive debate . I reassure the shadow Minister that I have lose none of my mojo or ambition to ensure a fair and level playing field for business . that be a vital part of this legislation . at time I may smile when I be at the Dispatch Box and there be a couple of reason for that ; not only be I generally a happy guy but I be pleased to see this groundbreaking legislation be bring into effect . it be probably one of only two major piece of legislation around the world that do what it do . we should welcome that and the fair and level playing field that will result from it . I do not accept what the shadow Minister say about the Government have cave in and weaken some of the Bill ' s provision . it be fair to say that some of the platform would like we to have change the Bill radically from how it be when it be present to Parliament . we think we have very much hold the line on its provision and how it will ensure that consumer and small business get a well deal . we do not accept that it will bring about " bleed back " , as he put it , between the on - the - merit provision of penalty and other regulatory decision . we have be clear on that and our legal advice be of the same mind . secondary ticketing be a key part of the debate , have be raise by various member . we absolutely see that there be good practice in some primary market , where there be control as to resale . we should learn from good practice , such as ID requirement on the resale of ticket . that be within the gift of those in the primary market , so we be keen to develop the review to ensure that we look at both the primary and secondary market , as the opposition call for in an amendment table early in the Bill ' s progress . I be grateful to the Cheshire cat for give way . do he oppose the Lords amendment on ticket tout because of the propose new subsection state that there need to be " proof of purchase " for secondary ticket marketing , or because detail of the " face value " of the ticket have to be provide ? it be difficult to determine why the Minister oppose the Lords amendment other than because it be an inconvenience to government . we believe that those measure , such as on the face value of the ticket , be already cover by the current legislation and enforcement . the Government have certainly go a lot far than previous regime have : we strengthen the term and guidance in 2017 ; we ban ticket bot — the hon . Gentleman mention that but do not seem to understand that it have be outlaw in 2018 ; and we improve enforcement action by the regulator , as we have see six successful prosecution under the new regime . I remind he that where other jurisdiction have supposedly go far in ban resale , such as in Ireland , no prosecution have take place . we be try to ensure that we have a balance and that our provision work well . rise — I will address the hon . Lady ' s point in a moment , as I be keen to respond to some of they . if the Minister go to the Viagogo website and try to buy a ticket , he will see on the first page that it say the ticket be £ 420 or whatever . can he see the original value of the ticket ? no . can he see whether it be a validly purchase ticket ? no . that be the problem that the amendment would solve . it would be simple for the Government to agree to the amendment and then we can get the Bill through . we believe those provision be already there . I have quite happily use Viagogo on many occasion , as other people have when resell ticket . of course we will keep look at the primary and secondary market , and at the interaction between the two , so that we can develop the right way to regulate the market , in a future Parliament . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I will come to the hon . Lady ' s point in a moment . on the thing we be do to hold big tech to account , I can assure my hon . friend the Member for Weston - super - Mare ( John Penrose ) that the fire burn brightly in I . I do not think we have move away in any material way from ensure that this legislation be fit for purpose and do what it set out to do . as I say in response to his early intervention , we do not believe there be any bleed - across between the merit - base approach to penalty and other regulatory intervention . the revised wording about the countervail benefit exemption do not change the effect of the clause and do not change the guidance in the explanatory note . as my hon . friend be aware , we be do a lot of work on regulation . we have engage on regular occasion to ensure that get to where he want . on cost and benefit , he will have notice we bring forward the growth duty for our economic regulator quite recently , as well as the smart datum road map . I know he wait with bated breath for the White Paper that will come forward shortly . I thank the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) for his support for the legislation . we do not think the change from conduct be indispensable to the benefit ; benefit could not be realise without the conduct materially change the position in any way . my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) say that we have move to a different balance . I do not think I say that ; I be happy to clarify my remark about proportionality . we have provide more certainty and clarity around that position , which we always think be part of the way the CMA would make its decision . he make point about how the regulator would view , for example , the significant charge make across the Xbox platform , which both charge 30 % to the people who have e - commerce through those payment system . as he say , business might not think that be too much , but we both know that it be not business that pay that ultimately , but consumer . the requirement for the CMA to make intervention for the benefit of consumer be in its very dna , so I think it would act in those situation . the hon . member for Worsley and Eccles South ( Barbara Keeley ) talk about the secondary ticketing position . I hear her point , and the point raise by the hon . member for Washington and Sunderland West ( Mrs Hodgson ) , very clearly . I counsel the Minister against what he be do . as his colleague in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport team do recently at oral question , he be repeat the argument that the platform use . it be sad to hear minister repeat the same line that a global chief officer of Viagogo come out with when they be over here . in Ireland , fraud activity have not increase — because the legislation be work . , and that be why there be no prosecution in Ireland . we would be in that situation if we have that legislation . as my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Sunderland West probably want to point out , it be alright to say that the use of bot be illegal , but nobody be be prosecute for the illegal use of bot to wholesale - buy ticket ; it be happen , so I counsel the Minister and his ministerial colleague ' against their constant repetition , which be not plausible to anybody outside . the hon . Lady be right to say that there be a difference between legislation and enforcement . we urge the authority that have responsibility to enforce those provision to make use of they . in Ireland , where the resale of ticket have be ban , inflated price be still a feature of the ticket market . ticket for Taylor Swift ' s Dublin show be sell well in excess of their face price on the internet in Ireland , but no prosecution have be make . rise — may I make it clear that I be not accuse the hon . member for Worsley and Eccles South of crowd pleasing ? as I say in my early remark , and as I will say to the hon . member for Washington and Sunderland West before she intervene , we should not simply take measure that be crowd pleasing in the hope they will work but they be ineffective . that be not to say that we do not think further measure be require . on the point about Taylor Swift and whether any of her ticket have be sell on the secondary market in Ireland , I challenge the Minister to take another look at that rather than take the word of his official or whoever have tell he . I have be tell that no Taylor swift ticket be on sale on Viagogo in Ireland . she have state that her ticket will not be valid if they be resold on a secondary platform , so they will not be find on a secondary platform in Ireland . yes , I have just google seller of ticket in Dublin , and people can buy ticket well in excess of face value on the platform . I could not find they on Viagogo , but other platform be sell those ticket . we be try to do something that be effective . I be very happy to continue to engage with the hon . Lady , as she make a very compelling case . I shall continue to look at what she say and continue to engage with she . I be very keen to ensure that we get to the right place , so that we protect consumer , but allow a fair , free market to work properly . I be very grateful to the Minister for give way . I want to take he back to his comment that what be need be not new legislation , but well enforcement . the enforcement authority would presumably be trading standard . what be the reason there be not the prosecution that we would all like to see ? be it because trading standard have be run into the ground and do not have the capacity to do the job that he be expect it to do ? be it because of the complexity of the market ? and which trading standard be responsible : the one where the platform be base , the one where the person who buy the ticked be base , or the one where the concert be be hold ? that make enforce this measure really difficult . I thank the hon . member for his point . I say not that legislation be not need , but that there be no point in have legislation without enforcement . there have be six successful prosecution by trading standard , but be he say that he want to fund trading standard to a great degree ? I understand some of the pressure on local authority across the country ; there be pressure on the public finance generally . if he have a solution to that and can provide lot more money to local authority , he should have a word with his Front - Bench team , because that have not be labour ' s policy . unlike with trading standard , many cash - strap family and young people fall for online scam , because they be on the hunt for bargain on Facebook Marketplace and , to a less extent , on eBay and Vinted . they be often at the mercy of be rip off with very little protection and little to no help from local trading standard because of that confusion over whether it be where the buyer be or where the seller be . in particular , that be because they be for more casual and low - value transaction . can the Minister confirm whether that will be in the review as well ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . she make a very good point . I be happy to look at the concern that she raise . we will look at the concern raise by all stakeholder , member of this House and people far afield to ensure that , when we carry out this review , we get to the right place . the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) seem to think EU legislation be strong than our . let I point out that appeal standard consider the merit across the piece in the European Union ; they do not in the UK , as they be confine to a very small element of it . finally , I be pleased that the hon . member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) support the Bill and very pleased that she support freedom of speech . Digital inclusion be very important . the Under - Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , my hon . friend the Member for Meriden ( Saqib Bhatti ) be work very hard on social inclusion and social tariff of broadband through the cross - ministerial group . we be very keen to ensure that reminder notice for subscription be very clear for all our consumer . to conclude , I urge all member on both side of the House to carefully consider the amendment that I have propose in lieu of those make in the other place . I hope that all member will feel able to support our position . Taylor Swift seem to be everywhere , even in the House of Commons , doesn ' t she ? question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 9 . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Alister Jack Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Anne Marie Morris Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Jenkinson Robert Largan Diane Abbott Tahir Ali Tonia Antoniazzi Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Janet Daby Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Gen Kitchen Ben Lake David Lammy Emma Lewell - Buck David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Kerry McCarthy Stewart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Christina Rees Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Liz Twist Christian Wakeford Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Jeff Smith Colleen Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 273 , Noes 159 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 9 disagree to . clause 29 - countervail benefit exemption Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 12 . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Alister Jack Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Anne Marie Morris Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Jenkinson Robert Largan Diane Abbott Tahir Ali Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Janet Daby Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Gen Kitchen Ben Lake David Lammy Emma Lewell - Buck David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Christina Rees Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Liz Twist Christian Wakeford Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Jeff Smith Colleen Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 276 , Noes 161 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 12 disagree to . lord amendment 13 and 19 disagree to . clause 89 - procedure and appeal etc Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 26 . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Alister Jack Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Anne Marie Morris Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Jenkinson Robert Largan Diane Abbott Tahir Ali Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Janet Daby Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Chris Evans Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Gen Kitchen Ben Lake David Lammy Emma Lewell - Buck David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Christina Rees Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Liz Twist Christian Wakeford Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Colleen Fletcher Jeff Smith the House divide : Ayes 274 , Noes 162 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 26 disagree to . lord amendment 27 and 28 disagree to . clause 103 - Applications for review etc Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 31 . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Mark Francois Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Alister Jack Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Anne Marie Morris Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker Bill Wiggin James Wild Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Tahir Ali Tonia Antoniazzi Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Janet Daby Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord George Galloway Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Gen Kitchen Ben Lake David Lammy Emma Lewell - Buck David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Christina Rees Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Liz Twist Christian Wakeford Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Colleen Fletcher Jeff Smith the House divide : Ayes 272 , Noes 162 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 31 disagree to . lord amendment 32 disagree to . clause 114 - Guidance Lords amendment 38 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 38 . after clause 308 - Requirements on secondary ticketing feature Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 104 . — ( Kevin Hollinrake . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Mark Francois Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Alister Jack Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Julia Lopez Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Anne Marie Morris Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Selaine Saxby Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Robert Largan Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Tahir Ali Tonia Antoniazzi Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Hilary Benn Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Bambos Charalambous Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Janet Daby Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Lucy Frazer George Galloway Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Paulette Hamilton Neale Hanvey Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Gen Kitchen Ben Lake David Lammy Emma Lewell - Buck David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Stewart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Matthew Pennycook Anum Qaisar Christina Rees Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Michael Shanks Tommy Sheppard Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Liz Twist Christian Wakeford Catherine West Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Colleen Fletcher Jeff Smith the House divide : Ayes 273 , Noes 163 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 104 disagree to . lord amendment 1 to 8 , 10 , 11 , 14 to 18 , 20 to 25 , 29 , 30 , 33 to 37 , 39 to 103 and 105 to 148 agree to , with Commons financial privilege waive in respect of Lords amendment 35 , 36 , 42 , 112 , 117 , 128 and 132 to 134 . order , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their Amendments 9 , 12 , 13 , 19 , 26 to 28 , 31 , 32 and 104 ; that Kevin Hollinrake , Saqib Bhatti , Mike Wood , Steve Tuckwell , Sir Chris Bryant , Colleen Fletcher and Richard Thomson be member of the Committee ; that Kevin Hollinrake be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Paul Holmes . ) Committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Local Government that the draft Combined Authorities ( Finance ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 21 March , be approve . — ( Paul Holmes . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Electricity that the draft contract for difference ( sustainable industry Rewards ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 21 March , be approve . — ( Paul Holmes . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Road Traffic that the draft Goods Vehicles ( International Road Transport Permits and Haulage within the EU ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 4 March , be approve . — ( Paul Holmes . ) question agree to . education Ordered , that Apsana Begum and Kim Johnson be discharge from the Education Committee and Jess Phillips and Gen Kitchen be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) European Scrutiny Ordered , that Adam Holloway be discharge from the European Scrutiny Committee and Paul Bristow be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Justice order , that Maria Eagle and Karl Turner be discharge from the Justice Committee and Bambos Charalambous and Yasmin Qureshi be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - Protection of the Amazon Rainforest I rise to present a petition on behalf of the resident of Linlithgow and East Falkirk on the protection of the Amazon rainforest . the deforestation of the Amazon be a considerable environmental threat to we all and it be contribute to the forest ' s inability to recover from drought , fire and landslide . the petitioner " therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage the brazilian Government to protect forest land and end large - scale deforestation , to prevent nearly half of the Amazon rainforest from collapse and that these irreversible consequence for the Amazon and the planet be avoid . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the Amazon be the world ' s large rainforest and make up half of the planet ' s remain tropical forest , home to about three million specie of plant and animal and 1 . 6 million indigenous people ; further note that the forest be the world ' s large natural carbon sink , absorb and store an amount of carbon equivalent to 15 to 20 year of global co2 emission from the atmosphere ; and far declare continue deforestation of the Amazon be contribute to the forest ' s inability to recover from drought , fire and landslide . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage the brazilian Government to protect forest land and end large - scale deforestation , to prevent nearly half of the Amazon rainforest from collapse and that these irreversible consequence for the Amazon and the planet be avoid . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002964 ] petition - Popular Uprising in Iran I present this petition on the popular uprising in Iran on behalf of resident of Southampton North who wish to protest against the violent repression of woman and young people in Iran by the iranian regime . More than 500 of my constituent have also sign an associate petition . these petition note that the atrocity commit have be categorise as crime against humanity by the UN special rapporteur . the petitioner " therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to condemn the iranian Government ' s violent crackdown on protest lead by woman and youth , support democratic movement in Iran and put pressure on the iranian regime to stop the repression . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that in response to protest and anti - regime uprising lead by woman and youth throughout Iran , iranian repressive force have open fire on protestor ; note that more than 750 protestor have be kill include 83 woman and 75 child , as well as more than 30 , 000 protestor arrest ; further note that Amnesty International have report that child detainee have be subject to horrific torture , include beating , flog , electric shock , rape and other sexual violence ; far declare that the regime ' s deliberate poisoning of schoolgirl across Iran be to take revenge on young girl for participate in demonstration , with the number of execution increase to over 400 this year ; further note that the UN Special Rapporteur on Iran have categorise the atrocity during the uprising as crime against Humanity ; and far declare opposition to the killing and arrest of protestor , and support for the iranian people ' s uprising to achieve democracy and freedom . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to condemn the iranian Government ' s violent crackdown on protest lead by woman and youth , support democratic movement in Iran and put pressure on the iranian regime to stop the repression . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002969 ] Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent regard the recommendation of the infected blood inquiry . I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . she have do tremendous work and she have be a motivation for we all , and I thank she for that . there be 100 people that I know of in Northern Ireland await compensation , and with each month that pass , so too do their health fail . the act itself be regrettable , and the continue paralysis in implement the compensation scheme be reprehensible and must be rectify as a priority for this House . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Strangford , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002960 ] I rise to present the petition of my constituent in Worcester . my petitioner include a constituent who lose her mother to this scandal ; a dear friend of mine , who be a long - stand councillor and former chairman of my association , who lose his beloved wife and the mother of his child ; and a constituent who be infect as a child with HIV and hepatitis , but go on to find the tainted blood campaign . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Worcester , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002967 ] I rise to present a petition on behalf of the resident of North East Fife . in common with those present by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and other right hon . and hon . member , the petition relate to the recommendation of the infected blood inquiry . like the hon . member for Strangford , I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for her work on the issue . two of the family directly impact in North East Fife come into my office on Friday to sign the petition . one lose his father to hepatitis C as a result of the scandal , and the other ' s husband be infect as a child at school . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of North East Fife , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002968 ] I be proud to also present a petition to show my support for all those who have be impact and continue to suffer as a result of the infected blood scandal . I pay tribute to the tireless campaign of those affect and the work of my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) in the fight for justice and compensation . this issue be of particular importance to my constituent in Pontypridd , both for those who have get in touch with I to advocate for justice and for those who be sadly victim of the scandal . I have the utmost respect for Gerald Stone , Meinir Elin Gooch , Jodie Sugar , Owain Ll ŷ r Harris and Tony Lane , to name a few . they have wait far too long and they demand justice . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002970 ] I join a number of right hon . and hon . member in present a petition on the same term , on behalf of constituent in Worsley and Eccles South , who be seek justice for family affect by the NHS infect blood scandal . I too pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for her wonderful work . I also pay tribute to my constituent Claire Dixon , Ian Dixon and Olivia Dixon , who be seek justice on behalf of Claire ' s late mother , Nora Worthington , who be infect with HIV through a routine blood transfusion in 1982 and who die of an AIDS - relate illness in 1993 . they , like other family , have wait far too long for redress . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Worsley and Eccles South , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002971 ] Heathrow airport : Western Rail Link Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Paul Holmes . ) I be extremely grateful to your good self , Mr Deputy Speaker , Mr Speaker and the House authority for grant I today ' s Adjournment debate on the western rail link to Heathrow . I be elect to represent the good people of Slough in 2017 . in 2018 , realise the immense importance of this rail link , I establish an all - party parliamentary group with like - minded colleague from across the Chamber . the House will therefore be aware that I have long champion the western rail link to Heathrow , which would link great Western Railway ' s network , and constituent in the Thames Valley region and beyond , to the rest of the world via Heathrow airport . this be not just a project for the Thames Valley or for the south - east of England ; it be a levelling - up project that would benefit local , regional and national economic growth . I wish to place on the record my gratitude to the western rail link to Heathrow stakeholder steering group , Heathrow airport , the Thames Valley chamber of commerce , Great Western Railway , Slough Borough Council , Network Rail , BAE , Transport for London , the Department for Transport , Slough Estates Group , Atkins and other for all their hard work , expertise and invaluable advice to our all - party group over several year . indeed , as eloquently explain by the Thames Valley chamber of commerce , the propose four - mile rail link to London Heathrow airport would connect 20 % of the UK population to within one interchange of our nation ' s main hub airport . this strategic development would facilitate more direct access for traveller , allow constituent to travel direct to Heathrow , eliminate the need to travel first to London Paddington and then back out again . I thank my hon . friend for give way and congratulate he on the work that he have do on this for a number of year . do he appreciate that the project would benefit not just Slough and that area of England , but the west and Wales in particular ? many constituent of mine have do that journey to Paddington and then back out . I wish he well with the project and hope that interest from the Government will be forthcoming . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . he have eloquently put on record how the Welsh Government themselves have strongly support the link . I know that he be a strong champion for his constituent , and he have be do that work on a plethora of issue , but in particular within our all - party group . importantly , great connectivity to Heathrow would bolster job , growth , trade , tourism , education and regeneration . I have be a member of the all - party group since 2018 . do the hon . Member also recognise that the rail link would benefit everybody from Bath to beyond ? it would also have many environmental benefit , as people could choose the public transport option rather than travel by car , which be what many of my constituent do . I thank the hon . member not just for her support and her membership of the APPG , but for her alliteration — as she say , the project will be of huge significance for Bath and beyond . I also want to outline the cross - party composition of our all - party parliamentary group . whether we be member of the Liberal Democrats , the Conservative party , the Labour party or other party , we realise the collective benefit to our constituent and the environmental benefit , which I will elaborate on shortly . I congratulate the hon . member on secure the debate . he make the essential point that this be not just a south - east issue ; it affect Swindon , which I represent , and the western gateway . I rise in my capacity as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the western gateway , which link Wales and the west . we fully support his effort and the work of the Thames Valley chamber of commerce . he be to be commend for his work on this issue and have my full support . I thank the right hon . and learn Member , whose membership of our all - party parliamentary group have give it strength . he illustrate how the benefit will have significant impact in not only the immediate Thames valley region , which of course benefit I , but Wales , the south - west , the midland and the wide south - east . my hon . friend have not yet mention the benefit that the train link would bring to Bristol , but I hope that it will make it easy for people to make the journey . Heathrow have an impact on the local environment , with surface transport play a big role in contribute to air pollution and so on . if an easy train link can dissuade people from the west country from use their car to drive to Heathrow , that would be very advantageous . my hon . friend hit the nail on the head , because this have significant environmental benefit . she have do a great deal of work on the need to reduce our carbon footprint and get our constituent to access our main airport via public transport rather than by car . I add my support for my hon . friend ' s debate . Kingswood do not have a train station , but Bristol station such as Bristol Parkway and Bristol Temple Meads would be well serve by the western rail link . constituent tell I that in some case they be get taxi up to Heathrow . do he also acknowledge that the rail link could open up more area for employment , because it would be a big employer , as well as help more people to get to Heathrow ? I thank my hon . friend , who have be a strong champion for his constituency since be elect . I have the distinct pleasure of converse with many of his constituent while I be out in his area . the constituent of Kingswood do not have a train station , but the benefit of a direct rail link would be that it avoid individual from as far away as Kingswood get a taxi . that would reduce journey time and , as he point out , have a huge economic benefit for the wide region . I thank he for his support . rise — I give way to the co - chair of our all - party parliamentary group . as the vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group , I commend the hon . member , my neighbour and friend , for all the work that he do to make this happen . the rail link be about job , economic growth , boost travel opportunity across the UK and boost Heathrow airport . do he agree that , in the year 2024 , it be almost perverse that passenger come from the west of England and Wales can not travel directly to our major international airport hub ? do he also agree that the rail link will bring huge benefit to London itself ? the hon . Gentleman undersell himself . he be the vice - chair of our all - party parliamentary group , but he have recently be elevate to co - chair , take on the role of the hon . member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) , who be herself elevate to the Government Front Bench . he highlight that the link would benefit people not just in the south - east , the west , Wales and the south - west , but in London , because it would decongest road , as well as London Paddington , as I will explain shortly . rise — I give way to my constituency neighbour . we be in danger of have a love - in here , but I will not disabuse the House of that notion , because across the House , on the Conservative and Opposition Benches , there be agreement on this . my constituent would join this love - in be the western rail link to go ahead , because it would remove congestion from the road of Windsor , as far afield as Ascot , and even in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Bracknell ( James Sunderland ) . I think it be a really good move and one on which the House can unite , because it will help all our constituent , it will help the environment , and , most of all , it will unclog Windsor . I hope that the Minister be hear the unanimity of support — or the love - in , as my constituency neighbour have point out . it be important to decongest our road . People in Windsor and Slough get in their car , or get a taxi , to go to Heathrow — that be predominantly what happen — so it be important that we provide this four - mile rail link . indeed , my Slough constituency , which be home to more UK corporate headquarters than anywhere else outside London , be a huge business hub , and for those key industry leader , this vital four - mile rail link remain the no . 1 infrastructure priority . in fact , it be the no . 1 infrastructure priority for the whole of the Thames valley region . the scheme , which have be identify as a nationally significant infrastructure project by the National Infrastructure Commission , promise to decrease train travel time , offer a consistent service of train in each direction , vastly improve connection from across the great western network , and bring destination within the " golden hour " for foreign direct investor . the western rail link to Heathrow would provide four train per hour to the great western main line ; significantly enhance accessibility for million of people , from Swansea to Swindon , Cardiff to Exeter and reading to Bristol ; offer direct link to Heathrow ; and shed half an hour off many journey time . delivery of the western rail link scheme hold the key to overcome the barrier to growth that currently face the region , and would drive investment and unlock huge economic benefit . accord to analysis from Heathrow airport , the western rail link be project to add £ 800 million to the gross value add , create 42 , 000 new job and facilitate an estimate 20 % shift from road to rail , as many hon . member have highlight . additionally , it promise £ 1 . 5 billion in efficiency saving for business through reduce travel time and cost . when Conservative Ministers announce that they would be build the four - mile western rail link to Heathrow and that it would open in 2020 , the excitement in Wales be such that the then First Minister Rhodri Morgan describe it as " one of the most important announcement in the last 50 year . " but it be yet another broken promise . the Government have invest £ 47 million into plan western rail before the pandemic , and , have commit to it more than a decade ago , it be about time that they build the western rail link to Heathrow for the benefit of the local , regional and national economy . let I outline the environmental benefit that my hon . friend the Member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) and the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) touch on . the extensive benefit of this pivotal rail initiative extend beyond stimulate growth , inward investment and connectivity ; it will also play a crucial part in our carbon reduction effort . the western rail link to Heathrow be a carbon reduction project that will take car off road , reduce carbon emission , and diminish passenger overcrowding at London Paddington . the increase rail option for commuter in the Thames valley region would significantly reduce congestion on some of the UK ' s busy road , include the M4 , M3 and M25 . that would reduce carbon dioxide emission equivalent to those generate by approximately 30 million road mile per year . by help to shift journey from private car to public transport , the western rail link initiative will underpin our transition to net zero and help to deliver the UK ' s climate change and carbon reduction target , as well as be a key support to level up in the region . the proven business case for this project be predicate on a two - runway scenario . if a third runway be to be build , the scheme would become critical to provide surface access to the airport . the western rail link to Heathrow be a scheme of considerable importance to hon . member in various region of the UK and their constituent , as we have hear from the invaluable contribution to today ' s debate . indeed , there have be various apology from hon . member who hope to attend this debate , include my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) , a former treasurer of our APPG , and my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , a former vice - chair . they have also express their support for the scheme , but as we enter the 12th year since the Government first commit to build this vital four - mile rail link , disappointingly , not a single spade have yet be dig into the ground . despite the Government ' s failure to deliver on their promise , there remain robust cross - party support for the scheme in Parliament , as well as from business chamber across the UK . the all - party parliamentary group on the western rail link to Heathrow be a strong advocate for the economic merit of this critical infrastructure and its importance in enhance the connectivity of resident of the Thames valley region to the UK ' s main airport via rail . it be in the interest of all hon . member to deliver tangible result for our constituent , and as mp represent diverse constituency , we be all acutely aware of the considerable advantage that our constituent stand to gain from this project . I commend the leadership of the Thames Valley chamber of commerce ; in partnership with key stakeholder , include our APPG , and without any public subsidy , it be co - develop solution , and sustain its effort to ensure that the project remain at the forefront of all mind . that private sector commitment should speak volume to all of we in this esteemed House . it be the private sector that have subsidise , and continue to subsidise , the Department for Transport ' s work . that should be a wake - up call to the Government , show they that this rail project simply need to be fund and build . there be a significant financial commitment from Heathrow airport prior to the pandemic , but the Government ' s lethargic approach over the year have squander that vital investment opportunity , bring we all back to square one . the Government must go beyond the hollow word of support speak over several year — word that minister have fail to take tangible action on . they must finally step up and make the financial commitment that will ensure the timely delivery of their promise western rail link to Heathrow . just a few month ago , the Minister assure I in the Chamber that " the Government remain committed to improve rail access to Heathrow " — [ Official Report , 26 October 2023 ; Vol . 738 , c . 955 . ] he claim to " recognise the importance " of the western rail link . I convey my gratitude to he for recently take invaluable time out of his day to meet member of our APPG , but the shocking fact remain that in the 12 year since the Government first pledge to fund this vital piece of infrastructure , not a single spade have hit the ground . do the hon . Member agree that there be strong cross - party consensus across the House , which include colleague I have speak to from Wales , western England and the midland ? it be great when the House come together . they be all as one in want this project to happen . do he share my hope that , in a minute , the Minister will outline at the Dispatch Box the precondition for the Government take the bold step of underwrite the project ? that be very eloquently put , and that be what we hope for from the Minister , who be , I know , a good chap and a great champion of rail , but unfortunately for several year we have face an impasse . I have be a Member of this esteemed House for the last seven year , and there have be lot of promise . indeed , my first ever Prime Minister ' s question to my constituency neighbour the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) be on this very issue . there have be many promise , but we be yet to see a timeline , and I do hope we will hear one from the Minister . indeed , that be what the business community be expect . in conclusion , the importance of build the western rail link to Heathrow can not be overstate . it would open up significant opportunity for growth , and enhance the travel experience and connectivity to Heathrow . the scheme will bring evidence return on investment to the Exchequer , help boost the UK ' s productivity , and improve economic stability . after 14 year of consecutive conservative Governments , and the plethora of broken promise and economic failure along the way , we need — my Slough constituent need — this vital stimulus more than ever . twelve year after the Government first commit to funding and build the western rail link , we be unfortunately no close to the goal . when will the Government stop obfuscate , and provide the people of my Slough constituency , the wide Thames valley region and beyond with a clear timeline for when we can expect the project to be finally set in action ? we have have various consultation over the year , we have run through various rigmarole , and it seem as if we be get to the promise land , but we be still very far away from it . the western rail link initiative be about more than just improve journey time . it signify the strengthening of UK - wide and global link , and of our Union ; a firm Government commitment to level up ; significant step towards reduce carbon emission ; and the unlocking of immense potential . I begin by congratulate the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) on secure this debate — or cross - party love - in , as he put it , albeit with a few dig into my heart — on a western rail link to Heathrow . he have be a strong supporter of this scheme for some time , particularly , as he reference , in his capacity as chair of the western rail link to Heathrow all - party parliamentary group . I know that the scheme be of great importance to he , his constituent , the hon . member who have intervene , and their constituent . I turn first to Heathrow airport , which have a key role to play in boost our global connectivity and the UK economy . it be rank as the second busy airport in the world for international passenger in 2023 , handle an estimate total of 79 million passenger travel to 214 destination across 84 country on 89 airline . in 2024 , this number be expect to increase to 82 . 4 million passenger . the Government remain supportive of airport expansion where it can be deliver within our environmental obligation . however , we have always be clear that Heathrow expansion remain a private sector project that must meet strict criterion on air quality , noise and climate change , as well as be privately finance , affordable and deliver in the good interest of consumer . the Government also recognise the economic benefit that airport can bring to their area . increasingly , airport be become regional transport hub that support multiple business , labour market and population centre . reliable and efficient surface access connection be an important part of achieve that . the Government be commit to improve access to Heathrow airport in way that work for passenger and address decarbonisation objective . for example , the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the Elizabeth line service now run from Reading , through Maidenhead , on to Paddington and through central London to the City , Canary Wharf , Shenfield and Abbey Wood far in the east . passenger from the west on the Elizabeth line can change at Hayes and Harlington for service to Heathrow airport , and in a few year ' time , they will be able to connect to the airport , once the Old Oak Common hs2 interchange station be build and become operational ; that will become the large new station we will have build . that will enable even fast journey time and more connection than ever . these improvement be on top of Piccadilly line and Heathrow Express service , which connect the airport with London ' s public transport network , enable journey from across the country . although I have so far talk about connection for passenger , I appreciate that the issue be also important to local stakeholder , include those in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . it be an issue not only for passenger , but for the many thousand of people who work in and around Heathrow or provide service to the airport , many of whom will be constituent of Members who speak this afternoon . the airport provide direct employment to 76 , 000 people . it be important that the transport network can get those people to work , as well as million of air passenger away to their destination . let I turn to the western rail link to Heathrow scheme and the question of Government support . we have always recognise the potential benefit of the proposal , as the hon . Gentleman mention . the western rail link scheme propose a four - mile link between the great western main line and Heathrow airport . it be promote by local authority and business group in the area . it be important to note that the Government ' s position have always be that any Government funding would be subject to agreement on a significant third - party financial contribution . the position pre - pandemic be that only 50 % of the cost would be fund by Government . moreover , the scheme complement the plan construction of a new third runway and the expansion of Heathrow , form part of the proposal to deliver well surface access and address the environmental impact of a busy airport — the airport would of course have be busy if the third runway have be build . however , Heathrow Airport Holdings Ltd be now not actively pursue expansion , give its focus on recovery follow the impact of the pandemic on the aviation sector . that have of course have an impact on the financial contribution from the private sector . as I understand it , promoter — primarily the Thames Valley chamber of commerce — be keen to revive the scheme as a majority privately fund proposal . official continue to work with stakeholder to support they in update the business case for the scheme . this work be focus on update the design for the scheme , refresh the cost estimate to take account of inflationary pressure over the last few year , and understand whether there be demand , give change in travel pattern follow the pandemic and the current economic context . I expect to receive an update on that work later in the year . the Government remain committed to invest in rail , as demonstrate by the Prime Minister ' s Network North announcement , which detail an unprecedented number of commitment . we be take forward affordable yet transformative growth plan to increase connectivity and capacity on the railway , and have spend £ 2 billion a year upgrade the railway across England and Wales , include reopen previously close section of the network . give the hon . Gentleman ' s point about rail investment , I remind he that since 2010 , the Government — the taxpayer — have put forward over £ 100 billion of investment in rail . of course , as rail Minister , I be very proud of that and support it . however , the significant change to travel pattern after the pandemic and the challenging fiscal environment rightly require consideration of the rail infrastructure investment portfolio . just run our railway over the last few year have cost every single household in this country £ 1 , 500 , so it be absolutely right for taxpayer that we ensure that all scheme be affordable . the prioritisation of scheme and the allocation of fund in the portfolio be manage and update on an ongoing basis . I thank the hon . member once more for secure this debate . heathrow airport be an important international travel hub for the country and one of the busy airport in the world , as I have say . that be why this Government recognise the airport ' s requirement for good surface access connection . I thank the Minister for his response . he refer to " later in the year " . we do not seem to have a timeline , or urgency . because of the lethargic approach take by his predecessor prior to the pandemic , a significant contribution from the private sector be not realise . we then have the pandemic and go back to square one . can the Minister outline a more precise timeline than just " later in the year " ? it be important to recognise what have occur over the past few year . first , we have have the pandemic , which mean that rail finance be 80 % of what they be pre - pandemic . an awful lot of money be be put in . when we talk about deliver new railway , we have to take into account how to fund the exist railway . other matter have change . as a member of the Transport Committee , I be heavily involve in the scrutiny of Heathrow . the decision of the House be that the third runway could proceed , but after the pandemic , that decision move . a lot of the benefit of the scheme be wide , as the hon . Gentleman have detail , and I support they , but they also go towards the mitigation that a third runway would need . obviously a third runway be now look as though it will not go ahead , which make the business case for the scheme that bit hard . to reassure the hon . Gentleman , I hope that the case can be make , fund from the private sector be find , and we can give positive news to he and all the other member who have speak in this debate , and who champion this project . I end by give he another commitment . if he , the member of the all - party parliamentary group and the Thames Valley chamber of commerce want to meet I , we can set out a timeline for the decision and what need to be do . I can set out what be require from a private sector financing perspective , because I need to know that the money will be there if we be to do the work within Government . let we all work together , and let we sit down and have that meeting . I will be open and transparent with he and other member , as I always be , and we can work out whether we can get this project deliver . it have great merit , and I like to see project like this , where the private sector and the taxpayer work together to succeed for the betterment of the whole country . question put and agree to . House adjourn .