Oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . the 2023 legacy Act be reject by our domestic court , as well as by victim and survivor across Northern Ireland , not least because it propose give immunity from prosecution for the most appalling terrorist crime . any incoming Government would have have to fix this mess , and that be what this Government be seek to do with the Northern Ireland Troubles Bill , which we publish yesterday . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer and for his remark in yesterday ' s statement about the professionalism , bravery and sacrifice of our armed force and veteran , include those who live in my constituency of Basingstoke , in their role in Northern Ireland , across the UK and abroad . what discussion have he have with veteran , the Defence Secretary and the Minister for Veterans and People on the new provision and protection in the new legislation ? I have have many such discussion , as I indicate in my statement to the House yesterday , and those have inform the package of veteran protection contain in the Bill , which the Government have set out . when the unlawful legacy Act shut down 200 investigation into the death of british soldier , people across the country , include in my constituency , will have think that be desperately unfair , and not just on those individual but on the family and victim . can the Secretary of State assure I and my constituent that under the new legacy Act there will be opportunity for those victim finally to get the justice they deserve ? there certainly will , because with the commission as it be now and with the commission as it will be reform by the trouble Bill , any incident relate to the trouble anywhere in the United Kingdom can be refer into the commission . the M62 coach bombing , the Kingsmill massacre and the Warrenpoint massacre be all currently the subject of investigation by the commission . many family be desperate for answer about what happen to their love one . that be often not about want to take legal action ; they just want to know . under this new Bill , how quickly will that be deliver for those family ? how quickly will they get the information that they have wait decade to receive ? I know from my discussion with the commission that it be work hard with the 100 or so case that it be already deal with to go through that process and start produce report for family . we know that many family have decide not to engage with the commission because they object to the legacy Act and , in particular , to the immunity it be propose to give . that be why we be remove that . I encourage more family to come forward , because I know that the commission and its staff be determined to try to provide the answer that those family seek . the Secretary of State ' s allegation about the legacy Act rest on a fiction that the Labour Government have not already hand out amnesty to all those terrorist killer . two fact need to be put in front of the House . one be from the Good Friday agreement , which " put in place mechanism to provide for an accelerated programme for the release of prisoner … convict of scheduled offence " . that be one half of the amnesty . the other half be the comfort letter , and the right place to look there be the judge ' s rule in the Downey case , which shoot down any future prosecution . the judge say — I will read it carefully — that there be a " public interest in hold official of the state to promise they have make in full understanding of what be involve in the bargain . hence I have conclude that this be one of those rare case in which , in the particular circumstance , it offend the court ' s sense of justice and propriety to be ask to try the defendant . " in other word , it be an amnesty , whether the Government like it or not . on the first issue that the right hon . Gentleman raise , for anyone who be serve a sentence for a trouble - relate offence , part of the Good Friday agreement be that they be release after two year . the people of Northern Ireland vote for that by about 70 % . it be part of the agreement . on his second point , there be specific issue in the case of Mr Downey , because he have be give a letter that say he be not want when in fact he be . that be why that prosecution could not proceed . the right hon . Gentleman ' s point be undermine by the fact that Mr Downey — this be a matter of public record — be currently face prosecution for two count of murder in 1972 . it therefore can not be the case that any letter he receive give he an amnesty . I call the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . a number of the core provision of the previous Government ' s legacy Act have be deem by the Northern Ireland court to be incompatible with our human right obligation . do the Secretary of State agree that it be little wonder that the legislation be so widely opposed , and do this not make the task of repeal and replace it even more important ? it certainly do make it more important , because it be a piece of legislation that have not work and do not command support in Northern Ireland . if legislation be pass in this House that do not command support in Northern Ireland , how on earth can we expect the answer that family be seek , which the right hon . member for Skipton and Ripon ( Sir Julian Smith ) refer to a moment ago , to be provide ? we have a responsibility to give more people in Northern Ireland confidence in the new arrangement so that they will come forward to get the answer they have be seek . the Secretary of State have do much to talk up the alleged special provision in relation to ex - servicemen , but legally be it not the case that any such provision would have to apply across the board ? if I be wrong about that , will the Secretary of State now tell the House which special provision apply exclusively and only to serviceman ? the provision that apply exclusively and only to service personnel be : first , the arrangement to prevent cold calling — a protocol will be agree with the commission in relation to that — and secondly , not be require to rehearse the history when the Ministry of Defence would be perfectly capable of provide that information . the hon . and learn Gentleman , be a distinguished lawyer , will know that , in respect to other arrangement for witness , the law require that they be available to all witness . many family have be struggle and campaign for year for truth and justice , and they be now hopeful that we can get to the truth . we know that MI5 admit only a few month ago that it have not give all of the file over to Operation Kenova . I be also aware that there be many Northern Ireland Office and MOD file that have not yet go through the freedom of information process and be therefore not available to the National Archives . will the Secretary of State commit today to ensure that those file be available to the new legacy commission ? the legacy commission have the right to receive all information that it require to do its job . we be propose in the legislation to amend the arrangement for disclosure , to require the Secretary of State to conduct a balance exercise , which be not in the previous Act , and to require the Secretary of State to give reason , in line with standard that apply across the UK . in addition , any decision of the Secretary of State be open to be judicially review . those be important change that I hope will give people in Northern Ireland great confidence . the Secretary of State say yesterday that his new legacy commission will not relitigate previous investigation involve veteran unless there be " compelling reason " to do so . that be reinforce in clause 30 of the Bill that have now be publish . to remove scope from opportunistic lawyer , would he consider define far more closely than he have do up to this point precisely what he mean by " compelling reason " ? that be no doubt an issue that the House will discuss as the Bill be consider in detail . I think that " compelling " and " essential " be a pretty high bar . it will be for the commission to interpret that , but no doubt we will continue to discuss it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . far to the Secretary of State ' s comment on the adequacy of the legacy and reconciliation Act , I would like to turn to the role of the european convention on human right . as he will be aware , the Leader of the Opposition seem more interested in the view of the Member for Mar - a - Lago and Moscow than the vision of her predecessor Winston Churchill and be now call for withdrawal from the echr . may I therefore ask the Secretary of State what assessment his Department have make as to the effect that cease to be a signatory of the convention would have on the Good Friday agreement , the Windsor protocol , the new legacy framework and Northern Ireland ' s institution in general ? the Government be absolutely committed to the european convention on human right . I very much regret that the current Opposition have move away from that historic support , which go right back to Winston Churchill , as the hon . Member have set out . it be highly irresponsible to suggest pick away at one of the essential foundation of the Good Friday agreement . yesterday , in an atypical fit of pique , the Secretary of State fail to answer my question as to whether the Attorney General , Lord Hermer , have be exclude from the legislation or have personally recuse himself . so today I have an easy question . give that the Secretary of State yesterday highlight the protection for veteran in this legislation , could he tell the House which page , which clause or which line use the word " veteran " ? the clause that would implement the protection in relation to veteran and other be clause 30 , 31 , 36 , 51 , 54 , 56 , 69 and 84 . hear , hear ! Labour Members may cheer , but not one of those clause refer to veteran . those be not protection for veteran ; they be protection for everyone — paragraph 20 of the explanatory note show that what I be say be true — and many of they be already available in the criminal justice system . it be a mirage . to be collegiate , the Secretary of State have spend many year criticise the legacy Act of 2023 and previous effort on the basis that they command no political support whatsoever across the party of Northern Ireland . if there be agreement across Northern Ireland ' s Members of Parliament on amendment during the passage of his legislation , will he agree to those amendment ? the right hon . Gentleman invite I to speculate on amendment that I have not yet see . as I indicate to the House yesterday , I want to work in as collegiate a way as possible in try to take the legislation through . in respect to the first part of his question , however , I would say that the only reason the protection and clause I just read out be in the Bill be because of the Government ' s determination to treat our veteran fairly . Intertrade UK what step he be take to ensure that Intertrade UK operate independently and transparently . as part of " safeguard the Union " , Intertrade UK be establish to advise on and promote trade and investment across the UK . the term of reference and work programme be publish on gov . uk . the NIO provide secretariat support , but Intertrade UK be free to submit advice and recommendation to the Government as it see fit . what indicator be the Secretary of State use to measure growth in trade within the UK internal market ? will he commit to publicise an independent assessment of the barrier that the Northern Ireland protocol be have on trade within the UK and Northern Ireland , which I believe affect the ability of Intertrade UK to fully promote trade within the UK and operate independently ? as the hon . Gentleman will be aware , a range of organisation , include Intertrade UK , be look at the impact of the Windsor framework . we have recently have Lord Murphy ' s report , for example , which the Government be commit to publishing . the House of Lords Northern Ireland Affairs Committee publish a report on the same subject only this morning . do the Secretary of State agree that one of the major deterrent to investment and growth in Northern Ireland be the absence , 20 month after the restoration of Stormont , of a publish investment strategy from the Executive with any sort of a road map for investor or business on the infrastructure , road and housing development that the Executive will invest in ? do he agree that , in the absence of that strategy , we be fly blind in investment term ? have he have any discussion with the Executive about that ? like my hon . friend , I look forward to see the investment strategy publish . Northern Ireland have a great opportunity under the Windsor framework because of the dual market access , which no other part of the United Kingdom have . for those look to invest to trade with both the UK and the European Union , there be no well place to come and do that but Northern Ireland . Defence Industrial Strategy what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the defence industrial strategy on Northern Ireland . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the defence industrial strategy on Northern Ireland . in this role , I be committed to support all people across Northern Ireland . from its business to its community group , there be much to champion . I will do all that I can to build on the excellent work of my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) . the defence industrial strategy be great news for Northern Ireland . we be commit to economic growth that people can feel in their pocket , and the £ 250 million allocate to five defence growth deal , include one in Northern Ireland , will see its booming defence sector thrive . Airbus , which manufacture satellite in my Stevenage constituency , will soon integrate the civil aircraft wing business at the historical Shorts site in Belfast , close to where Thales test its satellite and produce vital missile for Ukraine . will the Minister work with colleague across Government and the Northern Ireland Executive to ensure that the defence industrial strategy be complement by the industrial strategy ' s advanced manufacturing sector plan so as to maximise skill , innovation and growth ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the rich expertise in Northern Ireland ' s defence sector , which bring benefit right across the UK , include to Stevenage . I assure he that the Secretary of State and I will work across Government and with the Executive to ensure a join - up approach that benefit Northern Ireland . I be incredibly proud of our naval engineering history in the Black Country , include at company such as Somers Forge in Halesowen and Brooks Forgings in Cradley Heath . I be delighted that this Labour Government be increase defence spending to level never see under the previous Government . do the Minister agree that that investment in Northern Ireland , at place such as Harland & Wolff , will not just benefit the local economy there but the supply chain all across the country ? my hon . friend be right . I warmly welcome this investment and I know he be rightly proud of the defence expertise in his constituency . back by this Labour Government increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % , Harland & Wolff be build the next generation of support ship for our Royal Navy . we be safeguard job , skill and our future security . I welcome both the Minister to his place and the defence growth deal . do he agree that he now need to work with the Northern Ireland Executive to ensure that the supply chain in Northern Ireland extend beyond Harland & Wolff and the great Belfast area , so that everyone in Northern Ireland can benefit from what be potentially a life - change development for industry there ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his warm word . he be right that we need to work across Northern Ireland to ensure that the life - change investment he mention be feel throughout , and I will make sure that happen . may I welcome the Minister to his place as well ? will he ensure that there be that co - work across the Northern Ireland Executive and the Ministry of Defence with regard to the Executive ' s investment strategy , which be also integral to the defence industrial strategy , and that the NIE will work to remove any blockage that would prevent the two be merge ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his warm word . I will meet Executive Ministers in Northern Ireland next week to discuss this and other matter . I will ensure that we remove any blockage that we can , and that we do so by work together . Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 : replacement what step he be take to replace the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . what step he be take to replace the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . what step he be take to replace the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . the Government be commit to repeal and replace the legacy Act with new arrangement that seek to command great confidence in Northern Ireland . yesterday we publish the Northern Ireland Troubles Bill and a draft remedial order to do just that . yesterday the Secretary of State announce this Labour Government ' s new Northern Ireland Troubles Bill . despite all the justification for the Bill , it still mean one thing : veteran , many of whom be elderly , be drag back through the court . do the Secretary of State think that be an acceptable way to treat those people who bravely serve and defend our country ? the hon . Gentleman say " drag back " to court . the only circumstance in which a veteran , or anyone else , appear in court be if they be charge with an offence . he will know perfectly well what the figure show about prosecution in the 27 year since the Good Friday agreement . here we be talk about coroner ' inquest . a small number will be restart because they be already in train and be stop by the last legacy Act . the rest will go into the sifting process govern by the Solicitor General . we think that we have a fair and reasonable framework that we will put in place to ensure that veteran be protect and properly look after . on 25 September , the Prime Minister assure the BBC that veteran would receive protection not afford to paramilitary , so can the Secretary of State confirm which of the statutory protection will apply solely to veteran ? or be it the case that they will also extend to paramilitary ? I will give the hon . gentleman one example , which involve the representation of veteran on the statutory advisory group that will be establish , draw on the experience of Operation Kenova , allow the voice of veteran to be hear . this will be cover by clause 8 of the legislation . one of the concern around drag veteran through lawfare and our court be the effect on Army recruitment , so what be the Secretary of State ' s reaction to Colonel Nick Kitson , the son of General Sir Frank Kitson , say : " how can anyone volunteer to put their life on the line for a government — indeed a nation — that do not have their back ? " I meet many cadet who be very keen to join the armed force , and we should pay tribute to all who be offer their service to the nation in defence of the realm . we should not talk down the importance of that recruitment effort . if anybody look in the round at what we be put forward , they will think it be reasonable . I have meet many veteran who argue — as the Veterans Commissioners have say — that they be not look for immunity under the law , which be what the legacy Act give ; they be look for fairness under it , and that be what we will provide . do my right hon . friend agree that people who join the British Army not only recognise that they have to abide by the law , but expect the Government to have their back and offer they that fairness ? can he offer an assurance that people who serve in Northern Ireland will be give the fairness that they expect , and that this be a government that genuinely have their back ? I be happy to give my hon . friend that assurance . to take another example of the protection , it be put to we by veteran in our discussion that no veteran should have to return to Northern Ireland to engage with legacy process , and we be legislate for that in the Bill . I call the shadow Secretary of State . this morning , unusually , I congratulate the Government on have admit a terrible mistake . early this year , we on this side of the House vote against Labour ' s draft remedial order , which would have allow Gerry Adams to sue the taxpayer , so we welcome the fact that Labour amend that order yesterday . but the question remain : why do it ever bring forward such a ridiculous policy in the first place ? I hope that the hon . Gentleman will not only offer congratulation but continue these discussion about legacy matter in that spirit . when I say I be prepared to listen , I mean it . I would just point out to he that the problem arise because of the Supreme Court judgment , as he be well aware , and that for just over two year , the last Government could not find a solution . the one that be put in place do not work because it be find to be incompatible . I have reflect on the point that be make in representation , and this decision will ensure that there be no gap , as it have be refer to . we have find a mechanism that we believe will achieve what section 46 and 47 fail to do . I invite the Secretary of State to look at his own legislation , because clause 89 and 90 be markedly similar to the section that we leave he . we on this side of the House may have win the battle over this , but we still have not win the war to protect our veteran from vexatious complaint . be it not the truth that if it have not be for month of campaigning by the Conservatives , the shadow Defence team , the medium and report from Policy Exchange , which may now have save the taxpayer hundred of million of pound , Labour would have stick to its plan and allow Mr Adams and his comrade to sue anyway ? I indicate to the House some month ago that we be determined to find a mean of deal with the Supreme Court judgment in 2020 on the subject of the Carltona principle . that be what our propose legislation will seek to remedy . we think it be a well formulation than section 46 and 47 , and I look forward to the hon . Gentleman ' s support in pass it . UK Internal Market what step he be take to maintain Northern Ireland ' s place in the UK internal market . the Government be commit to safeguard Northern Ireland ' s place in the UK internal market and to implement the Windsor framework in good faith . the internal market scheme enable trader to move good from Great Britain into Northern Ireland tariff - free and , since May , with significantly reduce paperwork and check . it be a disgrace that the " safeguard the Union " provision severely restrict trade between Great Britain and Northern Ireland , bind the Province to 300 area of EU law over which the people have no say . will the Secretary of State take step to remove what be leave of this damaging international trade border within our own nation and restore the birthright of the people of Northern Ireland as equal citizen of this United Kingdom ? I say to the hon . Gentleman and those who advocate that we should leave the European Union : this be the consequence of it . there be an open border and two different jurisdiction — how be we go to deal with trade in those circumstance ? secondly , the good be flow ; the good be move . look at the evidence : the Northern Ireland economy in the second quarter grow by 2 % . that be not indicative of a problem . I call the shadow Minister . on 26 November last year , the Health Secretary assure this House that the Tobacco and Vapes Bill will apply in Northern Ireland . the Secretary of State will know that the age - base sale ban affect the placement of tobacco product on the market and so be potentially in breach of the EU ' s tobacco product directive , so can the Secretary of State repeat the Health Secretary ' s assurance and also tell we whether the Government have confirm with the European Union that the ban will stand in Northern Ireland ? it be certainly the Government ' s intention that the ban will apply in Northern Ireland , because it be very important that young people all over the United Kingdom be protect in the way in which the Bill seek . Speaker ' s Statement before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I welcome to the Gallery the honourable Speaker of the Parliament of the Republic of Fiji and the Chairman of the Parliament of Ukraine . member will also know that today mark the fourth anniversary of the death of our friend and colleague , Sir David Amess , who be murder in his Southend West constituency in 2021 . Sir David be a long - serve Member of Parliament , respect and like by member across the House and dedicate to his constituency . we remember he fondly . Oral Answers to Questions Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 15 October . as you have just say , Mr Speaker , today mark four year since the horrific murder of Sir David Amess . Sir David be much love across the House , kind and generous , and I know it be a huge loss to many member opposite . may he rest in peace . as we remember Sir David and our friend Jo Cox , of course , I want to take this opportunity to condemn unequivocally the death threat make against the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) . I know the whole House will welcome the justice that have be do . whatever our disagreement , we be all parliamentarian , and I will not stand for violence or threat against our democracy . Mr Speaker , on that point , may I update the House on the China spy case ? I be deeply disappointed by the outcome . we want to see prosecution . Mr Speaker , I know just how seriously , rightly , that you take these matter . national security will always be the first priority of this Government , and we will always defend against espionage . in recent week , baseless accusation have be put about by the party opposite . let I set out the fact . the relevant period be when these offence take place . that be under the Conservative Government between the year of 2021 and 2023 . that period be bookende by the integrated review of 2021 — the beginning of the period — and the refresh of that review in 2023 , set out their policy . these statement of government policy be very carefully word to not describe China as an enemy . instead — [ interruption . ] Mr Stuart , somebody who be on the Speaker ' s panel , and who I have tell once before , should know well . do not question my judgment . I think it be important that the Prime Minister tell the House first rather than somewhere else . please , this be very important to I and to the House . I take it seriously , so I do not need any more side comment . the review of ' 21 and the refresh of ' 23 be very carefully word to not describe China as an enemy . instead , they state that they would " increase … national security protection " where China pose " a threat " and that the then Government would " engage … with China " to " leave room " open for " constructive and predictable relation " . the deputy National Security Adviser , Matt Collins , set out the then Government ' s position in a substantive witness statement in 2023 , which be subsequently supplement by two further short statement . the Cabinet Secretary assure I that the dnsa faithfully set out the policy of the then Tory Government . I know at first hand that the dnsa be a civil servant of the utmost integrity , and those Opposition Members who work with he , I be sure , would agree with that assessment . under this government , no Minister or special adviser play any role in the provision of evidence . I can not say what the position be of the previous Government in relation to the involvement of Ministers or special adviser . if the Leader of the Opposition know the answer to that question , and I suspect that she do , I invite she to update the House . last night , the Crown Prosecution Service clarify that , in its view , the decision whether to publish the witness statement of the dnsa be for the Government . I therefore carefully consider this question this morning , and after legal advice , I have decide to publish the witness statement . give the information contain , we will conduct a short process , but I want to make it clear that I intend to publish the witness statement in full . to be clear , have the Conservatives be quick in update our legislation — a review that start in 2015 — these individual could have be prosecute and we would not be where we be now . I be happy to answer any question on this . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . last week I visit Rayner , a world - lead provider of cataract solution base in Worthing , a winner of this year ' s King ' s Award for Enterprise for innovation , and a fantastic employer of local apprentice . I welcome the Government ' s ambition to get two third of our young people into an apprenticeship , further education or university . what will the Prime Minister do to ensure that every young person in East Worthing and Shoreham have the skill they need to thrive ? we want a country where young people be support , where the quality of teaching be raise and where every skilled apprentice be value and respect . we have set a new target of two third of young people to be in an apprenticeship or university . that will smash the glass ceiling and renew our country . we have support this with a record £ 3 billion budget for more apprenticeship , more technical college and guarantee training , apprenticeship or work for all 18 to 21 - year - old . I call the Leader of the Opposition . Mr Speaker , thank you for mark four year since the terrible murder of Sir David Amess . I know the whole House will want to join I in remember our former colleague . he be very much still in our heart and mind . the way he die remind we that the security of Members and this Parliament be paramount , so it concern we all that the case against two people spy on member of this House have collapse . it be simply unbelievable . exactly as I expect , the Prime Minister have to be drag out at the top of pmq to give a statement that answer no question . [ laughter . ] I don ' t know what they be laugh at ; we be talk about the security of this Parliament . he have to be drag out only to repeat more obfuscation . it be simply unbelievable that he be try to say that the last Government do not classify China as a threat , so I will refresh his memory . in 2021 , the previous Government ' s integrated review describe China as " the big state - base threat to the UK ' s economic security . " in 2024 , the then Minister for Security say from the Dispatch Box that China pose a threat . but let we leave aside the Government . in November 2022 , the director general of MI5 classify China as a threat in his remark . how be it possible that the Government fail to provide the evidence that the CPS need to prosecute ? the substantive evidence be provide in 2023 by the previous Government . that be when the witness statement be submit . I be go to disclose it ; member will all be able to read it . the substantive evidence be write , disclose and submit in 2023 , under the previous Government . I note that the Leader of the Opposition do not indicate whether Ministers be involve in that at the time . the Leader of the Opposition question what be in the refresh review of 2021 and 2023 . let I be clear : the then Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , who be sit on the Opposition Front Bench , give a speech at Mansion House one month after the arrest . it be call " our position on China " and set out the Government ' s policy . he say in that speech that sum up China as a " threat " in " one word " would be " impossible , impractical and — most importantly — unwise . " he be Foreign Secretary at the time . it be not just the right hon . member for Braintree . the Leader of the Opposition be Business Secretary at the time . in September 2023 — the relevant year — she say : " we certainly should not be describe China as a foe " . it be worth look up the word " foe " in the dictionary . it do not end there . in September 2024 , she say : " I have shy away from call China a threat " . she be play politic with national security . the Prime Minister can read the beginning of a quote , but let I finish that quote . at the end of the quote that he just read out , I do describe China as a threat . but his whataboutery neglect the fact that the spy be charge under a Conservative Government and let off under Labour . the Prime Minister have not answer any question . on Monday , the Security Minister repeatedly tell the House that Ministers do not take decision and that it be the deputy National Security Adviser who have full freedom . be the Government seriously say that only one man — the deputy National Security Adviser — have anything to do with this failure ? be that Prime Minister seriously say that the deputy do not discuss with the National Security Adviser , the Home Secretary or anyone in Downing Street ? be the Prime Minister seriously say that ? yes , and let I explain why . first , the case be charge under the last government , accord to the evidence submit under that Government , who set out their policy position . what be on issue in the trial be not the position of the current Government , but the position of the last government . they carefully avoid describe China as an enemy because that be their policy at the time . as far as the position under this Government be concern , no Minister or special adviser be involve . I will double - check this — [ interruption . ] this be important . after the charge decision , the prosecution be very careful about who would then see the witness evidence . I will double - check exactly what instruction be take , but I can be absolutely clear that no Minister be involve , no special adviser be involve in this . I be as assure as I can be that the prosecution be say that it would be the witness only who would be involve in short update to the evidence that be submit under the previous Government . the end of the answer be different from the beginning of the answer . what on earth be the point of we have a lawyer rather than a leader as the Prime Minister if he can not even get the law right on a matter of national security ? he keep go back to the CPS . the CPS have say that it be satisfied that it be right to charge in August 2024 . the Sunday Times report that Jonathan Powell , the Prime Minister ' s National Security Adviser , convene a secret meeting to discuss the security consequence of the China spy trial . do that meeting happen , or be the Sunday Times make it up ? the right hon . Lady be clearly not a lawyer or a leader . the problem for she be that I do actually understand the law , and I know what have to be prove . I have also look at the evidence that be put in under the last government in relation to this case . there be a meeting in September ; that do not involve the National Security Adviser discuss the evidence in any way . one further point : the final statement in this case be submit in August 2025 . there be no further submission of evidence , one way or the other , after any discussion in September . this be a red herring — a completely scurrilous allegation make by the Leader of the Opposition . the Prime Minister have now twice directly contradict the word of his Security Minister . they can not both be right . the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee could not get any answer from the Security Minister . the CPS say that it be satisfied that the decision to charge the case in April 2024 — not August — be correct on the basis of where the law stand at that time . this be a matter of fact , not a matter of what the previous Government have think , or of the case not meet a legal test — it do . something must have change when the charge be bring and when the case collapse . the charge be bring under the Conservatives and collapse under Labour . will the Prime Minister tell we what change , and what collapse the case ? I have say that I will publish the witness statement in full . the whole House will then see exactly what be set out in 2023 in the substantive witness statement , and exactly what be set out in the two supplementary witness statement . the right hon . Lady will then realise that what she have just say be entirely baseless . the CPS have say in the clear term that this prosecution be drop because this government do not provide the statement it expect . why should we believe a man who at the last Prime Minister ' s question say that he have full confidence in the good friend of a convict paedophile ? forgive we if we do not trust a word he say . this all stink of a cover up . give his statement early , will the Prime Minister publish today not just the Government witness statement , but also the meeting minute , and all the correspondence that he have with the CPS ? let I be clear : the only process I want to go through be in relation to some of the individual in the statement to make sure that they know that this be come up . I can assure the House that there be no substantive delay here . rise — I know this be of acute concern to a number of people . I will have the statement out in full . there be a bit of proper process that I need to go through — the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) will understand why that be necessary — and then they will be publish in full . the right hon . Lady ask about minute etc . there be the usual rule and process for Government . I remind she that the substantive issue in this case be discuss at meeting under the previous Government , so the Opposition be ask I to disclose the discussion that they have in relation to the witness statement in the first place . Mr Speaker , you deserve well , and this House deserve well , than the evasive answer that we have have from the Prime Minister . even the former Cabinet Secretary Lord Butler have accuse the Government of be " economical with the truth " on this issue . the Prime Minister can not tell we why Jonathan Powell have a secret meeting , when the Security Minister say he have no involvement the case . he can not tell we why his Government do not provide evidence that China be a threat , and I suspect that the statement will not prove that either . he be blame his civil servant , the medium and the last government . he can not explain why he could not see this case through . he should have see this case through . let I be clear about what have happen : a serious case involve national security have collapse because this Government be too weak to stand up to China . if the Prime Minister can not protect the member of this House , what do that say about his ability to protect this country ? the case do not proceed because the policy of the past Government do not meet the test that be necessary . that be the long and the short of it . far from evade , I have say that I will disclose the full witness statement , and set out exactly what be in they , and exactly what the subsequent statement say . the allegation that somehow they be change — that the first and second statement be different — be completely and utterly unfounded . this be a pathetic spectacle . instead of take responsibility for the fact that they fail to update the law — the review into the legislation be in 2015 — the Conservatives take eight year to change the law . have they do that more quickly , this case would have proceed . it be their failure , and they be just sling mud . meanwhile , we be get on with renew our country , plan reform to get Britain build again , online hospital for waiting list , and new opportunity for young people . labour be build a well future ; the Conservatives can not even come to term with their past . Derby be a city on the up , but unfortunately this last year we have be devastate by knife crime . Nasty Tory austerity decimate frontline policing , and we be now pay the price for that . at my regular city centre safety summit , the message be clear : to turn the page , we need action , not word . can the Prime Minister update my constituent on the action that this Government be take to ensure that all our resident , visitor and worker can enjoy our city centre safely ? my hon . friend will have hear at our conference from Pooja Kanda , who I have meet a number of time . her son Ronan be fatally stab . Iusb be proud that we have deliver Ronan ' s law to tackle the sale of ninja sword ; we have also ban zombie knife and strengthen control for online knife sale . I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s work in set up the city safety summit . I call the deputy leader of the Liberal Democrats . may I associate myself and my party with the tribute to David Amess ? on behalf of my party , may I also pay tribute to Ming Campbell , who be be lay to rest today ? that be the reason why my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) can not be here . I thank you , Mr Speaker , the Prime Minister and other member of this House for the very kind tribute pay yesterday . we welcome the new level of transparency from the Prime Minister , and we will scrutinise the witness statement closely , but it be clear that there be still many question to be answer , include question from hongkonger . hongkonger in St Albans and across the UK settle in our community after they flee repression at the hand of the chinese state , but they now see a british Government who want to make it hard for they to settle here permanently , refuse to impose targeted sanction on chinese official who put bounty on Hongkongers ’ head , refuse to rule out a chinese super - embassy and be fail to tackle chinese espionage . hongkonger be start to ask whether the Prime Minister be trade away their security and safety in our community for a cosier relationship with Beijing . what be the Prime Minister ' s answer to they ? the answer be no . we have give and will continue to give support to Hongkongers , who need and deserve that support . the hon . Lady will be assure that the Jimmy Lai case be raise regularly at every opportunity by my Ministers and by I . I think hongkonger will require a lot more reassurance and action from this Government . it be not just the Chinese Government who be a threat to our country . on Monday , the far - right , racist hate - preacher Tommy Robinson , who be on trial for allegedly refuse to comply with counter - terror police , claim that his legal cost be be pay by Elon Musk . it be outrageous that a man who have so much control over what people read online every day could be fund someone who stoke far - right extremism on our street . if it be Putin , the Government would surely act . will the Prime Minister commission the security service to assess the threat that Elon Musk pose to our democracy , and to recommend measure that this House can take to stop that ? we look across the board at threat to our democracy , and must continue to do so . I will not comment on the particular case , give the state of legal proceeding . next year mark the 75th anniversary of the battle of the Imjin river , where the 29th Infantry Brigade ' s last stand prevent the capture of Seoul during the korean war . that hill be now call Gloster Hill as a proud testament to the incredible bravery of one of those battalion , our glorious Glosters . will the Prime Minister join I in call for a commemoration of the glorious Glosters , and all those who fight to defend democracy , liberty and freedom in South Korea ? I join my hon . friend in mark the heroism and sacrifice of the 29th Infantry Brigade , which be an endure example of the bravery of all our armed force . I know that Defence Ministers would be happy to discuss commemorate their courage . our debt to the armed force underlie our commitment to veteran , which include deliver home for hero and a new network of veteran support centre , back with £ 50 million . ahead of his party conference , the Prime Minister tell the BBC that he be not sure whether he would campaign in Caerphilly for the by - election on 23 October . this be an important by - election in Wales , but with just over a week to go , the Prime Minister have not show his face there yet . what be the problem ? be it his party ' s decision to close 10 library in the community ? be it cut to disability support ? or be it perhaps the fact that even the council leader resign from the Labour party and be call on people to support Plaid Cymru ? the right hon . Lady leave out of her count that we provide £ 21 billion — the large ever settlement for Wales — and what do she do ? she vote against it , if you can believe it . while we be on the question of money , I notice that this week , the right hon . Lady accept figure show that independence would cost every Welsh person £ 7 , 000 . her party should be honest about the cost of their policy to the people of Wales . for the past year , I have be campaign for a new special educational need and disability school to open at the Osprey Quay site on Portland . there be far too few specialist school place for child with SEND in my part of the world , so local family urgently need to see that school open its door . a new school there would provide around 70 new place for local child . give the urgent need to finally get this school up and run , will the Prime Minister commit to work with the Department for Education and Dorset council to ensure that a SEND school open on Portland without further delay ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I know just how important that school be to parent and child in his constituency , and share his determination to fix the broken SEND system . that be why we have boost investment in SEND to £ 12 billion , to put new facility and tailor support in place for child who have long be fail . we want decision to be take swiftly , and I will ask the school Minister to update my hon . friend about that particular school . those on family farm in North Yorkshire and across the UK be increasingly worried about the tax change come up next year . we really need the next generation of family farm to keep farm for our national food security . the Centre for the Analysis of Taxation have produce an excellent , detailed academic report propose a number of compromise amendment and change that would both deliver for the Government and protect the family farm . I realise that the Prime Minister can not comment on the Budget , but will he and the Chancellor look at that report as they prepare for the end - of - November Budget ? I agree with the right hon . Gentleman that food security be national security . I believe that our reform strike the right balance , enable investment in the public service that rural community rely on . I thank he for draw my attention to that report ; he be right to do so . what really matter be increase the year - on - year profitability of our farmer , which be why the former president of the National Farmers Union be lead a review of farm profitability for we . we be also deliver a 25 - year farming road map and boost export opportunity through the EU and US trade deal . that be back by the £ 11 . 8 billion in the Budget for farming . as many member know , I be currently be treat for stage 2C skin cancer . I be respond well , but only because it be catch early and because I have have the very good of NHS care . not everyone be so fortunate . Zoe Panayi , a 26 - year - old from the Isle of Wight , be tell that her mole be harmless . she have it remove privately , but it prove to be malignant . she tragically die in 2020 . her family — Charlie and Eileen be in the Gallery today — have show extraordinary courage , work with my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) and I to campaign for Zoe ' s law : compulsory testing of all remove mole . will the Prime Minister meet we , and Zoe ' s family , to discuss how we can make this a reality ? on behalf of the House , I wish my hon . friend the very good for his recovery . I know that this be a deeply personal campaign for he — a campaign that be also support by our hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West . may I send my deep sympathy , and pay tribute to , Zoe ' s family , who be with we today ? their bravery be staggering , and I share their determination to improve cancer survival rate . that be why we be invest billion to see early diagnosis and fast treatment of cancer , and be develop a national cancer plan . of course , we will get a meeting set up , and if the family be available and it be convenient — I do not know whether it be — I will ask the Health Minister to meet they later today , or , if that be not convenient , at the early possible opportunity , so that they can have that discussion . business confidence have fall for five consecutive quarter , and the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors have say that there be significant concern in the housing market . the Prime Minister could inject some confidence back into the economy , he could help work family to get on to the housing ladder , and he could even simplify the tax affair of his Cabinet if he adopt the policy advocate by the Leader of the Opposition of scrap stamp duty on residential property . will he at least give a commitment not to raise property taxis in his nightmare - before - Christmas Budget ? we will certainly not be follow the Leader of the Opposition . she unveil what she call she " golden economic rule " , I think it be , which involve £ 47 billion of spending cut — that be a fifth of the NHS budget — with not a shred of detail about where the money would come from . the Institute for Government say that it be base on " shaky foundation " . More unfunded tax cut , and more austerity for public service : the Conservatives have not listen , and they have not learn . between 2021 and 2023 , 41 mental health patient in the care of the Tees , Esk and wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust lose their life . that lead to a damn report from NHS England and call from my constituent for a public inquiry . this be not just historic ; my surgery be still fill with harrowing story of failure . will the Prime Minister join my call for that public inquiry , to get to the bottom of what go wrong and to rebuild confidence with new , more appropriately sized local NHS mental health trust that be fit to serve our constituent ? my hon . friend have be a strong advocate for his constituent on this issue . the Health Secretary have meet the family affect by these failure twice , I think , this year to hear their story , and I want to make it clear that what happen to their loved one be unacceptable . the Health Secretary be currently consider the good way forward so that family get the answer that they deserve . it be right that they receive any update first , but I can assure my hon . friend that we will provide that update as soon as we be able to do so . later this afternoon I will be launch a small business survey so that the 3 , 000 small and medium - sized enterprise in my constituency , which employ thousand of my constituent , can have their say about what be like to run a business under a Labour Government , and what their concern be ahead of the Budget . however , I want to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to provide a word of hope that I can share . will he tell my constituent that he have hear the plea of sme and their fright about the Budget , that he will scrap business rate for hospitality and leisure as well as the family business and family farm taxis , and that his Government will commit themselves to no further tax rise for business ? just a few month ago we publish our small business strategy , which be base on what small business say to we . I will make a copy available to the hon . Lady so that she can give one to each of her constituent before they respond to the survey . after 14 year of neglect , this Government be renew the infrastructure of Britain — and for the benefit of the Leader of the Opposition , that be spell B - r - i - t - a - I - N . nowhere be this renewal more clearly need than at the A226 Galley Hill Road in Swanscombe in my constituency , which collapse more than two year ago , and there be no fix in sight . do the Prime Minister agree that the announcement of the transport structure fund in the spending review show that this Government be end the conservative decline and get on with fix break road like Galley Hill ? my hon . friend be right : the conservative party let road crumble after year of under - investment . we be build infrastructure that work people rely on , with £ 1 billion to repair bridge , tunnel and flyover across the country and £ 92 billion in major road and rail upgrade . we be rebuild Britain ; the Conservatives can not even spell it . much like the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) , my constituent be serve by the Tees , Esk and wear Valleys mental health trust . they face travel to York or Middlesbrough for local in - patient bed , with some people be send as far afield as Glasgow or Southampton . this be completely unacceptable , and we need a provision of local mental health in - patient bed . I welcome the openness to an inquiry into TEWV , but my concern be that while that be go on , we need real action so that the continue failing do not see the loss of any other life . what step will the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State take now to reassure our constituent and to rebuild trust in TEWV ? the hon . Gentleman will have hear my response to my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) a moment ago ; I say again that what happen to his constituent be unacceptable , and we will give the answer as soon as we can . in the meantime , the hon . Member ask what be happen . we be get on with recruit 6 , 700 additional NHS mental health staff , we be build 85 new dedicated mental health emergency department , and we have boost nhs spending on mental health by almost £ 700 million . I thank the Prime Minister for his strong word at our party conference in call for unity at a time when many feel that our country be divide , and in rightly call out racism . I be a second - generation immigrant , bear in this country , and people like I and so many of our constituent have every right to be here . no one should face hatred because of the colour of their skin . do the Prime Minister agree that some of those on the Opposition Benches who seek to stoke division and keep close company with those who accept russian bribe can not and should not be trust to govern this country ? my hon . friend capture the choice before we as a country : we can either give in to division or come together as a country and renew our country . this be National Hate Crime Awareness Week , and in the past fortnight we have see the horrific terror atrocity in Manchester and a despicable arson attack on the mosque in Peacehaven . I want to be clear as Prime Minister : I be proud to lead and to serve this beautiful , tolerant and diverse country . an attack on one of we be an attack on all of we . Calithea Studios in Mid Dunbartonshire be a prime example of a business do everything the Government ask . the owner of this beauty salon and her three employee each earn less than £ 30 , 000 a year , yet the business will pay the Government over £ 36 , 000 for the year in vat , employer ' s national insurance and pension contribution . do the Prime Minister think it be fair that the hard - work owner , who be provide job and training on the high street , contribute more to the Exchequer than she earn in a year ? do he believe this encourage entrepreneurship , which be important for economic growth and local job ? as the hon . Lady will know , we have protect business rate bill from inflation and extended relief at 40 % , with new , permanent low rate set and introduce for retail , hospitality and leisure . as part of our small business plan , we be provide £ 3 billion so that lender can offer more loan to small business . we be , of course , introduce the most significant package on late payment — a real issue for small business — and reform that be big than any in the last 25 year . can the Prime Minister update the House on the Government ' s election Bill ? do he agree that in the light of recent court case and the conviction of Reform ' s former leader in Wales , no party whose leader take russian bribe can be trust to defend our democracy ? labour be introduce an election Bill to protect our democracy from foreign interference . but look at Reform . the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) and his deputy , the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , work alongside someone who take money to spread Putin ' s propaganda . whatever their denial , they have serious question to answer about what they know , but that be the choice : Kremlin crony sow division or labour patriot work for national renewal . the line that we have hear from the Government in recent day have be a conflation of fabricated story try to set up straw man and knock down thing that have not be say . the real question in this whole debate be whether or not the Director of Public Prosecutions charge legally and properly . if they do , then the Official Secrets Act be valid , and all this talk about the National Security Act 2023 , which I introduce , be completely irrelevant . if they do not , why be he not charge his successor with abuse of power ? well , we know the reality , Mr Speaker . although the Prime Minister have answer the question about evidence , the real question be : what political direction do this Government give to their official before they go to give evidence ? absolutely none — absolutely none . I will also tell the right hon . Gentleman this : I be the chief prosecutor for five year , and I can say that in those five year , which include three year under the coalition Government , when we be take difficult decision on mps ' expense , not once — not once — be I subject to political pressure of any sort from anyone . that be the tradition in this country . it be a proud tradition , and it be one I uphold as Prime Minister , just as I uphold it when I be Director of Public Prosecutions . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . in the statement that the Security Minister make early this week and then again in answer to a question today , I have be misquote — and the misquote , I think , be significant . it have be say that I , in a speech at Mansion House , say that describe China as a threat be " impossible , impractical and — most importantly — unwise . " the quote be that describe China or our policy " in one word " be " impossible , impractical and — most importantly — unwise . " in that speech , I go on to say of our policy : " first , we will strengthen our national security protection wherever Beijing ' s action pose a threat to our people or our prosperity . " I finish by say : " and when there be tension with other objective , we will always put our national security first . " how can I get redress for this misquote , Mr Speaker ? the right hon . Gentleman have put it on the record , and it be there now for all to see . I will leave it at that . Jhoots Pharmacy ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care if he will make a statement on the adequacy of Jhoots as a pharmacy provider . I congratulate the hon . member on secure this important urgent question . pharmacy play a vital role in our healthcare system . they be at the heart of our high street and be the cornerstone of community up and down the country . that be why this Government have give pharmacy a funding boost of almost £ 500 million this year , which be more than any other area of the NHS and the big uplift in year . indeed , we have provide a 19 % uplift over the two - year period . the vast majority of pharmacy provide excellent care to their patient , but unfortunately there be some that fall short of the standard we expect . sadly , the service provide by jhoot be fall well below the mark . hon . member will know that several integrate care board have be deploy contract management action against Jhoots , initially in the form of breach notice . integrated care board enforce the NHS term of service on pharmacy for such thing as their opening hour , and the General Pharmaceutical Council regulate pharmacy premise and pharmacy professional . both icb and the General Pharmaceutical Council have power to address problem in pharmacy and they be actively use those power , include in relation to store that be part of Jhoots . I have write to the hon . gentleman about this case . as he will understand , it be difficult for I to go into detail about one pharmacy chain , at least on the specific of the measure we be take , but I can tell he that where there be problem with access to medicine , icb be support affected patient in the short term , for example by allow local dispense doctor to provide dispense service to those patient . where pharmacy store regularly breach their term of service , icb can give they notice that they be be remove from the pharmaceutical list . this power apply to any and all pharmacy , include , of course , Jhoots , and mean that pharmacy would no long be able to provide NHS service . such notice can be appeal against , so it do take some time to work through the system . I stress to hon . member that pharmacy be private business and must be responsible business owner . we can regulate what pharmacy should and should not do as part of their NHS term of service , but it be not possible to prevent pharmacy from , for example , not pay their staff . in conclusion , if pharmacy breach their term of service , for example by not be open when they should be or where there be patient safety concern , we take action . the General Pharmaceutical Council be take regulatory action . icb be take regulatory action and be support patient with access to medicine where necessary . this be aim at improve pharmacy ' behaviour , but can ultimately lead to pharmacy be force to close their business . I have also ask my official to explore whether we can strengthen the regulatory framework to be able to deal more quickly with pharmacy that do not play by the rule . my official be work on that as a matter of urgency . my office be also set up a meeting with the hon . Gentleman to discuss this matter far and I will keep the House update in the usual way . I would be grateful , Madam Deputy Speaker , if you could pass on my thank to Mr Speaker for grant this urgent question . I thank the Minister for his response . the collapse of service provision in some place , the constant closure in other and the general governance at Jhoots pharmacy , which operate 150 branch across England , demand immediate ministerial intervention . in West Dorset , Jhoots branch in Lyme Regis and Bridport have be close for month , leave thousand without access to essential medication and place a huge strain on overstretch neighbouring pharmacy . jhoot staff have go month without pay , despite payslip be issue , tax deduction make and pension contribution not deposit . I have be contact only this morning by staff who have not be pay for the third month . many be unable to buy food or pay rent . they be rely on food bank and the amazing community that have step up to support they . there have be report of staff recruit by jhoot under skilled worker visa be leave without income or resource . I have also be make aware of deeply troubling report of control drug be remove without proper documentation or process , which if prove true may constitute a breach of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 . I have raise my concern with the General Pharmaceutical Council , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , the NHS Business Services Authority , the ICB and the Minister , whom I thank for his response . I understand that process must be follow , but this situation require immediate action . jhoot staff be not be pay and people across the country do not have access to vital medicine . will the Minister please confirm what step be be take to ensure that all Jhoots staff be pay without delay ? what discussion have take place with the NHS BSA , the General Pharmaceutical Council and other regulator about Jhoots ' s business practice ? finally , will the Government commit to urgently review Jhoots ' s suitability as an NHS pharmacy provider , outline what safeguard will be introduce to prevent this from happen again and review the pharmacy funding model ? I agree with everything the hon . Gentleman have say . it be completely and utterly unacceptable if a business such as Jhoots be not pay its staff . if there be indeed these report that control drug be not be handle properly , I would strongly recommend that any mishandling of drug be report to the General Pharmaceutical Council , which regulate pharmacy professional and premise , so that appropriate action can be take . the hon . Gentleman ask about the payment of staff . pharmacy staff be vital part of the NHS part of what a pharmacy do . pharmacy staff provide vital service to our community and should be pay accord to their contract ; any failure to do so be completely unacceptable . of course , pharmacy staff be employ not by the NHS , but by the business they work for , so any dispute between staff and a pharmacy business should be raise with the Advisory , Conciliation and Arbitration Service , ACAS . I be also in touch with the Pharmacists ' Defence Association — the PDA — which be do important work represent its member . I will be meet they soon as well . of course , we have responsibility for the NHS part of the work , but it be up to individual business to ensure that their employee be treat fairly . the hon . Gentleman rightly mention the review of suitability to operate , and we be now look at that across the board . we be look at the role of the General Pharmaceutical Council and what be take place with icb take contract action . where there be no sign of improvement and pharmacy continue to be in breach , the next escalation be to strike they off the pharmaceutical register , which take some time , because certain pharmacy — I be not go to name name , but I be sure the hon . Gentleman can imagine who — be try every single thing they can to appeal , push back and stop the action that we be seek to take , which be elongate the process . however , I want to be clear : if there be clear breach and action be not take to remedy that breach , pharmacy will be strike off the pharmaceutical register . I call our very own pharmacist , Sadik Al - Hassan . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . as a pharmacist for nearly 20 year and the MP of North Somerset , I have the dubious pleasure of have two Jhoots pharmacy in the town of Portishead in my constituency . I can not say two operating pharmacy , because they have shutter their door , with report of they not have pay their bill , their rent or their staff . as a pharmacist , I know that this affect the perception and view of community pharmacy up and down the country . what plan do the Minister and the Department have to ensure that bad actor in the pharmacy space — as Jhoots , in my opinion , appear to be — be deal with more quickly and effectively under new legislation ? order . question should not be statement . I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s direct professional expertise and experience as a pharmacist . he be right to point to the fact that the regulatory framework be not as strong as it need to be . I have speak with official in my Department who have work in the pharmacy sector for many year , and they have never see behaviour like this before . it be quite unprecedented . nevertheless , it be shine a light on the fact that we do not have a strong enough regulatory framework . we need to look at the way that business owner be regulate . there be strong regulation of pharmacist and pharmacy staff such as technician , but business owner be not regulate as strongly as they could and should be . my hon . friend be right that speed be also important , which be why we need to look at way of fast - track particular case where there be clear breach , because sometimes the appeal process can be very slow indeed . we be look at all of this in the round , and I have commission urgent advice from my official to see how we can beef up the regulatory framework . I call the shadow Minister . only this weekend , the National Pharmacy Association chief executive , Henry Gregg , say that he be concerned that " report of Jhoots Pharmacy branch across England fail patient risk damage community pharmacy ' s reputation and could imperil its ability to secure a good 2026 - 27 funding settlement . " community across the country have be leave without function pharmacy . door have be lock without notice , patient have arrive to find no pharmacist , no prescription and no stock , and staff have go unpaid and be threaten with the sack . Jhoots Pharmacy face allegation of not pay wage , have premise repossess and serious regulatory breach . the General Pharmaceutical Council have already intervene several time , yet for many patient it be too late — they simply can not get their medicine . this be not an isolated business failure ; it expose a deep fragility in the community pharmacy network on which local people depend for basic and often lifesave care . I have four question for the Minister . first , when be NHS England first make aware of these closure , and have the Minister meet the Jhoots leadership ? if not , why not ? if he do , what be the outcome ? secondly , have the Department assess how many people have be leave without local pharmacy access as a result of jhoot ' s action , and what be the Minister do to remedy this , consider it be happen across the country ? he mention icb , but there be several involve . thirdly , what mechanism exist to ensure continuity of care when a contractor collapse or walk away ? again , he mention icb , but be there a national contingency plan ? finally , will the Government now review whether the current model , under which chain be expand rapidly through acquisition and debt , be fit to safeguard community pharmacy in the long term ? link to that , can the Minister definitively confirm that the funding settlement have not be compromise ? the 10 - year NHS plan state that it want to move more care into the community , yet it be completely miss a delivery chapter on how to achieve that . at the same time , we have issue such as Jhoots . I hope the Minister will be take step to investigate this issue in its entirety and to safeguard against this type of incident happen again , and will spell out the delivery aspect of the 10 - year plan . I thank the shadow Minister for his question . he ask about first awareness of what be happen with Jhoots . he will be aware that it enter the market through the purchase of a number of Lloyds pharmacy that be no long a go concern in 2023 , so the question about due diligence on Jhoots as an operator be probably something he should be ask one of my predecessor from his party , which be in power at the time . since those purchase , Jhoots have expand rapidly , and that have be where we have see the question mark around its ability to operate and the serious downgrading of service . I have not meet the management of Jhoots . we be look at a whole range of legal and regulatory enforcement procedure , and the decision we have take be that it be well not to interfere in any way in those process , but I be certainly monitor that very closely . if we receive legal advice that suggest that such a meeting would be a good idea , I will of course be open to it . however , the current legal position base on the advice we have receive be that it would not be appropriate at this time . on local pharmacy access , integrate care board have a statutory responsibility to ensure adequate pharmacy provision . some icb , for example , have allow dispense gp practice to provide dispense service to affected patient , while other have work with local GP practice to advise patient to nominate alternative nearby pharmacy for their prescription . we have look at the impact geographically , and our view be that in most case there be alternative pharmacy provision to Jhoots within striking distance . however , there be four or five area of the country where that be not the case , include in the constituency of the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) , who secure this urgent question . I be very conscious of that . in those case , extra provision need to be make through icb and GPs — that may be through distance selling or by other mean — to ensure that patient have pharmacy access . the shadow Minister ask about continuity of care and national contingency . the situation be challenging because , as I mention in my remark and as official have say , we have not see this rapid decline in service before . we be work at pace to strengthen the regulatory framework and we be look at contingency plan . I do not see any reason why the overall funding settlement for pharmacy should be undermine . we will continue to protect community pharmacy as a crucial part of our NHS . I thank the Minister for his response . community pharmacy , such as Lodge pharmacy in Perry Common in my area , play a vital role and offer an excellent service , and that be why I be concern when place such as Jhoots pharmacy close or , maybe , fold . the winter month be come , and I be passionate about winter measure . how will we ensure that our pharmacy can offer the winter vaccine need this year if we lose large chain , such as Jhoots ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s work on the Select Committee . NHS England be assess the situation and prepare contingency plan in case Jhoots become insolvent . such plan involve work with other local pharmacy and dispense GP practice to ensure that patient continue to have access to medicine . continuity of care , as she rightly point out , must be at the heart of our response , and we be work at pace to ensure that be protect . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . may I first thank my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) for raise this appalling issue ? pharmacy be at the heart of our community and be rely upon by million . they be under increase pressure across the country , where we be see irregular opening hour and unannounced closure . family live in community that rely on Jhoots pharmacy , such as those in the constituency of my hon . friend and many other part of the country , will be deeply concerned that they and their loved one could be about to be leave without medicine that they desperately need . staff have be place in an intolerable situation . the National Pharmacy Association ' s chief executive have say , as we have hear , that Jhoots risk damage the reputation of community pharmacy . the Government urgently need to grip this issue and ensure that patient and the staff of these pharmacy be not be let down . will the Minister and the Secretary of State agree to meet all the member in this place whose community be affect by potential closure ? will he update the House at the early opportunity as to what step he be take to stabilise the crisis in community pharmacy across the country ? be he confident that integrate care board , which be distract by 50 % cut to their budget and top - down reorganisation , have the capacity to deal with this urgent situation as they head into planning for the next winter crisis ? I thank the hon . member for those question . I would certainly be happy to meet member who have Jhoots in their constituency and be affect . I will update the House . we be look at strengthen the regulation , but there be some constraint on what I can say , because so much of this be now go through legal process . there be pushback , and we do not want to do anything to jeopardise the legal action we be take through the appeal process , so I will have to be relatively circumspect in what I say . I be happy to have those discussion and to update the House . I be confident that icb can take this forward . in most case across the country , our assessment be that there be a pharmacy within striking distance of a Jhoots , but certainly in those area where there be not , that may require particular follow - up action . my official and I will be follow up with those icb to ensure that the appropriate action be be take . five member of staff from Jhoots pharmacy in Laceby Road have be to see I . they have be go into work , but they have not be pay since July . it be absolutely appalling . can the Minister set out what pressure he and the Department can bring to bear on this chain , which have now unfortunately close its door for good ? I agree with absolutely every word that my hon . friend have just say . it be completely unacceptable that people be come into work , do an honest day ' s work and then not receive an honest day ' s pay . unfortunately , there be a limit to what we can do , because pharmacy be private business and each employer be require to fulfil their legal obligation to pay their staff . I recommend that the member of staff she mention contact ACAS and their trade union the PDA , if they be not already in touch . for those who be not member of that union , I strongly recommend join a trade union and seek legal advice from it . that be a vital part of what trade union do . they need to take action to force Jhoots to do the right thing . I thank my friend and neighbour , the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) , for secure this urgent question . I have exactly the same problem as he and the hon . member for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) , but in Shaftesbury in my constituency . I thank the staff of Boots , who be pick up such a huge amount of slack because Jhoots be not there . there be a danger to the member of staff who be on duty , because there be prescribe drug on the premise , and she be the only person there , and I worry for her safety . what additional support can the Department give to exist provider , such as Boots , that be pick up the slack , particularly during the winter peak , in term of advice to patient and administer vaccine ? this be a clear breach of contract , but I be tell by our ICB that it do not fall within contract law . the regulation be moot on this point , because the circumstance that Jhoots find itself in be never envisage when the regulation be write . that be the problem that the Minister have identify . there seem to be some timidity among official and other on the overhang threat of a judicial review , be the Government to act in extremis to introduce some urgency . I urge the Minister to take that risk on behalf of all our constituent . I certainly welcome his offer , follow the suggestion of the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , that all member of Parliament with constituent affect by this dire problem should be involve in meeting . I look forward to that , so that we can provide timely advice , update and support to our constituent , who be rightly worried . I pay tribute to the Boots employee in the hon . member ' s constituency where Jhoots be not provide the service that be require . we appreciate that . I can assure he that nothing be off the table . he have rightly identify the problem with the regulatory framework , which be strong on pharmacist , pharmacist ' premise and pharmacy staff , but there be something of a gap when it come to regulate pharmacy business owner . that gap have be identify , and I have commission my official to work on that at pace . I will happily keep he update on that work . I thank the Minister for the context and the response he have provide so far . jhoot in my constituency of Gillingham and Rainham have provide an incredibly poor service , not pay staff , not dispense vital medicine and often not open on time . however , any replacement pharmacy or provider can not come in , because the local pharmaceutical need assessment suggest that there be function provision . will the Minister consider a review of the criterion surround PNAs so that they not only list those pharmacy that be available , but also look at failure , such as the one we be see with jhoot ? by recognise that , other provider can take their place , if need be . my hon . friend have put her finger on an issue within all this , which be that if we be look to bring in other pharmacy to replace Jhoots or , indeed , to take over a Jhoots store , we can not do that in the latter case until such time as there be an insolvency and that business be no long a go concern . there be a process , set out in legislation , for open new pharmacy . potential new pharmacy contractor can apply to open in an area and evidence how a new pharmacy can provide benefit for patient , but it be a challenge for they to make such a case if a Jhoots pharmacy be still list as open and provide service . it be something of a Catch - 22 situation . we first have to resolve the issue with Jhoots and take the necessary action , and then we can see where we be with potential gap in the market . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . the case of Jhoots be clearly hugely unfortunate give the incredible work that community pharmacy do up and down the country for our constituent . I be pleased to hear the Minister say that this case will not negatively affect the funding settlement , but it be set against the backdrop of a very precarious sector where actor who want to do good by our community and do a high - quality job often find that they simply can not make end meet , and bad actor find a way to move in . when the Committee look last at this issue , the workforce be a key plank to why the sector be not sustainable . what update can the Minister give we on the inclusion of pharmacist in the workforce plan ? I thank the hon . Lady and pay tribute to her work as Chair of the Select Committee . I be very proud of the fact that we deliver a £ 500 million uplift to pharmacy — 19 % across the two - year period . it be the high uplift of any sector , not just of my portfolio but the entire NHS . I be also very proud of the fact that we be take forward hub - and - speak legislation to enable pharmacist and pharmacy technician to operate at the top of their licence . the day before yesterday we sign off on a statutory instrument to improve the ability of technician to do more in the area of dispense . we be look to empower the workforce and enable they to operate at the top of their licence . that be a fundamental part of the shift from hospital to community that be at the heart of our 10 - year plan . Jhoots pharmacy move into the village of Knott end in 2023 , and it be not long before constituent be get in touch with I to explain that they could not access their prescription because pharmacy be closed and unreliable . we do have the very good over Wyre medical centre , which have dispense right , but it be restrain by the one - mile rule , which mean that it can not dispense prescription within one mile of a pharmacy , whether that be open or closed . I feel like we be in a Catch - 22 situation . what help can the Minister give my constituent to ensure that those who be within one mile of the Jhoots pharmacy that be never open can access their prescription from the dispensing over Wyre medical centre ? my hon . friend rightly put her finger on the Catch - 22 situation in which we find ourselves . it be patently absurd that a pharmacy that be not operate , as she just describe , be block the ability of other to step in and fill the gap . that be something we have to resolve , and it be part of the work I have commission urgently . we clearly have gap in the regulatory framework . this be an unprecedented situation , and we be work at pace to address it , but she have rightly put her finger on this Catch - 22 , which need to be resolve . we need to move one piece out of the way so that we can deal with the situation . the way Jhoots be treat its workforce , the community and supplier be frankly appalling . it be fail community who desperately rely on it . the Government be plan to introduce a health bill at some point in the come month that will see the abolition of NHS England . can the Minister update the House on when the Bill will come forward and what provision it will contain to strengthen accountability for the delivery of community pharmacy ? I know that my colleague the Minister of State for Health be work hard on the drafting process for the Bill . I can not give the hon . member the exact date of its introduction , but I would be very happy to write to he with confirmation of the expect introduction date . I be pleased that this urgent question have be secure , because I have write to the Minister about this company . I be also grateful to my hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) , who have give I advice in the matter . I be pleased that the Government be take regulatory action in respect of the quality , safety and availability of the service , but I be horrified to hear that several of my constituent work for this company have go unpaid for several week . please could the Minister reach out to the relevant Minister within the Department for Business and Trade to see what else we can do for those people , because it be simply not right that they be out of pocket ? that be an excellent suggestion ; I will do that . we be hear colleague after colleague say that staff be not be pay , and if there be clear evidence of a breach of employment law , we absolutely need to look at that . I will follow up on my hon . friend ' s suggestion . we have hear again this afternoon the line from the Minister that pharmacy staff be employ not by the NHS but by pharmacy business , and that this be just a dispute between staff and the pharmacy business that should be raise in the first instance with ACAS . Holli Froggatt from Sidmouth , a former member of Jhoots staff , have write to I to say that staff have email Jhoots beg for their wage as they have empty bank account . in normal circumstance , the Government like to lean on pharmacy to take the pressure off GPs , with such scheme as Pharmacy First , so how can the Minister simply wash his hand of this situation when staff have go for three month without pay ? I do not think that be an accurate characterisation of what I be say . I be say that we be take action against Jhoots from the regulatory point of view , and there be clearly a glaring issue with the payment of staff . that need to be take forward through the industrial relation process , both through ACAS and the PDA . we will give all the support we can to both those organisation to ensure that Jhoots be hold to account . my constituent in Sedbergh , a rural market town , have suffer greatly from the terrible pharmacy provision by Jhoots . medicine have be unavailable , the pharmacy have often be close , and staff and locum pharmacist be go unpaid , yet pay slip be be issue , so it be very hard for they to claim benefit . I have write to the Minister and meet with the integrate care board . doctor and neighbouring pharmacist — I say neighbouring , but this be in Westmorland , which be a 40 - minute drive away — have step in to help , as have the parish council . can the Minister outline what action he be take nationally to force Jhoots to provide a well service for my constituent ? we be actively work with integrate care board , NHS England , the General Pharmaceutical Council and , indeed , trade union to ensure that all of these issue be be take forward and give the urgency that they require . sadly , as I have point out , the regulatory framework be not adequate . it be very focused on pharmacist and pharmacy premise , and inadequately and insufficiently focus on business owner . that be something that must be address as a matter of urgency , and we be work on it at pace . the failure of Jhoots be put unsustainable pressure on other pharmacy across my constituency , but talk have not even begin on pharmacy funding beyond March of next year . give the urgent situation with Jhoots , will the Minister review the timescale for those talk so that our pharmacy that be have to pick up this extra work can have some certainty about future funding ? this be absolutely urgent , as the hon . Member rightly say . I have commission official to work on this matter at pace . we can clearly see that this be a matter of national significance simply by the number of colleague in the Chamber . I can give the hon . member that assurance , and I would be happy to update he once I have a well sense of the exact timeframe and deadline . we will be insist that thing happen as a matter of urgency . over the recess I meet the Singh family , who run two pharmacy in my constituency . the family be clear that , despite improved funding , they be still struggle with overly complex funding formula , delay payment , high energy price and drug shortage , among other challenge . however , the positive initiative of Pharmacy First and the independent prescribing pathfinder programme offer a ray of hope . will the Minister commit to continue to invest time and energy in expand those programme and meet my pharmacy from Rushcliffe to discuss they far ? we remain absolutely committed to the independent prescribing service and be work on the plan and strategy to make that a reality . we continue to support Pharmacy First , but sadly take - up of it have not be as good as we would have like it to be . the way it be structure and incentivise have not enable it to realise its full potential , and we be work on that as well . a number of error be make by the previous Government , who do not set Pharmacy First up to succeed to the extent that it should have do . Jhoots Pharmacy have reveal the severe financial strain face community pharmacy . the town of Glastonbury and Bruton be home to fantastic independent pharmacy , continue to serve their community despite more than half of pharmacy owner lose money last year . how will the Government ensure that the regulatory framework be robust so that community pharmacy service in rural area can remain resilient and accessible ? the hon . member be right : this be about make the regulatory framework more robust . as I have point out , it be robust on pharmacist , on technician and on pharmacy premise , but it be simply not strong enough when it come to pharmacy business owner . the unprecedented case of Jhoots be throw that into sharp relief . that be what we be work on at pace . I will be happy to update she once we have some clear progress on the plan and strategy to beef up the regulatory framework to ensure that this kind of thing can never happen again . last week I meet staff from Jhoots Pharmacy in Thorley and be shock when they tell I that they have be unpaid for month but be still work . some be struggle with their mortgage or unable to afford food for their child ' s school lunch . their concern be for their resident , many of whom be elderly and vulnerable , who have be leave without essential medication because of stock issue and unexpected closure . they be good , decent people who want to provide a community service for our resident . will the Minister assure my constituent directly that the Department will look at all possible option and work across Government where relevant to address the situation that allow this to become a problem and the specific situation affect my constituent now ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend ' s constituent , who be clearly go through an extremely difficult and challenging time . I strongly recommend that they contact ACAS and the PDA , or another trade union if they happen to be a member of one . his key point be about how we can ensure that this do not happen again . the GPhC be take enforcement action against individual pharmacy and we have to wait for the outcome of those action — some of those be go through appeal process . as soon as one of those action have conclude , that will greatly facilitate and catalyse the process for go after any pharmacy that be not deliver to the service standard that we would expect . staff and patient at Jhoots Pharmacy in South Wootton in North West Norfolk have be let down , go month without pay or stock , and with no communication from management . the pharmacist leave after non - payment . when I raise those issue with the company , it simply refuse to respond . the Minister have refer to future regulatory change , but give that the pattern be repeat across the country , what urgent step be he take to work with icb collectively to ensure that staff get the money they be owe and that commission service be deliver ? will he not rule out take action against individual director ? as I say , we be in constant dialogue with icb and the GPhC . I absolutely get it : we need to speed it up as it need to be fast and more urgent . I be clear about that , and we be take this forward as a matter of priority . in term of take action against individual director , nothing be off the table . as I say , the regulatory framework as thing stand do not facilitate that , so we have get to look at other option . but there be view in the GPhC that suggest there may be some way of look at interpret regulation and legislation that could facilitate more immediate action . that be on the menu of action that we be look at . for almost two year now , the people of Sheringham have be suffer from completely unacceptable service from our local branch of Jhoots . shortage of drug , shortage of pharmacist , issue with pay staff and a litany of other issue have cause chaos , include one resident send by NHS 111 to secure emergency antibiotic find themselves stand in the rain outside a closed pharmacy , fearful that they would end up in A & E . will the Minister tell people in Sheringham and the surround village what protection there will be for service if Jhoots be no long fit to provide they ? how be taxpayer ' money be protect from be lose ? most importantly , how on earth be it allow to get this bad in the first place ? in term of the replacement for Jhoots service , that be where we be in a Catch - 22 situation , because until a pharmacy that be not provide a service have be move out of the way , it be not possible to move in and replace that service with another , so the first step in all this be to take action against those pharmacy that be not deliver to requisite service standard . as soon as we can get that process move , we can start to commission and bring in alternative provider . I share his frustration and the impatience of his constituent , and I assure he that we be take urgent action on all these issue . I thank the Minister very much for his strong answer to restore confidence . will he acknowledge that pressure on the NHS , especially into the winter month , mean that pharmacy will be play a big role in provide basic help and advice , and that be unable to rely on a pharmacy can not be sustain ? will he please outline the professional standard expect of pharmaceutical chain throughout the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and how these private company can be hold to their public obligation ? I agree with the hon . member on the vital role play by community pharmacy now and go into the future . we want that role to continue and , indeed , to be strengthen and expand . if we look at our 10 - year plan , with the shift from hospital to community , we see that community pharmacy be at the heart of that . also , in the shift from sickness to prevention , we see the vital work that community pharmacy play in deliver vaccine and a whole range of other service that really will support the prevention agenda , so community pharmacy be at the heart of our plan . the standard set out by the General Pharmaceutical Council — robust standard that be robustly regulate — require a certain level of service to be provide and certain level of expertise and experience . what we clearly now need to do be upgrade the way we regulate pharmacy business owner . my official and I be work on that as a matter of urgency . Ukraine with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the late situation in Ukraine , on the recent strike against Kyiv , on our continue support for Ukraine , on our response to continue russian aggression , and on a major new package of sanction against russian oil and gas that I be announce today . it be a pleasure to do so on the same day we have welcome Ruslan Stefanchuk , the Speaker of the Ukrainian Parliament , to the House of Commons — a sign of our strong and continued friendship . it be a reflection of the importance of Ukraine ' s security to the Government and to all of we here in the UK that my first statement to the House from the Dispatch Box as Foreign Secretary be on Ukraine , just as Ukraine be my first visit when take up the role a month ago . let I also thank and pay tribute to my predecessor in this role — the Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) — for his work in represent our country on the world stage with great principle and distinction , and in show such strong and continue leadership in support Ukraine . three and a half year after Russia ' s illegal and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine , President Putin have fail in his war aim . he be fail on his military objective , on the economy and on his political objective for both Ukraine and Europe , thank to the courage and resilience of the ukrainian people and the support and determination of Ukraine ' s friend . as Ukraine stand firm against Russia , the UK stand firm with Ukraine . Ukraine ' s security be Europe ' s security , and the security and stability of the whole of Europe be vital for our security here in the UK . President Zelensky stand ready to hold talk for peace , but President Putin seek only to escalate war . he will not succeed . now be the time not just to continue with our steadfast support for Ukraine ' s defence , but to substantially increase the pressure on Russia ' s economy and on Putin ' s war machine . major new UK sanction against Russia ' s big oil company and shadow fleet and new concerted action with our partner will choke off oil and gas revenue and hit at the heart of Putin ' s economy and war machine . we be determined to support our ukrainian friend and to stand up for our own security . what be clear to I in Kyiv a few week ago , and what be clear to everyone visit Ukraine , be the endure courage and unbreakable spirit of the ukrainian people . I see at first hand the damage from an iskander missile on Ukraine ' s Cabinet of Ministers build just 10 day after the British Council office be also damage . I meet family whose life have be uproot , their home destroy and their child ' s education tear apart . I also meet up with two teenager who live with we in Castleford during the first year of the war and who have now return . despite the drone , the bombardment and the disruption to their life and their schooling , they continue to train as international standard ballroom dancer . like Ukrainians across their country , they will not let Russia destroy their dream . that be what Vladimir Putin will never understand about the ukrainian people . for three and a half year — indeed , since 2014 — he have question their resilience . for three and a half year , he have doubt the commitment of their ally . for three and a half year , he have be prove wrong . everywhere I go in Kyiv last month , I see a nation resolute in its fight . despite the huge russian mobilisation effort in the last three year , Putin remain as far away from achieve those military goal as he have ever be . in this war that Putin start , russian loss be now 20 time high than soviet loss in Afghanistan . in this war that Putin continue to pursue , Russia be now struggle to equip its force . in some area , stock be so low that they have resort to use military kit from the 1950 . as a result of this war that Putin refuse to end , the International Monetary Fund have revise down russian growth forecast and military spending now outstrip social spending for the first time since the collapse of the Soviet Union . we know , however , that with increase desperation come increase danger . in recent week , Putin have engage in provocative and reckless violation of NATO airspace in Estonia , Poland and Romania , and NATO stand together against that action , resolute and ready to act . his recent bombardment of Ukraine have see some of the large attack in Europe since the height of the second world war . civilian casualty have rise nearly 40 % , with child kill in playground , hospital and school destroy , and civilian energy infrastructure target . just yesterday , a UN aid convoy be hit deliver vital assistance to a frontline community . while we continue to strive for peace in Ukraine , we must be steel for the war to continue , and that mean focus on four priority . first , we will ensure that Ukraine get the support it need to stand up to this late onslaught . in my meeting with President Zelensky and Foreign Minister Sybiha in September , I reaffirm the UK ' s ironclad support . we be provide £ 4 . 5 billion of military support for Ukraine this year — more than ever before — with over £ 150 million - worth of air defence and artillery deliver in the last two month alone . we have use our co - chairmanship of the Ukraine Defence Contact Group to galvanise partner , raise over £ 2 billion through the UK - run International Fund for Ukraine to support the most urgent military need . during that kyiv visit , I announce £ 142 million in UK aid to support Ukraine through the winter and into next year . that will include our large emergency energy support package since the start of the war to restore and repair water , heating and electricity system . secondly , we will ramp up the pressure on Russia to ensure that their escalation come at a clear cost . I be today set out a further and new set of sanction — among our strong so far — to tighten the pressure on Russia ' s economy . this will be the second set of sanction I have announce in a month and I be ready to go far still . this will take the total UK - impose sanction on Russia - relate individual and entity to over 2 , 900 . at the UN Security Council last month , I tell Foreign Minister Lavrov directly , shortly before he walk out of the chamber , that " we will target your ail economy , your oil and gas revenue … the defence industry make your munition , because we know for Russia , the price of war be pile up . " with immediate effect , we be sanction Russia ' s two large oil producer , Rosneft and Lukoil , the two big russian energy firm ever target by UK sanction . that be part of an extensive new sanction package of 90 target that include refinery around the world that be responsible for import russian oil , supplier of drone and missile component and 44 shadow fleet vessel , far disrupt the network of tanker that transport Russia ' s oil . the UK have now sanction more shadow fleet vessel than any other partner , take billion of dollar - worth of russian oil off the market . we be sanction not just russian individual and company , but organisation in third country that continue to support the russian war effort with all the damage consequence not just for Ukraine but for Europe ' s stability . the sanction stop UK business and individual from trade or transact with the actor that we have target . importantly , we be also strengthen our co - ordination with the EU , which be finalise a new wave of sanction . we urge country across the world to go far , work with we in target russian oil and gas . President Zelensky have make clear in recent month that he support a full , unconditional ceasefire and be ready to meet Putin for talk to achieve a just and last peace . President Trump have urge peace and ceasefire talk . instead , President Putin seek only to escalate the conflict . that be why this co - ordinate economic pressure be so urgent and important to get he to change course . thirdly , we will ensure that Ukraine get the financial support it need to recover and that Russia be the one to pay . the whole House will be aware of Ukraine ' s acute financing need , both now and in the long term , so we be push at every level to ensure that frozen russian asset can be use to meet those need . they be on the agenda of the G7 Finance Ministers when they meet on 1 October , and the Chancellor be in Washington today , again press for progress with her counterpart , as I have do directly with our european partner . we will continue to argue that the full value of russian sovereign asset must be use to support Ukraine . the EU have develop a proposal for reparation loan for Ukraine , which we welcome . the Prime Minister discuss this with Chancellor Merz and President Macron on Friday , and we expect and hope that further progress will be make in the come week . finally , while we be prepare for this war to continue , we must also keep work and prepare for peace . we have see in recent day what be possible when the international community build a consensus for peace . we know too the huge international co - ordination that have come behind the US peace initiative in the Middle East and the huge international effort that will be need to ensure it be implement . those same principle on international co - ordination and effort over time be important for Ukraine . that be why , together with France , the UK Government have convene over 30 country in several meeting of the coalition of the willing , encourage contribution towards a multinational force that would stand ready to deploy to Ukraine upon a ceasefire or peace agreement to help regenerate Ukraine ' s armed force so that Russia be never able to attack again . we be also implement the 100 - year partnership sign by the Prime Minister and President Zelensky in January , make real our commitment to stand with Ukraine not just today or tomorrow , but over many decade to come . while Ukraine continue to show its endless reserve of strength , Vladimir Putin continue to show his endless depth of depravity . time and again he have show his willingness to threaten the security and sovereignty of other nation , to threaten democracy and undermine the world order and to kidnap ten of thousand of child . from cyber - attack in Moldova to the deployment of mercenary in the Sahel , Russia ' s action seek to topple government , fuel conflict and spread instability far beyond Europe ' s border . that be why the UK continue to support Ukraine — not just to help brave people to defend themselves , but to make clear that aggression do not pay and that Putin do not win , that force will be resist with strength and that criminal will be hold accountable . Ukraine ' s security be our security , and I commend this statement to the House . order . as the Foreign Secretary , with prior agreement with the Chair , be allow to speak a little while long than the allocate time , the same will be allow to those on the Opposition Front Benches . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be grateful to the Foreign Secretary for give I advance sight of her statement . I would also like to welcome she to her place in her new role . we meet again at the Dispatch Box ; we have shadow each other in many role , and this time around it feel like she be follow I in this portfolio . on the occasion of the visit of the Chairman of the Ukrainian Parliament to our Parliament , it be right that Britain should stand with Ukraine on what will soon be the eve of the fourth winter of Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine . Putin ' s relentless effort to obtain the territory of a sovereign european state by barbaric level of force have undermine peace in Europe and the established international order . in recent month , we have see european and NATO airspace brazenly and deliberately violate by russian fighter jet . from Poland to Estonia to Romania , such aggressive provocation must yield strong deterrence against Russia . the same apply to the intensify aerial bombardment of Kyiv . the hundred upon hundred of iranian Shahed drone attack civilian represent a cruel attempt by Putin to psychologically torture Ukrainians , but the bombing will not break their resolve . from Russia ' s kidnapping of ukrainian child to the daily bombardment of propaganda and bomb , Britain must stand firm to level the play field for Ukraine so that it can repel those attack . we must continually refuel our country ' s ability to support Ukraine , and never stand still . be the Foreign Secretary broker more package , here at home or across NATO , to support Ukraine ' s air defence ? the 100 - year partnership agreement with Ukraine must be leveraged to support innovation in defence technology and production within Ukraine right now , while we also learn from Ukraine ' s success in these field . the way the ukrainian people have conduct themselves and continue to fight for what be rightfully theirs in the face of the barbarity and savagery that many of we think be confine to a bygone era will go down in history . we must ensure that Russia ' s defeat go down in history , too . to do that , Britain must lead all ally to raise the price of Russia ' s aggression by cut off Russia ' s financial lifeline , which continue to fund Putin ' s war in Ukraine and fight against our democratic value . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s announcement today of the new entity , include the ship that have be sanction as of today . she will know that China , India and Turkey have become the mainstay of russian oil export , together purchase around $ 380 billion of russian crude . this provide Putin with a lifeline to fund this illegal war and invasion , at the cost of around $ 1 billion per day , so in addition to the new sanction announce today , can the Foreign Secretary confirm whether she or the Prime Minister have have any discussion with India , Turkey and China about refinery in their own country purchase russian oil and then re - export it ? be the UK in a position to spearhead a direct challenge and get this stop ? will the Foreign Secretary challenge european country who be still import russian liquefy natural gas to phase this out far more rapidly ? I recognise and appreciate her comment about EU country and the sanction package . far to the new banking sanction that the Foreign Secretary have announce , will she commit to review what we can do to limit Russia ' s banking sector , include its regional bank ? on the mobilisation of frozen asset , we need to go beyond just offer Ukraine loan from the revenue of the sanctioned asset and find a new formula under the law that mobilise the asset to fund Ukraine ' s defeat of Russia in the immediate term . London be home to our world - class capital market , and the City of London must be deploy to help find solution that our diplomat can then sell to our ally , because this need concerted action . can the Foreign Secretary confirm whether the coalition of the willing , convene in February this year , be as determined as it be then not just to stand with Ukraine but to work to find solution to these major issue ? the UK must commit to spend 3 % on defence by the end of the decade . this be a vital step on our route to the higher sustained spending demand by the new NATO target . in her new role as Foreign Secretary , be the right hon . Lady in discussion with the Chancellor about this ? Britain must be ready for continuous tension with Russia with effective deterrent against sub - conventional threat such as hybrid warfare , sabotage of infrastructure , disinformation , election interference and killing . if we do not put up boundary now , Russia will come close , but it be stoppable . we have see positive development in recent week , include the decisive election result in Moldova that should cement its Euro - atlantic trajectory , but Russia ' s behaviour elsewhere , from Georgia to the Balkans and include the stationing of nuclear weapon in Belarus , be deeply alarming . here at home , there be report that the cyber - attack on Jaguar Land Rover may have emanate from Russia . be the Foreign Secretary able to confirm that attribution ? the whole Euro - Atlantic alliance need to be incredibly robust , because the lesson of the last 20 year be crystal clear and the outcome of the war in Ukraine will shape the future of european global security . President Trump ' s recent remark be absolutely right . our ukrainian friend can regain the territory that be rightfully theirs , and we support they on that . Britain and our european ally must now pull out all the stop to help our ukrainian friend to expedite Putin ' s exit from their country . we should be clear that territorial concession must never happen , as this would be a reward for Putin ' s barbarism . Britain should and can lead the way in weaken Putin ' s war machine with a full range of hard - hit new sanction and broker new military aid package with our ally to ensure that Ukraine have the capability it need to defeat Putin ' s tyranny . I welcome the shadow Foreign Secretary ' s response , and I be glad to face she across the Dispatch Box again . I think she and I have probably miss each other . this time round , we agree on some thing , which be perhaps a new experience for both of we . I check , and I think that the last time the right hon . Lady and I be opposite each other — although we be on the opposite side of the House then — be on 5 September 2022 , the day that Liz Truss be confirm as Prime Minister . it be perhaps not quite such a good day for the right hon . Lady , who then lose her place as Home Secretary . it be also not such a good time for the country . interestingly , after our exchange on that day , the next discussion be on Ukraine . my right hon . friend the Member for Rawmarsh and Conisbrough ( John Healey ) , now the Defence Secretary , speak from the Opposition Benches , begin his remark by observe that it be day 194 of a war that Vladimir Putin have expect to be over inside a week . he salute the bravery of the ukrainian resistance and pledge the Labour party ' s full backing for every aspect of what the right hon . Lady ' s Government be do at the time . now here we be on day 1 , 330 , and all of we in this House be still full of admiration and respect for the ukrainian resistance , and determine to support Ukraine in the face of the continue russian onslaught . I welcome the continuation of the shadow Foreign Secretary ' s cross - party support for the ukrainian people , for the action that we need to continue to take to support Ukraine in its defence , and for the pressure that we need to exert . I can assure she that we will continue to support Ukraine ' s defence , and to look at what more we can do . the Defence Secretary have also set out new partnership ; in particular , we be work with Ukraine on develop new drone technology , learn from its technological experience , and help it with production . the right hon . Lady raise issue about third country — China , India , Turkey and other european country that have continue to be involve in purchase thing from Russia . we want as wide a consensus as possible on economic pressure on Russia over Ukraine . I continue to raise this with many different country , include some of those that that she refer to . also , in our sanction package , we be include sanction against entity operate in third country ; we need to continue to do so . we need to be clear that the ability to target russian sovereign asset need to be about mobilise the asset , and go far to ensure that there be an effective way to do that . we believe that there be , and we have be work with the EU on that . we will continue to put considerable pressure on as many country as possible to join we in take action on russian sovereign asset . I think that all of we in the House — or at least the majority of the party here , with one unfortunate exception — be clear that we need to continue to stand in solidarity with Ukraine , not just now , not just tomorrow , but for the future . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I begin by publicly welcome the Foreign Secretary to her new post , and by echo her comment about the previous Foreign Secretary . I also welcome her commitment to finally use the russian frozen asset . I hope that the situation will be resolve soon , because those asset be need for the defence and reconstruction of Ukraine . I be pleased to see that the Foreign Secretary be go to take further advantage of Britain ' s unique sanction regime by extend it against russian individual and company , but she know — perhaps well than most , give her previous experience — that a regime be only as good as its enforcement , and there be time when door need to be kick down . it worry I that official from the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation tell the Treasury Committee a year ago that they have issue only one £ 15 , 000 fine against a british business for engage with a sanctioned individual . how many british business have face financial penalty for direct or indirect breach of sanction on Russia or the russian state since then , and what have be the value of those fine ? I welcome the point that the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee have raise , and I thank she for her considerable work and expertise , and thank the Committee for its work in this area . as she will know , the Foreign Office set out the framework for sanction and then work with the Treasury on enforcement . follow the publication of the cross - Government review on enforcement in May , the Government be commit to strong action to make compliance easy , but also to deter non - compliance , and to ensure proper enforcement . I be advise that so far in 2025 , Office of Financial Sanctions implementation penalty have total over £ 900 , 000 , and there have be a £ 1 . 1 million compound settlement with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . in April , the National Crime Agency secure the first conviction for breach of russian financial sanction , but I be happy to work with the Chancellor to ensure that my right hon . friend have any further information that she want on that topic . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of her statement . I warmly welcome the announcement of fresh sanction aim at cut Putin ' s oil and gas profit . it be vital that we make use of all the tool at our disposal to undermine his war machine , and we know that oil and gas revenue be primarily use to fund it . these measure be a further step in the right direction , but I encourage the Government to go even far . analysis by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air think - tank show that UK - own or insure liquefy natural gas carrier have facilitate the transport of £ 45 billion of russian gas since the start of the full - scale invasion . that mean that 76 % of the total export value of russian LNG be carry on UK - own or insured vessel . it be unconscionable that UK business be still contribute to Putin ' s coffer , so will the Foreign Secretary commit to ban the provision of maritime service , include transport and insurance , for russian gas ? will she engage directly with the maritime insurance sector , a large proportion of which be base in the UK , to find practical way to implement such a ban ? I be very pleased to hear of the Foreign Secretary ' s ambition to progress plan to use the full value of frozen russian asset to support Ukraine ' s war effort . that be a measure that the liberal Democrats have be push for action on for some month . the Government need to move at pace as Ukraine continue to face Putin ' s relentless assault , so can the Foreign Secretary confirm the timetable she be look at for new fund become available from frozen asset ? can she outline how those fund will be allocate , and if barrier to seize those asset be put in place internationally , can she commit to the UK Government act unilaterally when it come to seize the asset hold in the UK ? it be more than three year since Roman Abramovich sell Chelsea football club . in June , the then Foreign Secretary say that the Government be ready and willing to take legal action to finally secure the £ 2 . 5 billion generate from the sale that be earmark for additional support for Ukraine . it appear , however , that the Government ' s bark have be bad than their bite so far , as we have hear no more about how the Government intend to pursue those asset . what concrete action have the Government take since June to secure they ? we all hope to see a just peace in Ukraine . when we do , thought will switch to reconstruction . can the Secretary of State commit to provide full UK backing , include funding , to the Council of Europe ' s register of damage for Ukraine ? I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson for his question and his continued support for Ukraine . we be determined to tighten the restriction much far , not simply on the oil and gas company , although this be the first time we have sanction these major company , but on the distribution network and those who continue to profit . on 12 September , I announce 100 new sanction , include on 70 more ship in the shadow fleet . today , in the second sanction package that I have announce since be appoint , I have announce sanction on a further 44 shadow fleet ship , because we be clear that the shadow fleet be undermine the impact of the sanction that we have set out . on russian sovereign asset , if what we do be to have a proper impact , both on Russia and on the market , it be right that we should work alongside partner , and we welcome the statement from President von der Leyen and the G7 Finance Ministers . I can tell the hon . Gentleman that this be a huge priority for I and for the Chancellor , who be pursue those exact issue about timetable , and about the final step we need to take around russian sovereign asset in Washington today . the issue of the proceed from the sale of Chelsea football club be a priority for I personally . we must ensure that those proceed can reach humanitarian cause in Ukraine , follow Russia ' s illegal full - scale invasion . I be deeply frustrated that that have not be possible so far , but we be fully prepared to pursue this matter through the court if require , while the door for negotiation remain open . again , I have discuss this matter not just with the Chancellor , but internationally . I thank the Speaker , the Speaker ' s Office and the Deputy Speakers for the gracious welcome they today give Ruslan Stefanchuk , the Speaker of the Rada . also , see the Foreign Secretary in Kyiv on her first foreign visit be a real fillip for the people of Ukraine . I thank the Foreign Secretary for the sanction package , but I would like to ask further question about the seizure of russian asset . I be pleased that we be ready to progress the seizure of russian asset , and that we have announce work with France and Germany , but be we work at pace with our ally to ensure the seizure of russian asset ? ukrainian know that their good chance of win this war will come from the move from freeze to seize asset . will the United Kingdom provide finance for the reparation loan that the EU propose ? I thank my hon . friend for his continued work for many year on Ukraine . it be certainly very good to see he at the event in Kyiv . I can assure he that we think that the new mechanism that the EU have draw up and provide to mobilise effectively the asset that be be hold be really important . we support that work , and we believe that we , the EU and other ally should try to make rapid progress now , because ultimately , the rebuilding of Ukraine and support for Ukraine should be pay for by Russia . I welcome the Foreign Secretary to her new role and commend she on a very strong statement . I welcome the progress be make by the G7 Finance Ministers in DC on seize russian state asset . it be an issue I first start work on three year ago , and I know the Chancellor have continue that work . because of that , there be a body of clear technical analysis that have be do in the Treasury that I think show clearly at this point , first , that there be a sound legal basis for take these asset and use they ; secondly , that there be now a practical way to use they , especially as the bond have mature into cash ; and thirdly , that by act in concert with ally , any risk to financial stability can be absolutely minimise . I urge the Foreign Secretary to show continued UK leadership on this issue , as I know she be , especially share that work with our european ally , because I know she would agree that this be an urgent issue that require action . I welcome all the point make by the former Prime Minister . I pay tribute to the work he do both as Chancellor and as Prime Minister to support Ukraine and the defence of Ukraine — in particular this work around russian sovereign asset , as well as find different way to ensure that market stability remain and that we have the proper financial safeguard in place , while also ensure that the money can get to Ukraine . I have speak to colleague in Belgium and France over the last week . as the right hon . Member will know , the Prime Minister have discuss this with french and german counterpart in the last week as well . we will continue to press on every avenue to make the progress that he talk about . I welcome my right hon . friend to her place and I welcome her statement . in September , the Yale School of Public Health Humanitarian Research Lab reveal that the number of facility that Russia be use in its force deportation of ukrainian child have rise from 53 to 210 . that report highlight that 110 facility be be use to re - educate child , and that at 39 of those facility military training be be provide to train ukrainian child to throw the grenade and pilot the drone that be destroy their home and kill their family . could my right hon . friend outline what further step be be take to relocate , rescue and return those child to their family ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s point . the forcible deportation — the kidnapping — of almost 20 , 000 ukrainian child by Russia be one of the most disturbing aspect of this war . I agree with my hon . friend about the importance of support those family . we have be support organisation such as Bring Kids back UA and Save Ukraine , which be support effort to return ukrainian child . just two week ago , Baroness Harman attend the International Coalition for the Return of ukrainian Children event at the UN General Assembly . we will continue to do all we can to support the return of those child . I call the Father of the House . fifty year ago , I be work down the corridor here for Margaret Thatcher . I make that point to give an opportunity to the Foreign Secretary to pay tribute , on the centenary of her birth , to the lady who win the cold war with Ronald Reagan . the other point I want to make be : why do we win the cold war ? we do not fire a single bullet ; it be all about economic pressure on the Soviet Union — Russia ' s precursor , of course . follow the point make by the former Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , I think the whole House be determine and unite on the issue of russian asset . I also serve on the Council of Europe , and everybody there be pass motion try to propel this forward . be the Foreign Secretary confident that we can make progress on this , because the way to bring down this regime and end the war be , as we do with the Soviet Union , to break they economically ? I think all of we , no matter our party , would recognise the challenging nature of the job for all Prime Ministers . the Father of the House will understand that in a coalmine constituency like mine , there be obviously very strong view against the former Prime Minister to whom he refer , but I pay tribute to his long service in this place , which he also mention . there be strong agreement across this House : we have to get those asset mobilise , and get that investment and support into Ukraine . it be right that Russia should pay the price for reconstruct , rebuild and also defend Ukraine . it be great to see the Secretary of State out in Ukraine ; I know it be very much appreciate by our ukrainian colleague . she will be well aware that foreign investment be absolutely vital to the economy and to the reconstruction of Ukraine . what talk have she have with ministerial colleague and other about scheme such as the one suggest by the British Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce , which propose use frozen russian asset and / or western Government guarantee administer by the World Bank to provide great availability of risk insurance for british investor in Ukraine ? my hon . friend be right that we need to look at different , innovative way of provide the financial support , and the commitment and investment , that Ukraine will need . obviously , there be immediate issue around defence equipment and support , include support for the energy infrastructure that we be provide , but there will also be issue around long - term investment and we should look at innovative way to support that . I be the chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on Magnitsky sanction and reparation , and we have encourage the last Government and the present Government to be much more aggressive about their sanction regime . when we look at the number of people who have be sanction , it do not compare to what the United States and many other have do . first , it be long overdue that the whole business of the money from the Chelsea sale be settle ; it beggar belief that we have not manage to get that one do . I agree with my right hon . friend the Prime Minister — the ex - Prime Minister , rather ; some of we live in hope . the shadow fleet could easily be attack by sanction british marine insurer who have insure those ship . without that insurance , they will not be put to sea because they will have no financial backing for it . why we have not do that up until now be a complete mystery to I . that be surely something we should get on with straightaway , because we can act on it immediately . I thank the right hon . member for his long - stand commitment on sanction , and on Russia and Ukraine . the impact of the sanction be that any company or any UK company or resident that transact with , as well as trade with , those sanction body , will therefore be cover by the sanction as well . we will continue to look at what far we can do to keep increase the pressure on Russia . on the Chelsea football club proceed , I strongly agree that this need to move as swiftly as possible , and I can assure he that it have be something on which I have focus significantly since I arrive in post . we will continue to do all we can in those area to support Ukraine . my constituent be a refugee from Ukraine whose home and livelihood be destroy in Ukraine . she contact I because of the uncertainty of her visa situation . her three - year visa will expire in December , but she can not apply for extension until November , which be prevent she from get a new job and secure a new tenancy agreement . she be at risk of become homeless in the come week . I recognise that my right hon . friend be now the Foreign Secretary , but she know the Home Office well . what conversation have she have with colleague from the Home Office about review the ukrainian visa scheme so that Ukrainians can rebuild their life in this country ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s support for refugee and for those who have come here on the Homes for Ukraine scheme and other ukrainian scheme . as she will know , the Government have set out provision for the extension of the visa . I think the point to which she refer be to do with the Home Office mechanism and the timing of when application can go in . I will raise that issue with the Home Secretary . I call a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee . the Foreign Secretary mention that Speaker Stefanchuk of the Ukrainian Parliament — the Rada — be in the Gallery early today . he also meet member of the all - party parliamentary group on Ukraine , when he draw a parallel between western sanction package and version of the Apple iPhone : it feel like we see a new one every other week . rather than the gradual introduction of sanction on Russia , will the Foreign Secretary work with the United States and other ally to introduce a sanction package that will really hurt russian oligarch in the pocket ? I want to see the strong possible economic pressure on Russia — from every avenue , frankly . we have discuss that issue extensively with the US and Europe . I have discuss it with my Foreign Minister colleague and the Chancellor discuss it with her Finance Minister colleague . we want to see the strong package . however , it be right to continue introduce new sanction as soon as we have the evidence ready . I do not think that we should wait until more work can be do or more agreement reach . if we have the evidence to be able to introduce another set of sanction , we should get on with it because we need to maximise the economic pressure as rapidly as we can to put pressure on Putin ' s war machine . do the Foreign Secretary agree that more must be do to inform not just the british public , but country that be equivocal in their support for Ukraine , that Russia ' s illegal invasion be particularly egregious in its cynical and cruel targeting of civilian and civilian infrastructure ? I pay tribute to a member of Rugby ' s ukrainian community , who tell I today : " Russia strike not only the frontline but home , hospital and power plant . whole region be leave in darkness after systematic attack . just recently , a maternity hospital in Sumy be target . yet people wake up after night of bombardment and go to work and school — the unimaginable have become normal . that be the true horror . " do the Foreign Secretary agree that those horror can only strengthen our resolve in support Ukraine ? we must maintain the strong of resolve in support Ukraine . I have speak to family and child who will have to sleep in corridor or underground car park tonight to avoid drone attack , but will still get up for school and carry on with their life each day . the ukrainian people be show resilience , and we will continue to support they . the only thing wrong with the Foreign Secretary ' s admirable statement be the fact that it be make by a british Foreign Secretary rather than by the President of the United States , give that , only a few month ago , President Trump say that President Zelensky have few , if any , card to play . the Foreign Secretary take a much more optimistic view of the geopolitical situation as regard the invasion of Ukraine . have she identify any sign that the leader of the free world be come to a more realistic view of the nature of the killer in the Kremlin ? we have discuss this issue considerably with the US . I welcome President Trump ' s decision to allow NATO ally to purchase vital US military equipment for Ukraine ' s defence , include Patriot missile . President Trump call for a peace process , and President Zelensky be ready to have those peace discussion , but President Putin have do the opposite . there be a grow sense of frustration , which everybody can see , about the fact that President Putin have just ignore the request for peace discussion and be instead seek to do the opposite — not just in Ukraine but in attempt to destabilise NATO airspace . the NATO Parliamentary Assembly delegation — of which the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) , who be sit on the Opposition Front Bench , be deputy leader — meet the ukrainian delegation at the weekend and also hear from President Zelensky . the line that we hear time and again from they be about the need for more weapon , equipment and munition , particularly deep - fire missile and drone munition . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement . a lot have be say about the need to unfreeze russian asset and use their full value . she say that work be be do on that . we in this House have on numerous occasion see thing happen quickly ; thing need to move at pace to ensure that the free industrial capacity that Ukraine still have , which can make those thing , be fund and use as quickly as possible . I welcome my hon . friend ' s point . we want progress to be make as rapidly as possible . he will know that the UK have step up support for Ukraine this year , which include £ 4 . 5 billion of military support — more than ever before — and thousand of air defence missile and drone . we want to go far with the russian sovereign asset process . rise — Order . I remind colleague that we have another statement follow by the business of the day . question do not require a preamble . they should be sharp and to the point . I congratulate the Foreign Secretary on her appointment and welcome her remark about the consensus on the war in Ukraine hold up well across the vast majority of the Chamber . she be a fresh set of eye . will she look at the efficiency of some of the aid ? might we work more closely with organisation such as the Come back alive foundation , or can more work be do in Ukraine ? I think that the UK be do a good job on this , but a fresh set of eye be always welcome . we always want to ensure that we provide aid and defence support in the most effective way and , crucially , in partnership with Ukraine , which , as a sovereign nation , know where its great need lie . that be what we support . I welcome the measure that have be announce , particularly on oil and gas revenue . they come as Russia continue to target ukrainian energy infrastructure , include a state - run power plant last night . how be the Government help ukrainian home to stay warm over winter , and will the Foreign Secretary join I in pay tribute to the Huddersfield Ukrainian club , which have continue to support Ukrainians who have arrive in Huddersfield since the conflict begin ? I welcome the support that my hon . friend ' s community be provide in her constituency . that have happen right across the country . she be right to focus on the impact on family . in target that infrastructure , Russia be deliberately target the heating and lighting of family across Ukraine as they go into winter . we have just announce — I announce it in Kyiv — a £ 42 million energy support package that be design exactly to keep home warm and support the resilience of the ukrainian people through the winter . give that time be the most precious commodity in war , and that , as former head of MI5 Eliza Manningham - Buller say , Britain may already be at war with Russia , why have we allow Russia so much time to build up a stock of 155 mm shell , for example — three time the quantity of the entire european and american stock of 155 shell ? how long do Ukraine now have to hold out against Russia , which have mobilise its entire economy and put it on a war foot to win the war at almost any cost to Russia itself ? do we not have to up our long - range weapon and other military support to help Ukraine finish and win this war ? as I just set out , the UK have step up support for Ukraine this year , provide £ 4 . 5 billion of military support . we will need to continue provide military support to Ukraine , but we also need to encourage as many other ally as possible to do likewise . when meet the ukrainian Prime Minister and President in Kyiv , I be strike by how much they see the UK as a lead ally , but they recognise the need for international partnership and support . we need to continue escalate support . that be why we also need pressure on the economic side as well as on the defence side . it be only by that combine concerted effort that we will be able to affect the course of the war . it be a privilege to meet the Chair of the Rada today and to add my voice to this House ' s share commitment to stand with Ukraine and in defence of our democratic value . to increase economic pressure on Russia , we must sanction russian - link country operate in third country , include in the energy sector . will the Foreign Secretary assure the House that she will apply maximum pressure on such company , even when they be base outside Russia itself ? I agree with my hon . friend . as part of the sanction package announce in September and this month , we be look increasingly at entity in third country that continue to heavily support the transit and export of russian oil and gas , in order to ensure that those sanction can really bite . I have just return from Ukraine , where I learn at first hand about the challenge that both the military and the emergency service face in deal with unexploded ordnance ; I see its impact when I visit the heroic patient at Superhumans , the prosthetic supercentre in Lviv . there be over 60 , 000 amputee in Ukraine as a result of the war and the need be immense , so will the Secretary of State consider far strengthen the strategic health alliance and UK - Ukraine trauma recovery with additional funding to the £ 1 . 2 million already pledge ? alongside our ally , we will continue to look at the different form and way in which our support can be provide . we have particularly highlight support for energy infrastructure and home , but the hon . member be right to highlight the resilience and determination of the ukrainian emergency service , who have to respond every morning to see where strike have take place , and in the middle of the night when the drone arrive . we should all pay tribute to their bravery and strength . all of we who have visit Ukraine will know the stoicism of the people . despite be bombard night after night , they continue to rebuild , often support by UK business and individual , as well as other from across the European Union . do the Foreign Secretary agree that we must do more to continue to encourage business and individual to support Ukraine in any way that they can , but that ultimately it be Putin ' s responsibility — and his alone — to pay for the damage that he be cause to the country ? I agree . we expect Putin and Russia to pay for the damage that they be do through the unprovoked aggression of their invasion of Ukraine . we will continue to support Ukraine and encourage everybody else to do so , but ultimately we need Russia to pay for the damage that they have do . I welcome many of the measure that the Foreign Secretary have outline today . like she , I have visit Ukraine and see the impact of the attack from Putin and his flunky and , like she , I have see the resilience of the ukrainian people . I believe , as we all do in the Chamber , that Putin and his flunky must pay for their crime . will the Foreign Secretary confirm whether the UK Government would support pursue legally those individual responsible for the crime , through the International Criminal Court ? as the hon . Lady will know , we continue to support international law and international court process . she be right to say that Russia ultimately need to pay the price and to be hold accountable for the damage it be do . I hope she also agree that Kyiv be an incredibly beautiful city , where many people be go about their daily life undeterred , determine not to let Russia win . the politician , civilian and soldier I speak to last month in Kyiv be unambiguous when ask what be the good thing the UK could do to help they win the war . the hundred of billion of dollar of frozen russian asset that they currently can not deploy could help they bolster their military and swing the war decisively in their favour . on their behalf , will the Foreign Secretary use every power available to she to unlock those asset and put they in the service of the people of Ukraine ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s support for unlock russian sovereign asset . the Chancellor be raise that issue in Washington with international partner as I speak . I welcome the right hon . Lady to her place . the experience that she bring from her previous role will benefit we all and I thank she for her answer . Putin will have watch the Israel - Gaza problem carefully , and he will know that all eye be turn to Russia to end the unnecessary conflict in Ukraine . what further step can we take , in co - operation with our american ally , to seize this opportunity to end bloodshed and to restore education and hope for ukrainian child , thereby ensure that Putin realise that he have no option other than the cessation of russian aggression ? I thank the hon . member for his kind word . I agree with he that there must be no other option for Putin than to cease aggression and that this be ultimately about hope for ukrainian child . I strongly welcome the sanction target the $ 108 billion in oil revenue that the Kremlin receive last year and the progress on the $ 350 billion in frozen russian sovereign asset . I applaud the Foreign Secretary and the Chancellor for their effort in build a coalition with the EU and other to move from use the interest payment to use the capital . do she agree that that recent breakthrough show that legally this money should be treat as a downpayment on the reparation for the horrific harm that Russia have cause , which we know it will do everything to avoid pay ? my hon . friend make an important point . the EU have set out work link the issue around asset to reparation payment . we welcome that work and we believe that there be a strong basis to go forward . we need to do so in a co - ordinate way and recognise the importance of support Ukraine . I welcome the Government ' s progress on the frozen russian asset , but it be disappointing that , as yet , they be allocate only to recovery and not military capability , because Russia be spend $ 40 billion more than Ukraine and her western ally on the war in Ukraine . the courage of ukrainian force have bring Russia to a standstill , but do the Foreign Secretary agree that if those frozen asset be use today to close and exceed that military spending gap , Ukraine would have a path not just to stop Russia but to win ? we be already increase UK military support , and we want to see that happen across the board . the way to put the great pressure on Russia will always be through a mix of different measure , include direct defence support , support for the resilience of the Ukraine people through their basic energy infrastructure and ensure that they and their community can keep go , and by establish strong economic pressure on Russia , so that it be put in a position where it have to change course . all those thing need to happen at once to have a significant impact on the way that Putin be behave . I thank the Foreign Secretary for her statement and for her recent decision , when she be Home Secretary , about the Ukraine permission extension scheme . do she agree that when Putin probe weakness we must respond by demonstrate strength ? do she far agree that the post - war development of Ukraine ' s significant energy resource , which may require british technical expertise , would serve the dual purpose of help to reconstruct Ukraine ' s shattered economy and increase Europe ' s security of energy supply ? I agree with my hon . friend that Ukraine ' s security be Europe ' s security in many different way , include in defence and in energy . that be why it be so important that we should continue to support Ukraine and Ukrainians in the UK , who come to find safety at the beginning of the war . early this year , I join a brilliant organisation call Mighty Convoy to drive some refurbish ambulance full of medical supply to Ukraine . while we be there , we bump into another organisation call FIRE AID that take refurbish fire engine to Ukraine from the UK . that equipment be vital for the war effort , but in addition the Ukrainians we meet say that it be a great morale boost to know that not only be the british Government behind their war effort , but the british public be too . will the Foreign Secretary join I in thank all the volunteer from the UK who drive equipment to Ukraine to help with that war effort ? the hon . Member make an important point about the strength of support from across the country , from community and civil society . at a time when Ukrainians be show such resilience and strength , it be important for they to hear about that support and to know that people across the UK have huge respect for what they be do and will continue to support it . I welcome the work of different organisation to raise fund and provide support for Ukraine . may I thank the Foreign Secretary for extend the Homes for Ukraine scheme by two year in her previous role ? I welcome she to her new role . this morning , the Chair of the Rada speak to the parliamentary group and talk of how russian manufacturer be use advanced electronic from white good to build their drone . what will the Foreign Secretary do to prevent such vital equipment go to they through the export of seemingly harmless white good ? the hon . member be right to raise issue about broad technology . that be why we need to ensure that our sanction regime be continually update and respond . we have see immense improvement in ukrainian technology on different response , particularly around drone technology and counter drone technology . we need to recognise the expertise and strength of the ukrainian people and the country of Ukraine and to continue to show our support at every level . that conclude the statement on Ukraine . I will allow the Front Benchers a few moment to shuffle over as we prepare for the second statement . pride in Place Order . Mr Waugh , you do not cross the Front Bench , even to take a shortcut . it be not on . with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish to make a statement on the action we be take to restore pride in place . Britain ' s renewal be a drive mission of this Labour Government , and we know that that must be see , feel and hear in every single neighbourhood . our identity , sense of patriotism and feeling of belong can all depend on the condition of our local area and the view from our doorstep . our neighbourhood be the nation ' s barometer for whether all of we in this House be do our job . under 14 year of conservative failure , the needle of that barometer have increasingly point in the wrong direction . the effect of this decline in pride in place have be corrosive . it have erode people ' s trust in politic and the state , create a sense of unfairness and that some place have fare well than other , and open the door to the plastic patriot in the Reform party , who say that there be a simple answer . let I say from the start that we be under no illusion about the complex cause of , and answer to , this decline . the failure of the Conservatives properly to fund local government , the sharp transition away from industry and the broken Tory promise of level up must shoulder part of the blame . we can not and will not pretend that the legacy of any of those issue can be reverse overnight , but , as both a Labour Government and a Parliament , we can be confident that the way in which we restore pride in place lie not in this Chamber or the corridor of Whitehall ; the answer be in the community that we each represent . our job be to give our constituent the investment and power that they need , so that they can deliver the change they want to see in their community . that be why we have announce the pride in place programme , back up by £ 5 billion . this be a priority for the Prime Minister , choose renewal over decline and unity over division . this be our plan for change in action , give power and pride back to the people who make Britain great . there be two category of investment . the first , the main programme , be the flagship pride in place programme , which will provide up to £ 20 million of funding and support to each area over the course of a decade , focus on specific neighbourhood . community will need to decide how that funding be spend . we will establish a neighbourhood board in every place , make up of local people . resident , business owner and community leader will come together alongside their Member of Parliament to come up with a 10 - year plan for this investment . they could choose to bring a derelict pub back into use for the community , transform a board - up shop into a wellbeing hub , improve local transport link , create a new playground or roll out a community - level service to help with the cost of living . local people know well what change be need . this programme be about local community take back control . as long as the plan provide value for money , the board will have our full support to deliver the change that the community need . we be take inspiration from the new deal for community , which , under the last Labour Government , put local community in charge of renew their neighbourhood , but we be also adapt to the world as we find it today and learn the lesson of what do and do not work from the last time around . the second programme , the pride in place impact fund , will provide a short - term injection of £ 1 . 5 million per place . it will be deliver by local authority for the most immediate result in three phase : community space , public space and high street and town centre revitalisation . despite the short timeframe of the fund , there be still an important emphasis on local collaboration . we will ask local community to work closely with mps and local authority to ensure that investment decision reflect local priority and community need . our economic situation mean that we be not in a position to cover everywhere that would benefit from this programme . we have therefore prioritise place with the high level of need — those place that have be leave behind and let down , and those community that be hollow out over 14 year of conservative austerity , for which the Conservatives should hang their head in shame . it be important to this Labour Government that every community have the power to renew their area , so alongside this investment we have publish the pride in place strategy . the purpose of the strategy be to promote the same principle of community power across the entire country , and it centre on three aim . the first aim , build strong community , mean bring people together . we see that as the foundation for a great sense of belong and local pride . when people spend time with each other in their community , include those from different background , they see that they have more in common than separate they . this sense of share endeavour mean that community be more likely to take step to improve their local area . as part of that , we will fund locally lead intervention to build community resilience , encourage volunteer through co - produce policy , and tackle loneliness . we recognise that that can be deliver only by a whole - of - Government approach , so this section of the strategy include policy from the Department for Culture , Media and Sport and the Home Office . the second aim , create thriving place , be how we promote pride in place in the most direct sense : by improve how the public realm look . as a government , we see a direct link between the decline appearance of our local neighbourhood and how people feel about not just their immediate area , but the country and the world around they . we acknowledge that the performance of the public realm be often a reflection of the economy and the work of local authority , which be why we be focus on growth and on fix the foundation of local government , but even in time when the economy have be strong and local government be fund properly , the effect have not always be feel in the public realm . fix that disconnect be the inspiration for policy to encourage the application of shopfront design guide as well as the use of clean - up power . what link all the policy in this section of the paper be that they empower our community to create thrive place . this be not an attempt to micromanage change from Whitehall . the final strand , help community to take back control of their own life and area , set out our plan to give people a strong voice in what matter to they . each of we in the House will have speak to constituent who talk of helplessness , when the place that they live in be change in way that they do not ask for and that they feel they have no control over . sometimes it be about antisocial behaviour on their estate ; other time , it be about the shop be lose from the high street . People want to be in control of their surrounding , but that be such a distant concept when they do not feel safe go out at night or do not have a say over how their town centre look . a lot of those feeling stem from the effect of the Conservative Government ' s 14 year of austerity , which take library and leisure centre from some of the most deprived and disadvantaged community . when combine with the closure of pub , sport club and social club , it mean that for much of the country there be few and few place for people to come together and take pride in . we be therefore introduce a community right to buy , to give local resident new power to save treasured asset ; give more people a say in their local economy by create a new co - operative development unit in my Department ; and require all authority in England to establish effective neighbourhood governance . this Labour Government ' s pride in place programme be an investment in the UK ' s future , back the true patriot who build up our community across every corner of the country . alongside our strategy , it aim to spark a new way of governing , where power and resource be more readily share with our community . however , like devolution , this need to be the start of a process rather than a single event . we have specifically design both investment programme with a guarantee role for local member of Parliament , so I finish by encourage member from across the House to get involve . at a time when trust be low and the demand for change be high , this be an opportunity for all of we to make a real , tangible difference to our community by give real power to those we be elect to serve . I call the shadow Minister . this statement speak of pride . conservative Members have pride in our local pub , 200 of which have close in the past six month , hammer by the Labour party ' s business rate rise . we have pride in our restaurant , which be close in record number under the business rate burden impose by this Government . we be proud of our local shop , which — accord to the British Retail Consortium — be buckling under an additional £ 7 billion of annual cost impose by this Government . we be proud of our family business , the bedrock of our high street , which be buckling under new taxis introduce by this Government . we be proud of our family farm , which be also buckle under the new taxis impose by this Government . we be proud of our local council , which face maxe out their council tax rate . we hear of £ 20 million at a local level , but council across the country be maxe out their council tax , not to invest in new local service , but to pay an additional £ 1 . 5 billion of annual cost impose on they by this Government ' s job tax — every year , when it come to deliver service , a net £ 1 . 5 billion bad off . we be proud of the worker of this country , of whom there be 4 million more when the conservative party leave office last year . in the retail sector alone , 97 , 000 have lose their job since this Government take office . as such , this programme be a fig leaf — element relabelle from past programme such as the long - term plan for town , slightly redirect to labour area — that cover up a collapse in the ability of our elect local representative to invest in their community . as with so many thing , that collapse get bad every day under the Labour party . let I pose some specific question to the Minister . first , why be there so much complex governance around this ? why not listen to the cry of our local leader in Croydon , Somerset and Hertfordshire — people across the political spectrum who be say , " why not just give the council the money to get on with this ? why tie this up in bureaucracy and red tape ? " how much of this money have simply be rebadge from other , previously announce Government programme ? why the change in methodology ? in the interest of transparency , can the Minister set out for the House why the funding now seem to be land in area that be more likely to support the Labour party ? how much of this funding sit outside of the 2025 spending review , and be therefore deeply in question from the start ? how much of this money — like so many of this Government ' s announcement , such as on housing — have be put in the public domain , but promise as spend towards the tail - end of the next Parliament , perhaps the very definition of jam tomorrow ? finally , can the Minister tell we how today ' s announcement will help small business on all our high street across our country to recover from her colleague the Chancellor ' s £ 2 . 7 billion tax hike in this year alone ? I be disappoint by the hon . member ' s lack of contrition and his failure to say sorry . the Conservatives preside over 14 year of failure , during which , over a period of austerity , local government and local civic institution be denude and deprive community be hollow out . he say that we be fund area of deprivation — that be because we actually care about fund those area . candidly , if I have the record of the last government , I would not stand at the Dispatch Box and give we lecture . let I pick up the specific question that the hon . Member ask . first , why be we tie this up in process ? there be no process , but we have say that community should be in charge . the difference between this scheme and the thing do by the last Government be that we want to put community in the drive seat and give they power . we want local authority to enable and facilitate , but we absolutely need our community leader . member across the House will know they — the people who be network , championing and make change happen . we want they around the table , drive the change that their community need . on the methodology , the conservative party obviously do some fiddling , but we do not do that . we have focus on two metric : multiple deprivation and community need . that be put investment into the area that most need it , because they be both deprive and , critically , have low social infrastructure and social capital . that be why we be fund the area that we be fund . we all remember the Conservatives ' last Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , say that they actively divert funding away from area of deprivation . that be something that the Labour party will not do and have not do . finally , turn to the funding profile , we be desperate to move with momentum . we want to get the investment out . it be a 10 - year commitment — that be an absolute game changer . no Government have ever say to community , " come up with an investment plan and we will fund you over a decade . " we think that be game change for community on the ground , but we be not go to wait . we be already give programme capital investment to the 75 place that be in phase 1 , in order to start the work of kick - start that programme , and then their funding will flow next year . for those place in phase 2 , capital and capacity investment will be go into they from next year and then flow in the year after . we be very clear about this opportunity for our community . this be not about party politic , so I be incredibly disappoint by the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) . this be an opportunity to support part of our country that have be absolutely hollow out . I would expect a bit more contrition . [ hon . member : " why ? " ] because of your record . because you sit — Order . " because of your record " ? my record ? " because of you " ? I ? let we temper our language , low the temperature and continue . apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . because of the Conservatives ' record , I would expect a little bit more contrition . we be focus on the task ahead , which be the opportunity to drive change in our community . I hope Members across the House can join we in that endeavour . the £ 5 billion investment in the pride in place programme mean that Brinnington and Stockport will benefit from a £ 20 million investment . what do the Minister think of the former Government ' s levelling - up slogan , which in reality be a levelling - down agenda for opportunity , ambition and trust ? my hon . friend be completely right — levelling up be a hollow slogan . we see from the record that there be no substance behind it . unlike the conservative party , we be do the job of invest in our community , put they in the drive seat . that will be a game changer in constituency such as my hon . friend ' s . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the Minister to her place . liberal Democrats welcome the Government ' s commitment to invest in high street and community — make our local centre thrive be a cause that all of we across this House share . however , despite the strategy talk about empowerment and the Government previously announce that they would simplify the system and consolidate grant , this strategy do the opposite by create a patchwork of small ringfence grant for certain area with strict rule on how local authority can spend their funding . however , what go unsaid in the strategy be perhaps as important . the importance of community asset such as library and swimming pool be acknowledge in the strategy , as be the lamenting of their loss , but the strategy neglect to mention the deep cause of those sell - off . local authority face ever - grow crisis in fund statutory service that they have to fund accord to Government rule , particularly social care and provision for special educational need and disability , and be force to sell asset to keep those service go . in this year alone £ 1 . 3 billion of public asset have be sell off , nearly three time the amount of the annual funding announce today . in my constituency , and in Somerset as a whole , more than two third of council tax payment go towards the funding of care for child and adult . last year the county succeed in plug a £ 55 million shortfall , but that feat will become hard to achieve each year . pride in place will struggle to succeed unless the government fix the care crisis . council tax payer should not be bail out the government when it come to their duty to provide a care and SEND system that work . investment in the high street be welcome , but be no substitute for give local authority the mean to protect their service and asset into the future . will the Minister tell we what plan the Government have to relieve the care funding crisis at local level , so that community can keep and maintain the service and asset that they value most ? I will take each of those point in turn . this be about empowerment . we be drive through what we believe be the big boost to devolution in a generation , and there be three strand to that . first , we be put community at the heart of the strategy . we have design it in a way that do not just mean that local authority be in the drive seat , because we consider it critical to put community leader at the heart of it . this be an opportunity for we to galvanise our community , to get people from diverse background round the table and , crucially , to build momentum to drive the change that they want to see . we do not resile from that , because we think it be absolutely the right approach . alongside it , however , we be give more power to local authority , whether that mean multi - year funding or consolidate the local government finance system so that authority have more flexibility . we see they as a key partner in the driving of change on the ground . thirdly , as we create strategic authority there will be the big tranche of devolution to our city region and county region mayor that we have see so far . take together , those three strand be about fundamentally shift and transfer power from the centre to place , so that we can deliver the change that people want . there have be a huge sell - off of asset . that be the legacy of the last 14 year , and it be a tragedy for our community . we have introduce the community right to buy so that community be able to identify asset of community value and to buy they , and support from pride in place give they an opportunity to put investment behind that . finally , the hon . Gentleman ask about the critical issue of local government funding . Labour Members entirely understand the pressure that local government be under . there have be 14 year of austerity , drive by the Conservatives , and local authority be have to deal with a very difficult context . that be why we have move towards a multi - year funding settlement , and why we give a huge boost to local government financing last year . over the course of the spending review , there will be a real - term increase in local government spending power . it be tight , but we be do our part as a government to ensure that local government can deliver for our community . my colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care be drive through critical reform that will address some of the pressure that we know exist in our social care system . I welcome this Labour Government ' s £ 22 million investment in Fairfield in my constituency , which be ignore by the Conservatives . do the Minister agree that it be crucial for this programme to provide not just new money , but new power for local people to decide how it be spend ? will she confirm , for the avoidance of doubt , that the money should not be use to deliver core council service ? absolutely . let I put it on record that we want community to be in the drive seat . that be how this differ from programme organise under the last government , and if we get it right , it will have a huge , galvanise potential . what we want to militate against be the possibility of its just go towards " business as usual " . if we can bring people from community to the table and get they to invest in the thing that matter to they , but can also generate community wealth , this will be a potential game changer . may I congratulate the hon . Lady on her new role , and , perhaps , strike a more slightly consensual note ? in Sutton Coldfield we welcome this initiative . it be good that it build on the town fund set up by the last government , and we in the royal town be very pleased to be part of it . I can tell the hon . Lady that we be undertake extensive community consultation , lead by Royal Sutton Coldfield Town Council and its leader , Simon Ward , and that our local board , under the chairmanship of Doug Wright MBE , be forge ahead and already make considerable progress . may I invite she — as I invite her predecessor — to pay a state visit to the royal town of Sutton Coldfield , where she can see how we will use this money to the good possible advantage ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for tell we about the progress on his patch . it be incredibly encouraging to see the work that have already be do , whether through the local authority , exist board or the come together of community leader . I ask all member who can give example of this work well to reach out to other member , on both side of the House , so that those example can be share . I look forward to travel across the country and see pride in place in practice . I warmly welcome the £ 20 million pride in place fund for the Hawkesley estate in my constituency . it stand in stark contrast to the hope and expectation that be allow to be build under the last government for £ 11 million for Northfield ' s high street in the second - round bid for the levelling - up fund , which be cruelly dash when not one penny be allocate to the city of Birmingham . do my hon . friend agree that this will not be , and can not be , some lengthy bureaucratic process ? of course our council must be essential partner , but will she confirm that the priority will be set in the community themselves ? absolutely . we be try to make this as permissive as possible , and we want community to genuinely choose the scheme and project that will work in their area . as long as the community represent in the neighbourhood board be behind an area and be confident that it deliver value for money for they , we will step aside and let they get on with it , because that be absolutely the right approach . my constituent in Rowner be delighted to hear that they have be choose for pride in place funding , but they be now a little bit worried , and I hope that the Minister can help we . my constituent fear that rather than the money be spend on project that will change life in Rowner in a meaningful way , our Liberal Democrat council will attempt to siphon some of it off to bankroll one of its vanity project , namely the Criterion , a dilapidated former bingo hall . I be pleased that this funding come with some flexibility , but what protection will the Minister introduce to prevent the money from be fritter away on white elephant by unscrupulous council ? I shall not comment on the specific of the council , but what I will say be that we be very clear about the fact that the local community should be in the drive seat . the funding be flow through council because they have accounting officer responsibility , but the decision need to be make by the neighbourhood board . my plea to member on both side of the House be this : get the neighbourhood board up and run . the recruitment of the chair be key , and that be a joint endeavour between local authority and mp . the mps must be consult , and must have the final say in who the chair be . the chair can then ensure that the right voice be sit round the table . ultimately , the funding will go to back an investment and regeneration plan that the board will develop . that will make it very hard for particular long - stand project to be fund : this must be part of a plan that be support by the neighbourhood board , and the investment will flow into that . like other , I welcome this investment , particularly the investment initially in Merthyr Tydfil and latterly in Rhondda Cynon Taf , which cover the aberdare part of my constituency . it will make a real difference to the community . I be sure the Minister agree that it be crucial , indeed critical , for real engagement to take place with community when it come to how this money be spend , but can she say a little about any discussion that be take place about a replacement for the share prosperity fund , which will remain until March next year ? the shared prosperity fund will come to an end in March next year . we will set out the detail of a local growth fund , which will be gear towards the area of the country that we think need it the most : our mayoral authority in the north and the midland . we will share detail of that in due course . borderland be a fully - fund initiative launch by the former Government , and it be now support by the Department , the Scottish Government and the Scotland Office here in Westminster . it be design to meet all the objective that she have set out in the south of Scotland , Cumbria and Northumberland , but for some reason , only a very small proportion of the money have get out the door . can the hon . Lady , in conjunction with the Scotland Office , do a full drain up to understand why the money be not get to the community project that it be design to support ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise that issue . I be very happy to take it away , and to work with the Scotland Office to understand why the money have be block . we be really keen to move at pace . we want to get investment into our community , and we want thing to start happen , so if we can find way to unblock the investment , we absolutely shall . may I welcome the Minister to her place , and say what an encouraging start this be ? all the funding that my community be receive be very welcome , and it be such a contrast to the previous regime ' s approach , where we have the crumb off the table , and a politically motivate process in which community have to bid against each other in a system that be essentially rig . it be always about what the Government want to spend the money on , not what community decide their priority be . since the announcement of pride in place , I have have so many constituent come forward with great idea . what assurance can the Minister give I that their voice will really count ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to point out the difference in approach — both in allocation and in the power that we be genuinely try to give community — between this Government and the last government . we be very clear that community be in the drive seat . the conservative party point out that thing be be make " complex " , but I do not think they be . we be create a route that allow community to be in the drive seat ; we have design the programme with that intent . we have community delivery unit that will be work on the ground alongside member of Parliament to make sure that community be genuinely drive and shape this , and that we can unlock the huge potential to change our place . I congratulate the Minister on her appointment and welcome the core principle that she describe : give our community the power to decide how to put money to good use . I be delighted that Torbay have be award two tranche of pride in place funding . however , it be a perverse badge of honour , because it demonstrate that we be the most deprived local authority in the south - west of England , the Conservatives have short - change we . another challenge in Torbay be the fact that social rent home account for only 7 % of our housing . will the Minister reflect on how the whole government can try to meet the desperate need for social housing in Torbay , which have less than half the national average ? I thank the hon . member for raise the critical issue of housing . I be incredibly proud that this Government be put record investment into social and affordable housing — £ 39 billion — because we absolutely recognise that if we be to tackle poverty and deprivation , we must get to the root cause of the housing crisis . we have to make sure that affordable housing be an absolutely right , so that people in our community can afford a roof over their head . that should not be a distant dream for so many . after 14 year of neglect under the previous Government , it be refreshing to see that under this Labour Government , community such as New Addington in my constituency come first . I welcome the £ 20 million long - term investment that this Government be make in New Addington , its people and its future . do the Minister agree that it be vital that local people get to decide how this money be spend , and can she outline what new power will be give to local people in New Addington , so that this money be spend on their priority ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that at the heart of this must be the community . that be why we have make the neighbourhood board absolutely critical , and there be a huge job for member of Parliament from across the House in help to organise , convene and bring together community leader who can populate that board . we be very clear that regeneration plan will be drive by that board . critically , it will not just be the board in the drive seat ; big swathe of the community will be engage , and they will have a voice and a say in what this look like . alongside that , we be make sure that there be a community right to buy , which I have speak about , so that the community be in the drive seat , take on community asset of value . there be a huge opportunity , but member of Parliament and local government must play an enable role , so that we can put community in the drive seat for the first time . the future high street fund work well , because to get any funding , area have to demonstrate that they have a plan , and that the money would be use effectively , in accordance with local priority . pride in place be structure in a very different way . I accept that the Minister ' s intent be to ensure that redundant premise be repurpose and reuse ; that be really good , and as chairman of the Trowbridge Place Partnership , I certainly welcome that . however , how will she ensure that the whole thing be not just bung up with endless legal challenge , as her unelected board make diktat that will be subject to endless review ? there be the pride in place impact fund — £ 1 . 5 million that will go to local authority across the country to bring about high - street regeneration . alongside that , there be this programme . we be unapologetic about the fact that we want community in the drive seat . we know that this be a different approach for Government , but it be the right approach , because we can not and will not address the huge distrust , anger and frustration in our deprive community unless we give people power and agency to shape and drive the change that they want . we will work as a Department to enable that . I have talk about the community delivery unit ; they will work alongside area to make sure that we provide capacity - build support and enable support , so that the investment not only work for the community in the short term , but fundamentally build community wealth . rise — order . member can see how many colleague wish to contribute . unless they keep their contribution short , they will deny their fellow member the opportunity to speak . show we how it be do , Shaun Davies . I refer member to my declaration in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I warmly welcome the £ 20 million investment in Telford , which have be match fund by Labour - lead Telford and Wrekin council . that mean that £ 3 million will go to Woodside , Brookside and Sutton Hill each and every year for the next decade . will the Minister confirm when that money will come to the community frontline ? will she also challenge Government agency and Departments right across Whitehall to get behind the ethos of this scheme , and make sure that community be in charge , and that there be pride ? we will start invest . phase 1 place be already receive capacity funding , and £ 2 million will flow from next year . phase 2 place — the place we recently announce — will receive capacity funding from next year , with full funding flow from the year after . this be potentially a way to revolutionise the way that government work . we be very keen to work with Departments across Whitehall . we be say , " here be a way of invest in community that genuinely put community in the drive seat . " hopefully it have the impact that we want . I be really disappointed that Cornwall , despite have some of the most deprived town in the country , will not receive a penny of pride in place funding . at a time when our share prosperity funding be to stop , I be concerned to hear the Minister mention that the north and the midland will receive pride in place funding . I hope she clear that up . will she meet I and my constituent Fin Irwin , who have really exciting plan for Bodmin ' s Fore Street in my constituency ? they could be the basis for a great pilot involve social housing , opportunity for small business and community space , and it would prove that the Government want regional growth everywhere . we be not able to fund all area — I wish we be — so we have focus on particular area of deprivation that also score high on the community need index . however , we be also put in place a whole set of power and provision so that every community can take control of its high street and other area , and can use the community right to buy . I be very happy to meet the hon . member and other Cornwall Members to talk about how we can ensure that that part of the country thrive . I will try again . Dr Lauren Sullivan will show we how it be do . I welcome the Minister to her place . I thank she for Gravesham ' s share of the pride in place impact fund ; £ 1 . 5 million over two year be a really great investment , so that we can restart build community and place — and there be new possibility that once could only have be imagine . these priority have be neglect over many year . do she agree with I that the impact fund will make a real difference to Gravesham ? I do . it be a huge opportunity , and if we get this right , we will see tangible benefit in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I welcome the Minister to her new position . I enjoy shadow she on the energy brief . I really welcome the inclusion of Lakenheath in this announcement , and I look forward to work with she , and with resident and councillor , on make sure that the fund be well spend . I want to ask the Minister how we build pride in place by improve local economy . her Department be contemplate its plan for the development of Cambridge . my constituency be very affect by that development , and there be rise demand for new housing . I would appreciate it if I could meet she , or one of her colleague , to discuss how we integrate new housing with transport connection . in particular , I be think of connection from Cambridge to haverhill in West Suffolk . I thank the hon . member , and I be very happy to meet he . I warmly welcome the Government ' s investment of £ 20 million in the Raffles and Morton neighbourhood of my Carlisle constituency . as I be very fond of remind Members , Carlisle be the most northerly city in England — 120 mile north of Manchester , and a very long way from this place . do the Minister agree with I that what be truly transformative about this programme be not simply the money , but the fact that decision about how it will be spend be put in the hand of local people , not politician and civil servant in what we in Carlisle call " that London " ? my hon . friend be completely right . put local people and community in charge be game change , if we get it right . I think it will lead to well decision , and to an impact on place that matter to people . however , there be a big collective onus on all of we to get that right . the instinct to hoard power at the centre and to control be strong , and we all have to work to make sure that we put our community in the drive seat . I congratulate all member who have secure funding in this pride in place settlement , but once again Perth and Kinross have be totally and utterly ignore . we do not receive one penny in levelling - up funding from the Tories , and we have receive nothing from this Labour Government . bad than that , they actually take away from Perth and Kinross the £ 5 million that we have finally secure from the Conservatives . the people of Perth and Kinross be sick and tired of be ignore in this merry - go - round of pork barrel politic . when be we go to get our share , and just what have the UK Government get against the people of Perth and Kinross ? we have allocate local growth funding to Scotland , which we will announce in due course . in addition , we be work with the Scotland Office on the allocation of the scottish component of pride in place . this Labour Government be invest in Scotland and in our community , but the Scottish Government be in charge , and if our community be struggle in Scotland , responsibility for that sit with the SNP . rise — I call Paul Waugh , who will not want to let I down after his early infraction . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . in Rochdale , we warmly welcome this £ 20 million investment in Smallbridge and Hurstead , which be very much overdue . I be the Labour and Co - operative MP for Rochdale , which be the home of the Co - op , and we know more than anyone elsewhere the power of local people come together , set their own priority and take back control . do the Minister agree with I that this investment be overdue because of the year of neglect by the Conservative party and Whitehall , and be a vote of confidence in local people ? my hon . friend be completely right . like he , I be a Co - operative MP , and I think the value of our Co - operative movement run through this programme . it put local people in charge , but it also say that it be by give local people a stake , give they ownership and allow they to generate community wealth that we make our place prosperous . the Minister describe those receive the money as " true patriot " , but in my constituency we have not receive a single penny of this funding . be my constituent not true patriot ? there be plenty of place in the north of Farnham and potentially in Bordon that could really do with use this money . I invite the Minister to come to my constituency so that I can show she the place that need the money , and the amazing job that other be do already . we would have love to have have funding for every part of the country . sadly , because of the inheritance — the hon . Member have encourage I to raise this again — of 14 year in which the public finance be decimate and the Conservatives crash the economy , we be have to navigate through that situation . however , alongside the investment in the place that have be choose because of deprivation , we be give all place the tool and the lever to reclaim their high street and invest locally . it be a damn legacy of the Tories that be bear in Avondale Grange in Kettering rather than three minute down the road mean that people ' s opportunity be less , they face more health inequality and , under the last government , they be tell to accept decline . this £ 20 million funding show that this Government believe that no matter where someone be bear , they deserve to have pride in their community . while Reform continue to seek division , can my hon . friend outline how people have pride in their home and bring community together be a real example of true patriotism ? my hon . friend be completely right , and she put it incredibly eloquently . we can change the country by bring our community together and give they the tool and agency to change their place so they have pride . Labour Members be on the side of unity , and of bring community together to drive renewal . I note that there be no reform mps here , but they be on the side of dividing , and of simple slogan and simple answer that — to be candid — will not change the life of people in our community . the Minister say in her statement : " our job be to give our constituent the investment and power that they need " . of course , we all agree with that , and today ' s announcement be welcome . however , as a fellow London MP , she will be aware that the so - call fairer funding review will actually decimate the funding of many London local authority . my own borough of Richmond be set to lose a staggering amount — over 90 % of its core Government funding — and our most vulnerable and disadvantaged resident will suffer . [ interruption . ] if you will indulge I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I be be heckle by Labour Members — order . there isn ' t time — get to the point ! will the Minister at the very least commit to an impact assessment of the fair funding review change for local authority such as Richmond , and will she grant transitional funding ? we have be consult . we have close the consultation , and we be look through the response at the moment . we have have representation from authority across the country , include London . this Labour Government be very clear that we will continue to invest in our local area and our community . there be a need to rebalance , but we will do that in a fair way that do not negatively impact deprive community . last week , I go to the toddler group at Open Heaven church in Friar Park . the mum there tell I there be nothing for young people to do in Friar Park — no playground , no youth club . do the Minister agree with I that the £ 20 million be go to make the most massive difference to Friar Park , especially give that it be local people , like those mum , who will decide how it be spend ? my hon . friend be completely right . the opportunity to invest through this in local community service and youth service be absolutely huge , and put local mum in the drive seat be always a good thing . I welcome the fact that south Bridgwater have be include in this programme . these fund come on top of the £ 23 million allocate to Bridgwater under the last government ' s town deal . part of Highbridge in my constituency be equally deserving of funding , so can the Minister advise whether there will be any further round of allocate funding in this Parliament ? I think the hon . Gentleman be ask I to do the Chancellor ' s job , which I shall not be able to do . we think that this be an exciting way of invest in our community , and that there be a huge opportunity for we to leverage in additional investment . we be very keen to talk to social impact investor and philanthropist about how we can invest . there be also a lot of interest among the business community — local business and business improvement district — in bring this together . if we get this right and the funding in place leverage in additional funding , we will have show that this be a way of operate that we can then roll out across the country . the Featherstone people have great pride in their place , but they be also shrewd . they know that the Tories do austerity , trickle - down economic and cut across the health service , so they will very much welcome this announcement . may I push the Minister a little bit far on the question of a new economic model ? top - down economic have fail . Treasury mandarin do not understand what be happen in a place like Featherstone , whereas Featherstone people do . do she see this measure as a way of community wealth building from the bottom up , rather than economic from the top down ? absolutely . the Prime Minister speak about grassroots growth , which be growth root in our community and our place , where we build community wealth , which fundamentally change and rewire the economic model and the economic settlement . we be very deliberate about the fact that we want to put community at the heart of both drive change , and drive wealth and economic opportunity . that be how we drive up living standard . the Government be present the pride in place programme as a win for community across the UK , but the focus of this particular scheme be on neighbourhood of around 10 , 000 people . on Ynys M ô n , only one town even meet that population threshold . that be not unique to my constituency ; it be the case across Wales . will the Minister explain why rural community be exclude by design from this specific programme ? we be invest in rural community , whether in Somerset or Wiltshire . we have use very clear metric — we have use deprivation and the community need index — to focus the programme on the area that need it the most . we recognise that this be part of a big strategy , whether that be give community the power to reclaim their high street , the investment we be try to do through local government , or , critically , the job we be do with our regional mayor to fundamentally drive economic prosperity . there be a big plan to invest in all part of the country . for year in Derby , we have be push for this kind of long - term investment — investment that the fantastic community of Chaddesden richly deserve . it will take time and hard work to recover from the 14 year of neglect that community like Chaddesden experience . I would like every Chadd resident with idea of how they can get the money spend and get involve to contact I . do the Minister agree that it be key that local people have a say in how that money be spend ? my hon . friend be completely right . this be a huge opportunity to bring the community together and for they to be in the drive seat . therefore , reach out to all part of the community be one of the most powerful thing that Members of Parliament can do . I have an organise background and this be an organise moment , because it be the ability to bring people — those who be not normally around the table and who can not normally shape their place — around the table and to give they voice , power and agency . Minister , the statement make reference to engage with the Northern Ireland Executive . can you tell I what discussion you have have with my colleague in the Northern Ireland Executive ? order . it be not " can you tell I ? " ; it be " can the Minister tell I ? " . yes ? quick ! thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . can the Minister please tell I what discussion you have have with my colleague in the Northern Ireland Executive ? you will be aware of the fact that the share prosperity fund , which other member have reference , be not be replace . the local growth situation be already jeopardise job in Northern Ireland . can you make any comment on that , Minister ? thank you . correction twice — it be not " can you make a comment ? " let we please make sure we get our word right next time around . we be work very closely with the Northern Ireland Office , which be in constant contact with the Northern Ireland Executive in term of pride in place and community investment , and local growth investment more widely . we will be work closely with they and ensure that we be engage with , and try to design this with , the Northern Ireland Executive . in my area of Blackpool , the damn legacy of the Tories mean that we now live in the most deprived borough in the country . high street such as those in South Shore — Bond Street , Waterloo Road and Lytham Road — have be leave to ruin . will the Minister outline how the £ 1 . 5 million that can be use to restore high street can be use quickly and efficiently in South Shore ? will she join I in Blackpool to meet resident and business in South Shore , and get some fish and chip along the way ? I would love to join my hon . friend and I would love some fish and chip . on the £ 1 . 5 million , we be get out the first tranche this autumn , so place will already be get the investment . we be already sign memorandum of understanding to ensure we can move quickly . there be a critical role for member of Parliament , work with the community , to ensure that the investment go into the thing that the community want . More money and power go into community be of course a good thing , and it would be only right and proper for I to welcome some money go into my neighbouring area , represent by the hon . member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) . I want to return to a point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) about the broad question of funding for local government . Stockport council cover my patch . some £ 3 in every £ 4 it spend go on adult and child social care . that be not sustainable . three year to do a social care review be a long time . will the Minister explain what conversation she be have with colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to shorten that timeframe so we can crack on ? we be work closely with the Department of Health and Social Care . we understand the pressure that the social care system and its failure — which , again , we have to lay at the door of the conversative party — be have on local government finance . we be do what we can to give local government the flexibility to respond and increase the funding envelope , but there be a fundamental question about social care reform that be difficult and complex and that have be kick into the long grass . we be determined to take this forward , but we have to do it carefully and we have to do it well so that it deliver the impact that everyone across the House want to see . the £ 20 million pride in place funding go into the west end of Morecambe show that this Labour Government be really trust local people to spend money locally , without lot of bureaucratic hurdle — and I really welcome that . whether it be smartene up Yorkshire Street or Regent Road , or get under the bonnet and help people with their health problem , in Morecambe we be ready to go . will the Minister tell I if we can work together to get this go as quickly as possible and speed up the pride in place timescale ? my hon . friend be completely right . we want pace , we want momentum and we want to get on with invest in our community . our community delivery unit will be work really closely with community . if place want to run , it be our job to work alongside they so that they can run . I welcome this new funding package . the city of Birmingham will receive £ 160 million over the next 10 year . my constituency , which have be in the medium recently , undoubtedly have some of the high level of unemployment , child poverty , deprivation and health inequality , but it have not receive any of the funding . may I invite the Minister to meet I , so I can seek to persuade she that we need more funding , give that the eight neighbourhood in Birmingham be patch that , unfortunately , have Labour mp ? I would be happy to meet the hon . member . we know there be deprivation across the country , and everything the Government be try to do , from our strategy to drive growth to the work my colleague in other Departments be do on child poverty — we be take action across the piece — be to tackle that . we have focus on certain community , but we know that there be work to be do in all our community . Peterlee be the place to be . interestingly , Peterlee be the only town in the country name after a trade union leader . there will be great celebration of the Labour Government ' s £ 20 million investment from pride in place in Peterlee . I welcome this money , which be go to make a real difference to people in my constituency who be ignore by the previous Conservative Government . do the Minister agree that it be important to note that this programme be not just new money , but give new power to local people to decide how it be spend ? my hon . friend be completely right . what be game change , in my view , be put local people and community in the drive seat and give they power to decide where they want to put the money . that will deliver impact , but critically it will also bring our community together ; it will bridge and create a sense of pride and a sense of community . I welcome the Labour Government ' s £ 20 million investment in Kingstanding in Birmingham . for 14 year , my constituency be repeatedly overlook ; it be even deny levelling - up funding on two occasion . can the Minister assure I that after 14 year of conservative neglect , local resident will come first , go forwards ? my hon . friend be completely right . the approach this Labour Government be take be to put local resident and community first . we will all have example of community that have be hollow out ; we will all know that sense of despair and distrust . we absolutely need to turn that around , and we be commit to do so . I warmly welcome the £ 20 million come to Paston , Gunthorpe and the Welland area of Peterborough . this be pride in place be deliver by my hon . friend the Minister — the pride of Peckham — and I thank she . I be deeply proud as a Co - operative MP that the co - operative development unit be part of this strategy . early this week , along with Peppa Pig and the Education Secretary , I visit Honeyhill ' s childcare centre , which be a family hub in the centre of the area that will receive this funding . can the Minister confirm that this money will be not just about brick and mortar , but about change life ? facility such as family hub will be at the centre of how we can give child the good start in life . we can use this investment to change thing for the long term in Peterborough . my hon . friend be completely right . if we get this right , it will be about not only the investment in the next 10 year , but how we create momentum around that and catalyse great community wealth and , critically , how we invest in our community for the long term . as a proud Co - operative MP , I think there be a huge opportunity for we to ensure that community have a genuine stake and that community be benefit in the long term from the wealth that be be generate . the Conservatives hollow out our community and Reform be exploit it , and yet this Government be help community like mine to thrive . we have already have the announcement of our £ 20 million in the town fund . we have set up our Believe in Bedworth board , because my resident believe in their town , and the chair of that board have say that he feel energised to have a hand in shape the future of his home town . we have already have thousand of response to our survey and be organise a family fun day on 25 October . we would be delighted if the Minister could join we for that . can she outline how the £ 1 . 5 million of impact funding can help to turbocharge the groundbreaking work already be do by Nuneaton and Bedworth borough council to bring empty property back into use ? I thank my hon . friend for set out the huge amount of work and progress in her community . that be a great example of exactly how this can work really well . there be a huge opportunity with the impact fund to build on that ; where neighbourhood board and governance structure be already establish and where people like my hon . friend have do huge amount of engagement with the community , we should absolutely be think about leverage in more investment . in June , I lead a Westminster Hall debate call for well investment in disadvantaged neighbourhood , so I be delighted that my call be hear . I welcome the £ 20 million for Low Hill and an additional £ 1 . 5 million of pride in place impact funding . do the Minister agree that the people who live in my community , who know their strength , their struggle and their solution , must be at the heart of decide what this money be spend on — not investment do to they , but investment by they and with they ? I thank my hon . friend for the huge amount of work she have do to champion this agenda and to come up with idea to tackle deprivation . she be completely right : it be about community in charge , drive change . it be not about change do to they , but about change with they in the drive seat . I remind member to keep question short so that we can get try to get everybody in . I would not want member to miss out on the opportunity to speak about their constituency because other Members have take so long . I warmly welcome the £ 20 million for Old Farnley , but now be the time for action . hundred of people have already complete my survey . I have more than 100 volunteer for the neighbourhood board alone — it will not be that big — and we have plenty of idea that we want to spend the money on . give that we be ready and impatient to deliver , will the Minister empower my resident to crack on and spend this money and deliver the change that we know they deserve ? I congratulate my hon . friend on his work and the huge progress he have make , both in reach out across his community and in convene and galvanise people to join his neighbourhood board . we want community to run this . we want pace and we want impact , and we be commit to work alongside he and his community to drive the change that they want to see . the people of Warndon in Worcester feel immense pride in their identity , and they know that for far too long they have be unheard , let down and leave behind . this commitment of £ 20 million to Warndon could be transformative , especially as it be long - term funding over 10 year . however , more than money be spend , the people of Warndon need to be hear , respect and empower . can the Minister assure the people of Warndon that she share my determination that the power , the decision and the money be in their hand ? my hon . friend put it eloquently and correctly . the power will be in their hand , and it be our job to ensure that be the way it play out . on behalf of the people of Portsmouth , I be delighted that we have receive £ 41 . 5 million under Labour ' s pride in place impact programme . some £ 20 million of that be for Paulsgrove , which be close to my heart . it be a proud and resilient place , but it be neglect and ignore under 14 year of the previous Government . as pub , shop and facility have close , volunteer and community champion have be run they out of their own pocket to keep that part of the city go . will the Minister confirm that the community of Paulsgrove will now be able to have a say and put into action what the community want and need , with real investment from the Government , rather than from their own pocket ? my hon . friend highlight the patriot I talk about — the people in our community who have be hold thing together despite all the damage do by the Conservatives . we be clear that those people be the one who we must champion and put in the drive seat . I welcome the pride in place fund announcement and , in particular , the £ 20 million that have be allocate to Barrow Central ward in Barrow - in - furness . it be one of the most deprived in the whole country , and it be refreshing to see that under this Labour Government , we be deliver to those who be leave behind by our predecessor . do the Minister agree that the people who live there not only know the opportunity and the barrier , but understand where we need to spend the money to put thing right in these leave - behind community ? my hon . friend be 100 % right . understand what be need be game - change , and I hope that this programme will deliver the ability to ensure we can act on that understanding . the Labour Government ' s £ 20 million investment for Heartsease and Pilling Park in my constituency will be transformative . for too long our community have have stuff do to they , not with they , and this model will help change that . will the Minister join I in encourage all people who live in these area to get involve ? do she agree that it be important that people of all age and from all background , include people who have perhaps never think before about do something like this , get involve ? my hon . friend be completely right . this be a huge opportunity for our community to get involve . as I have say , I think there be a powerful role that Members of Parliament can play in put out the clarion call . I encourage anyone , particularly those who have feel politic and decision about their life to be remote , to become involved . this be their chance to get around the table , to shape their place and to make sure that they drive the change that they want to see . after 14 year of Tory neglect , the town of Fleetwood have be buzz with idea about how to make the most of this fantastic pride in place fund . my community be ready to hit the ground run . we be hungry to deliver the investment we so badly need . can the Minister assure I that the people of Fleetwood will get the resource we need to begin the work at the early possible opportunity ? we can not afford to wait any long . I completely agree that we need pace and urgency . community have be let down and hold back for far too long , and this be our chance to act with purpose and speed . we want to stand behind community so that they can crack on and make the change that they want to see . the pride in place funding will be transformative for my constituency . I thank the Minister for work with I and for give advice to urban area such as Middleton — urban area that a former conservative Prime Minister brag about divert fund away from . I be delighted to convene a meeting at Burnside community centre recently where call for improvement to Middleton be decisive . what step be be take to ensure that place with the most acute need , such as Middleton , be give priority within local authority area ? my hon . friend be right to remind we that resource be deliberately take away from some of our most deprived community under the last government , which be a shameful record . we be very clear that this be an opportunity to invest in our community . we want local authority to ensure that they be work alongside our community and enable they , and that the money and resource be go to the place that the community believe need the investment . I warmly welcome the £ 21 . 5 million pride in place investment for Hartlepool , which will go directly into our neighbourhood . it come off the back of the big deal in Hartlepool ' s history of £ 6 billion for new nuclear and 2 , 500 job , and a brilliant Labour council deliver £ 150 million of capital investment in our town . do the Minister agree that after year of be leave behind , this show that the people of Hartlepool have a Government and an MP who be on their side ? I 100 % agree . that example show the difference that a Labour Government work with a Labour council can make . we inherit a decade and a half of decline and neglect , and it be — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) be sigh from the Conservative Front Bench . he should be far more ashamed about his Government ' s record . it be our job to turn around their failure and neglect . since the announcement of £ 20 million for the east of Sheppey , my constituent have be fizz with excitement . I be get load of response to my online survey , and the coffee morning I hold on Saturday — the first of many I will hold — be very well attend . People have really great idea , but they have two main thing to feed back . first , they want local people to be at the heart of this initiative . the citizen of Eastchurch , Warden , Leysdown and Shellness all want to be part of it , but they want to make sure it be centre on they , not on outside voice . secondly , they want the funding to be a catalyst for further change and investment in the area . I would like to hear the Minister ' s thought on that , and I would also quickly remind she that I have three more neighbourhood in the bottom 10 % of the country — just to add that to the list . I congratulate my hon . friend on his amazing work to reach out to his community and get that engagement and feedback from people . that be what will drive the change . I thank he for the feedback from his resident and community ; will take it on board . we completely agree that resident need to be in the drive seat and that this initiative need to be a catalyst . if we get this right , we can take the model to Whitehall , local business and philanthropy and say , " this be how we drive change in our community . continue to co - invest . " I be thrilled that my hometown of Thetford in rural South West Norfolk be to receive a share of this funding . just last week I be at the board meeting where we make our first funding commitment to increase capacity and reopen a derelict medieval church in Thetford town centre as a community space . do the Minister agree that project such as those will bring footfall back into our town , support local business and improve our local economy ? I thank my hon . friend for share that example . I completely agree ; that be an incredibly exciting project . those sort of scheme can have a huge galvanise impact on our local area . I look forward to see the progress that he and his community be make , and we will make sure that we do our part to support they . to their great credit , the Bournville , Coronation and Oldmixon community have survive in spite of previous Westminster disinterest . do the Minister agree that this huge £ 20 million investment in Weston - super - Mare be an endorsement of our faith in every community champion who have keep our most vulnerable community together while Westminster look the other way ? my hon . friend be completely right to highlight the hero who help to hold our community together through 14 year in which they be neglect and face huge pressure . pride in Place be a vote of confidence in those local hero . our job be to give they what they need in order to drive the change they have be rightly call for . I be delighted that this Labour Government be invest £ 20 million into Weston and a furth £ 1 . 5 million into the wide Southampton Itchen constituency . idea be already flood in from a group of people who be relieve not to be overlook yet again , as they be under the last Government . do the Minister agree that such long - term , stable and — most important — community - lead investment be absolutely the right way to transform community like Weston for the well ? my hon . friend be completely right . long - term , stable investment that be anchor in our community and put they in the drive seat be a game changer . I be incredibly excited about the programme , but it be example like his that show we just how transformative it could be . I be delighted to confirm that the entire community of Park End and Beckfield will be able to benefit from the £ 20 million of investment through the Government ' s Pride in Place scheme . will the Minister confirm that the funding should be spend not by the council or by any politician but by the community themselves on the priority they want to see ? absolutely , 100 % . community be in the drive seat , with the neighbourhood board of a cross - section of member of the community — people who have never sit around the table — be around the table and drive the change that they want to see . I really welcome the £ 21 . 5 million of extra funding for Hastings , and I be delighted that hundred of resident have be in touch with their idea about how to spend it . as the Minister say , it be well spend on people ' s priority and not waste as in previous scheme under the conservative party , like the £ 150 , 000 waste on Owens in Hastings . public money be also spend on reopen the Bridge community centre in Ore , which have sadly be close for seven year , so many in Hastings be shock to hear that Parchment Trust , which be give the centre for free , plan to sell it on the open market for £ 650 , 000 . do the Minister agree that Parchment Trust should look at how it can return the centre to public hand and take up the Charity Commission ' s offer to meet to discuss that ? absolutely . my hon . friend give we the example of how not to do this , as we see that under the conservative party . if we get this right and we put community at the very heart of it , that be how we will drive change . I commend she on the amazing leadership she be show in her community , work with other to bring they around the table to ensure that investment that have a long - term impact will drive change in her community . two neighbourhood in Fife be benefit from £ 40 million of Pride in Place funding , show the government once again deliver for the people of the kingdom of Fife . give the centralisation of power in Scotland under the SNP , how do the Minister believe those fund can support local decision making in scottish community , particularly in area of deprivation ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . we believe that community should be in charge and in the drive seat — that be how we drive transformative long - term change . we desperately hope that the Scottish Government will look at what we be do . the Scottish Government have be hugely centralise , but not always make decision in the good interest of the community we want they to . we think there be something that they can learn , and we will work with they to share the lesson and , critically , to advocate and encourage they to take a similar approach . I thank the Minister for this fantastic funding announcement . I know that my constituent in Maryport and Broughton Moor will make good use of this £ 20 million investment . think back to the last Government ' s approach to level up , I recall that the Public Accounts Committee criticise the lack of transparency in how levelling - up money be allocate . as pork barrel politic and levelling up be two very different thing , will the Minister reassure we that lesson have be learn and this Government will be transparent ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . the pork barrel politic we see under the last Government be shocking . at a time when our community be under huge pressure and we see such deprivation , it be pretty egregious and unforgivable . this Labour Government would not do that . we be clear and transparent about the metric that we have use ; it be all publish and it be there . critically , we be try to reach the community that need the great help . for the final question , I call Richard Burgon . not only as the Member of Parliament , but as an east Leeds resident , I be delighted that £ 20 million have be secure for Seacroft North and Monkswood , which really need it . do the Minister agree that the idea and answer on how this vital money should be spend lie with the local people in Seacroft North and Monkswood , who be sadly leave behind and let down by the previous Tory Government ? my hon . friend be completely right . the answer lie with our local community . if we do the job of create the space for they , empower they and build their capacity , they have the ability to fundamentally transform life in our community . I be determined to support that , we be proud that , as a Labour Government , we be put it at the heart of our approach , and we be determined to deliver it . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . member will be aware that the Upper Waiting Hall be this week host the Speak their name exhibition of suicide memorial quilt from across the UK . this would not have be possible without the help of House staff who have go way over and above to ensure that the exhibition and last Friday ' s launch with the Baton of Hope could take place . may I ask you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to thank all the staff involve for their help and to pass on my appreciation ? I thank the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . she have now helpfully place on the record her thank to those responsible for the exhibition and I will ensure that Mr Speaker be make aware of that gratitude , so that it can be pass on to staff . Police and Crime Commissioners ( Accountability and Review ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the accountability of police and crime commissioner ; to make provision about the measurement of police and crime commissioner ' performance ; to make provision about the setting of priority for police and crime commissioner ; to require the Secretary of State to commission a review of the operation and function of police and crime commissioner , include consideration of option for their abolition and replacement ; and for connected purpose . my constituent be worried about crime and disorder across their community . it be the same for a great many colleague , if not the vast majority . for year now , they have see a rise in crime , be it anti - social behaviour in their neighbourhood , crime on their high street , or , in more extreme case , violence . those concern really matter ; people deserve to be listen to and take seriously by the police . I be pleased that this Government be take action , with the Crime and Policing Bill make massive stride to protect our community . however , it will take time to reverse the impact of the original cut to police number and the erosion of experience over the previous 14 year . the problem be that the public feel helpless : they feel that no one be listen to they and they do not know who to turn to , who to talk to and who be responsible for the police in their area . that bring I to the purpose of my Bill : that too often , police and crime commissioner have not deliver for their community . I will argue that PCCs need to be replace and reform with police and crime panel while the wide devolution process take place . however , first , to understand the problem , we must look back 15 year to the change introduce by the then incoming Government and their promise to bring " democratic control over police " through the creation of pcc . that proposal result in PCCs replace police authority and become the sole authority . as Prime Minister , David Cameron explain that police and crime commissioner would " lead the fight against crime " and be someone " to hold to account if they don ' t deliver . " today , how many of our constituent can name their pcc ? indeed , how many know what a pcc be ? how many of our constituent think that their pcc be lead the fight against crime ? many would say that the promise of that original Bill have not be deliver and that we need to amend these shortcoming for the sake of our constituent . how do we get here ? back in 2012 , the first PCC election be hold . turnout in the first election be just 15 % , make it the low - ever turnout for a peacetime national election . as Prime Minister , David Cameron promise that turnout would increase over time , and it do , but it be hardly impressive and certainly not representative . in fact , turnout last year , 2024 , reach 23 % across England and Wales but it coincide with certain mayoral election on the same day . the apathy for PCCs remain . the problem run far deeply . indeed , in 2024 , the Home Affairs Committee say that the PCC approach face " a number of challenge " , the foremost be the lack of public awareness of pcc and their function , the relationship between pcc and chief constable and the lack of accountability . the Committee be concern that the introduction of PCCs have see the creation of yet another layer of bureaucracy and additional cost , with questionable impact on the outcome for police force . it also note that there be considerable variability in the relative performance between pcc across the country , and that the nature of the relationship they have with their chief constable can damage the model entirely . the Committee conclude that their effectiveness be highly variable and questionable . there be also the matter of legitimacy . as elect representative , pcc be hold to account at the ballot box , but with turnout percentage often in the mid - teen , the public be clearly not take they seriously . also , while police and crime panel exist to scrutinise pcc , they be constrain by funding and formal power . the panel be limit in their funding to £ 53 , 300 a year , and this do not reflect the workload require to proactively hold the commissioner to account . in term of formal power , the police and crime panel lack the proper mechanism to hold the pcc to account . the panel can only veto a decision once , be it a budget or a chief constable appointment . furthermore , pcp can investigate police and crime commissioner , but in real term it be no more than a polite inquiry . across the country , we see example of PCCs fail constituent . this become an issue for I in Warwickshire , and not just through casework and wide constituent ' concern , of which there be many . it be truly crystallise by the news story of a cover - up between Warwickshire hunt , Warwickshire police and the police and crime commissioner . I will not go into the detail , but the allegation be that the pcc , Philip Seccombe , and the then chief constable , Debbie Tedds , engineer a cover - up that prevent a case of illegal foxhunting by Warwickshire hunt from go to court . the PCC be supportive of Warwickshire hunt , and so be the chief constable , whom he alone appoint in 2021 . that be rubber - stamp by the PCP . between October 2023 and November 2024 , I write to the PCC and the chief constable six time on this issue . they blank I . they withhold information from I , an elect MP , and also from the police and crime panel . the PCC claim that he do not have the information and that he have not see it . I believe he obstruct I from get that information . as a result , neither I nor the resident of Warwickshire have any trust or confidence in Commissioner Philip Seccombe or the senior leadership team at Warwickshire police . there be clearly collusion . that be what the public believe , and that be what I believe , too . the chief constable , whose daughter work for Warwickshire hunt , retire early in September 2024 , just three year after her appointment . public concern across the country be not simply confine to ineffectiveness or collusion , as in the case of Warwickshire ; they also centre on cost . in my home county of Warwickshire in 2023 - 24 , the run cost of the PCC and his office be a staggering £ 1 , 175 , 000 . that be just for one year . that be the equivalent of 38 trainee police constable in Warwickshire for one year . across England and Wales , the total budget for the 41 commissioner be just shy of £ 50 million . give that context , I be encourage by the Government ' s ambition to move the responsibility of pcc across to mayor through the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill , but these change will take at least two year to come into effect , so more immediate action be need . in the meantime , we could be save ten of million of pound a year and divert that money straight to frontline policing . it be increasingly clear that for , the most part , pcc have fail to meet the need of their community . they have not bring great accountability or improve police outcome . I would argue that the time have come for we to change the system and do away with police and crime commissioner . question put and agree to . order , that Matt Western , Chris Bloore , Adam Jogee , Debbie Abrahams , Sam Carling , Rachel Taylor and Matt Western present the Bill . Matt Western accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 29 May 2026 , and to be print ( Bill 312 ) . sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill Consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 1 - Review of the Potential Conversion of Industrial Sites for sustainable Aviation Fuel Production " ( 1 ) within twelve month of the day on which this Act be pass , the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament and publish a report into the merit of convert disuse oil refinery and other relevant exist industrial site into facility for the production of sustainable aviation fuel . ( 2 ) the report require under subsection ( 1 ) must include , but be not limit to — ( a ) an assessment of the technical and operational feasibility of such conversion ; ( b ) an evaluation of the economic viability of such conversion ; ( c ) the cost effectiveness of such conversion compare to new build production facility , take into account — ( i ) the ability to use exist infrastructure such as tank and pipeline ; ( ii ) the complexity of environmental remediation and site preparation ; ( iii ) the availability and suitability of a skilled workforce within proximity to such site ; ( d ) recommendation for government action to facilitate and incentivise such conversion , where they be deem beneficial for enhance the resilience and increase the domestic production of sustainable aviation fuel industry . ( 3 ) in prepare the report require under subsection ( 1 ) , the Secretary of State must consult relevant stakeholder , include , but not limit to — ( a ) sustainable aviation fuel producer ; ( b ) representative of the oil and gas industry and workforce ; ( c ) environmental organisation ; ( d ) local authority ; and ( e ) academic expert . ( 4 ) the report must be accompany by a statement from the Secretary of State on how the finding of the report will be address through Government action . " — ( Olly Glover . ) this new clause mandate the Secretary of State to publish a report within twelve month , review the merit of convert disuse oil refinery and other industrial site for sustainable aviation fuel production . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — Review of the supply of bioethanol for use in sustainable aviation fuel production — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the passing of this Act , publish and lie before Parliament a report review measure to encourage the supply of material for sustainable aviation fuel . ( 2 ) the report under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) an assessment of the impact of the closure of bioethanol plant on the ability to encourage overall increase in sustainable aviation fuel production ; ( b ) option for mitigate any adverse impact on the availability of supply of sustainable aviation fuel by the closure of bioethanol plant ; ( c ) recommendation for any necessary government action to promote a stable supply of bioethanol for sustainable aviation fuel . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to lay before Parliament a report outline measure to encourage the supply of material for saf , include consider the impact of bioethanol plant closure on encouragement to increase supply . new clause 3 — increase greenhouse gas saving potential of sustainable aviation fuel — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of the day on which this Act be pass , publish and lie before Parliament a report which set out a strategy for increase the greenhouse gas emission saving result from the promotion of sustainable aviation fuel production in the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) the report require under subsection ( 1 ) must include , but not be limit to — ( a ) proposal for incentivise the research and development of sustainable aviation fuel that maximise greenhouse gas emission saving ; ( b ) an assessment of , and recommendation for increase to , the minimum require greenhouse gas emission reduction in order for a sustainable aviation fuel to be issue a SAF certificate ; ( c ) an assessment of , and recommendation for increase to , minimum ratio for renewable content in blend sustainable aviation fuel , for the purpose of more quickly reduce greenhouse gas emission . ( 3 ) twelve month after the publication of the report require under subsection ( 1 ) and within every twelve month thereafter , the Secretary of State must publish a further report which — ( a ) set out progress against the strategy ; and ( b ) make any necessary adjustment to the strategy as a result of development in the sustainable aviation fuel industry . ( 4 ) in this section , " SAF certificate " have the meaning give in article 2 of the Renewable Transport Fuel Obligations ( sustainable Aviation Fuel ) Order 2024 . " new clause 4 — reporting of sustainable Aviation Fuel target — " ( 1 ) the renewable Transport Fuel Obligations ( sustainable Aviation Fuel ) Order 2024 be amend as set out in this section . ( 2 ) in paragraph ( 3 ) , after sub - paragraph ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5A ) the Secretary of State may vary the table in paragraph ( 7 ) in order to increase the obligation in any give year . " ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph 33 ( 2 ) ( c ) leave out " , and " ( 4 ) after sub - paragraph 33 ( 2 ) ( d ) , insert " and ( e ) consider whether the SAF obligation set out in the table in sub - paragraph 3 ( 7 ) of this order should be increase for any give year , and if so , set out step the Secretary of State will take to effect such an increase . " ( 5 ) after paragraph 33 ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) a copy of a report publish under this article must — ( a ) be lay before Parliament ; and ( b ) be send to the relevant select committee of each House of Parliament . ( 2b ) in sub - paragraph 33 ( 2A ) ( b ) , " the relevant select committee " be — ( a ) in the House of Commons , the Transport Committee , provide that — ( i ) if the name of that Committee be change , reference be instead take to mean the new name , and ( ii ) if the function of that Committee with respect to sustainable Aviation Fuel become function of a different committee of the House of Commons , reference be instead take to the committee by whom the function be then exercisable ; ( b ) in the House of Lords , any such Committee as the Chairman of Committees may appoint . " " new clause 5 — air travel provider ' use of sustainable aviation fuel : reporting requirement — " ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must , by regulation , establish a requirement for air travel provider to report annually on their use of sustainable aviation fuel . ( 2 ) regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) must specify — ( a ) that the annual report include figure for sustainable aviation fuel usage which can be easily understand , include express as — ( i ) an absolute volume , and ( ii ) proportion of all aviation fuel use ; and ( b ) that the annual report be accessible to member of the public include by be make available on their website . ( 3 ) any regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) must be make under the negative procedure . " new clause 6 — Economic Impact of the Act — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report on the economic impact of the Act . ( 2 ) this report must include , but shall not be limit to — ( a ) the impact on the UK ' s aviation fuel industry ; ( b ) the impact on the UK ' s sustainable aviation fuel supply include the impact on all small , medium and large producer and potential importer of sustainable aviation fuel ; ( c ) the impact on international and domestic tourism in the UK ; and ( d ) the impact on passenger air fare . ( 3 ) the report require by subsection ( 1 ) must be lay before Parliament within one year of this Act be pass . " new clause 7 — target for power - to - liquid aviation fuel usage — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within 12 month of the passing of this Act , conduct a review of the power - to - liquid aviation fuel target as set out in section ( 3 ) of the Renewable Transport Fuel Obligations ( sustainable Aviation Fuel ) Order 2024 . ( 2 ) the review carry out under subsection ( 1 ) must only consider — ( a ) the effectiveness of the exist power - to - liquid aviation fuel target and ; ( b ) whether the target should be increase . ( 3 ) in carry out the review under subsection ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must consult with — ( a ) producer of power - to - liquid aviation fuel ; ( b ) airline ; ( c ) expert in sustainable aviation fuel production ; and ( d ) any other person the Secretary of State deem appropriate . ( 4 ) a report set out the finding of the review must be publish and lay before both Houses of Parliament . " Government amendment 1 . amendment 10 , in clause 1 , page 2 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) the term under subsection ( 4 ) ( c ) must include a requirement for the producer to consider the longevity of supply and relative environmental impact when prioritise between organic and synthetic derive sustainable aviation fuel solution . " government amendment 2 to 5 . amendment 11 , in clause 6 , page 4 , line 19 , leave out from " pay " to end of line 22 and insert " to the designated counterparty in each month a standardise levy on their relevant disposal of aviation fuel product in the precede month that must be publicise on invoice express in pence per standard litre . " this amendment require the Secretary of State to set a standardise levy rate payable by all supplier of aviation fuel , that must be publicise by supplier of aviation fuel on invoice to their customer . government amendment 6 . amendment 8 , in clause 12 , page 7 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) a direction give under subsection ( 1 ) must include a requirement for the designated counterparty to report on — ( a ) the impact of any revenue certainty contract on the fluctuation of the average price to consumer of an airfare over the proceed 12 month period ; ( b ) a projection of the expect impact of any revenue certainty contract on the fluctuation of the average price to consumer of an airfare over the follow five year period . ( 4 ) a report under paragraph ( a ) must be make within one year of the date of Royal Assent to this Act and annually thereafter . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report make under paragraph 3 ( a ) before Parliament . " this amendment would require the designated counterparty to report on the impact that the revenue certainty mechanism have on passenger air fare . amendment 9 , page 7 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) a direction give under subsection ( 1 ) must include a requirement for the designated counterparty , where a venue certainty contract would result in a new production facility , to prioritise enter into any such contract with producer that will use UK own technology in that facility . " this amendment would require the designated counterparty to prioritise UK - base technology when enter contract . amendment 12 , page 7 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) within twelve month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must make a direction under subsection ( 1 ) which require the designate counter party to prioritise enter at least one revenue certainty contract with a producer of Power to liquid sustainable aviation fuel if do so will allow for at least one plant to reach Final Investment decision by 31 December 2026 . " Government amendment 7 . global demand for aviation continue to grow ; it be project to be two or three time big by 2050 . in 2024 , there be a record rate of increase in carbon emission , accord to the World Meteorological Organisation , and there be a new daily record for global aviation emission in July 2025 . nearly half of all the carbon emission to date from aviation have occur since 2000 . sustainable aviation fuel have be talk up for year as the solution , yet there have be a poor track record of unambitious target not be match by delivery . for example , in 2010 , Boeing announce the target that 1 % of aviation fuel globally should come from SAF by 2015 , and in 2019 , the International Air Transport Association set out hope of reach 2 % by 2025 , but today , globally , the figure be just 0 . 3 % . the UK ' s publish figure this year of 1 . 29 % be well , but it nevertheless show how far we have to go . the Conservative Government promise back in 2022 to have five commercial UK SAF plant operational by 2025 , but there be still only one . it be therefore right of the Government to have introduce legislation to attempt to make sure that the late set of SAF target move from fantasy to realistic , credible and deliverable plan , although these will ultimately need to transition we towards the development of truly zero - carbon flight technology . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) , and for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) , for their contribution to the Bill Committee , and I hope that member from across the House will consider the liberal Democrat amendment . new clause 1 , 2 and 3 all increase the chance of the intention behind the Bill be realise . new clause 1 require the Secretary of State to assess and report on the potential for disused oil refinery and similar industrial site to be use for the production of sustainable aviation fuel . new clause 2 require the Secretary of State to assess the measure be take to encourage the supply of material for production of sustainable aviation fuel , and have a focus on bioethanol plant . that be especially important in the context of the expect closure of the Vivergo bioethanol plant near Hull , follow the Government ' s decision not to provide it with financial support . new clause 3 require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the development of a strategy for analyse and maximise the potential of sustainable aviation fuel to contribute to reduction in greenhouse gas emission . I also speak in support of two new clause table by my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) , both of which would improve the Bill by provide great rigour and scrutiny of progress towards sustainable aviation fuel target . new clause 4 would give the Secretary of State the power to increase SAF production obligation where necessary , and to ensure that report on progress be lay before Parliament and relevant Select Committees . new clause 5 would introduce requirement for air travel provider to report on their use of sustainable aviation fuel , and to provide annual report to the public via their website . collectively , new clause 1 to 5 would strengthen the Bill and increase its credibility when it come to SAF production and report on progress . the Government ' s SAF mandate require just 22 % of aviation fuel to be sustainable by 2040 . that compare poorly with the European Union ' s target of 32 % by 2040 . it be hard to square an objective of net zero aviation by 2050 with just 22 % of fuel be sustainable a decade early , unless we put in place measure alongside SAF to cut emission and make climate - friendly flight a reality . we urge the Government to clarify their plan for achieve their target , particularly as hope for SAF progress be be use to state that Heathrow and Gatwick expansion be compatible with our greenhouse gas emission reduction target . as my hon . Friend say , sustainable aviation fuel be be use by the Government to justify major airport expansion . one such expansion would be at Gatwick , adjacent to my constituency . a target of 10 % saf by 2030 be optimistic in the extreme , as the Climate Change Committee say . if the Government ' s own adviser do not believe in this target , why should we ? my hon . friend make a good point about what the Climate Change Committee have say . that be why I hope the Government will consider these liberal Democrat amendment , which be intend to strengthen the Bill , so that its provision become reality this time , and contrast with the many miss target in the past on sustainable aviation fuel . make aviation genuinely sustainable will require the Government to go beyond secure investment in SAF , and to ensure that in the long term , the SAF measure complement , rather than detract from , investment in zero - carbon flight technology . I hope that the House will support our amendment , so that our country make a big and more rapid contribution to decarbonise aviation . this year , Petroineos — that is , Jim Ratcliffe ' s Ineos and PetroChina from the chinese state — close the Grangemouth oil refinery . closure be not about some passionate quest for net zero . Closure happen because private capital and a foreign Government own vital energy infrastructure , and because corporate profit be more important than community good to the billionaire Jim Ratcliffes of this world . there be 435 job lose at the refinery , and hundred more lose in the share service that be house on site ; 2 , 822 job be lose in the wide supply chain . that be mass de - industrialisation . but closure be not just about job loss . the exodus of talented , skilled worker be awful , but closure also mean that the site be no long a positive destination for many local young people leave school . we have see an end to a generational employer in my community . the economic consequence be also absolutely enormous for local Grangemouth business , which rely on the custom of refinery worker and their family . once again , I want to give credit to all the small local business that have keep town centre go in recent year . the pressure of run a small business when austerity and the cost of living crisis have hammer people ' s disposable income can be all - consume and incredibly stressful . I should know ; I try it for some year . the economic turmoil of stop refining be also a national issue , because the refinery be worth more than £ 400 million per annum to the scottish economy . politician often talk about black hole . well , that be a sizeable , industrial - shape black hole to fill . I do not doubt that the Government understand the magnitude of how important it be to re - industrialise community like mine in Grangemouth . the other day , I read my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , who have do so much work to bring this Bill to the House , describe in Hansard the situation that he grow up in on the east side of Manchester , which lose its chemical and mining industry . he say : " we be still get over that in my great city . " – – [ Official Report , sustainable Aviation Fuel Public Bill Committee , 17 July 2025 ; c . 108 . ] he undoubtedly understand the social consequence of industry finish up . no community can afford this continue spiral of industrial decline . to go back to my original point , we have for decade be an economy control by private capital , multinational corporation and foreign government whose policy have be to make thing elsewhere , and to sell here . have the last four decade not show that the country ' s complete reliance on private capital mean profit over people ? we must adopt a new industrial strategy that meet the need of work people and their community by secure at least some form of public ownership of the new industry that we will need — that be a mainstream political view . the Government must learn lesson to stop history repeat itself , and to prevent worker and community have every last ounce of work extract from they before they be discard on a corporate whim . for the Government to create and benefit economically from the necessary green industrial revolution , which we need for our economy and for the planet , some form of Government ownership of future industry be necessary . surely , that view should be at the heart of any Labour Government . if the Government want to put their faith in private capital to mould Britain ' s new industrial future , I urge they to think again . they need to be more active in the process of create Grangemouth ' s industrial future . they need to seize the initiative and invest in worker , community industry and scottish manufacturing . produce sustainable aviation fuel be an enormous objective — one that we have commit to — and site like Grangemouth be ideally place for it . the infrastructure need some degree of conversion and upgrade , of course , but it be there . the workforce and expertise be there . my local community need to be re - industrialised . the Labour Government have ambitious SAF target to meet , but , more importantly , they also have obligation to community in our forget industrial heartland . new clause 2 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) , would require the Government to publish a report within six month of secure the supply of bioethanol for sustainable aviation fuel production . the Government have repeatedly cite the increase use of SAF as the answer to question about how the UK will meet our net zero target while expand multiple airport in London . it be wishful think nine month ago , but that argument have now dissolve almost into impossibility . not only do the summer proposal submit by Heathrow Airport Holdings for a third runway include a request to add nearly 300 , 000 flight to our airspace each year , but the concern regard the production of SAF have become more prominent . that concern have grow follow China ' s implementation of its own SAF mandate , which will result in it use more of its production domestically . that will undoubtedly cause a challenge for the UK give that over 90 % of our current SAF be import from China . the challenge to the UK ' s ability to produce and import SAF be underscore by the Climate Change Committee ' s recent report , which estimate that only 17 % of the UK ' s aviation industry will be use SAF by 2040 . that be 5 % low than the Government ' s own mandate target , and 8 % below the EU ' s target . the estimate do not even take into account the additional flight that would come in and out of the UK as a result of the propose airport expansion . in fact , in 2024 only 10 % of bioethanol certify as renewable and consume in the UK be produce domestically . that be down from 17 % in 2023 and 15 % in 2022 — a concern trend and one that the Government must report back on . in addition , the UK - US trade deal present a threat to the UK ' s domestic bioethanol production , as the agreement remove tariff on US ethanol and replace it with a zero - tariff quota of 1 . 4 billion litre . the US bioethanol industry be heavily subsidise and its company will be able to undercut UK bioethanol industry . Vivergo Fuels ' plant in Hull , which have the large capacity of any UK bioethanol producer , have already close , with the manage director cite the US - UK trade deal as a significant factor that contribute to the site ' s closure . new clause 2 would require the Government to assess the impact of future plant closure on the production of SAF , and would ensure that option to mitigate the supply risk be investigate . this be a sensible proposal give the uncertain future face our production site . the amendment be necessary not only to protect our domestic plant , but to enable the roll - out of clean energy source . the Government ' s plan to increase the capacity of our airport will result in unavoidable environmental damage , and fall short of our mandated SAF target will only result in more pollution over our airspace . follow the Government ' s invitation to Heathrow to submit a proposal for a third runway in January , I ask the company for a percentage projection of the flight that will run on first , second and third generation SAF by 2035 . alarmingly , that question could not be answer . last month , I ask the same question again , but a response have not be forthcoming . it be unacceptable that Heathrow can propose a £ 49 billion project but not have the figure to substantiate its environmental mitigation . stem from the Chancellor ' s announcement in relation to the third runway , it be evident that support for that runway be drive by misguided financial incentive , with our environment be force to take a back seat . the Government must not discard their environmental commitment , and the Liberal Democrats will continue to hold they to account on they . the first step towards protect our air quality be for the Government to support new clause 2 . if they do not plan to get behind it , will the Minister explain why ? I will speak to new clause 1 . context be important , as this Bill be a first step on a long pathway to decarbonise aviation . at the moment , SAF component be blend with exist fossil fuel to create usable aircraft fuel , as I will go on to discuss , but I think it be helpful for we to be aware of the context : the various generation of sustainable aviation fuel that will form a road map as we move into the future . first - generation aviation fuel use oil , often of biological origin , as feedstock , and they produce a kerosene - type fuel that can be blend with our exist jet fuel . second - generation SAF be derive from solid waste that go through a digestion process , produce alcohol that can then be formulate into aviation fuel - type product . third - generation fuel — I remind hon . member that there be four generation — use wet mass as feedstock . again , that wet mass might be biological , but it be incapable of compete with food crop for production , and the process produce an output that be much like a bio - crude oil . as we move through the generation of sustainable aviation fuel production , it be important to remember that the output be different and be able to slip into different part of the exist fuel production supply chain . the fourth generation be derive from gas , maybe even atmospheric gas , such as carbon dioxide draw from the atmosphere . it be often refer to as a power - to - liquid process , and be an entirely non - biological process that require a lot of new technology . it be a future solution , but an advantageous and attractive one as it can provide we with a purely synthetic fuel . the point that I be illustrate be that the Bill be the first step in a long - term vision for aviation , in which sustainable aviation fuel be able to play a progressively large role . in future , we may even move to different fuel all together . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on hydrogen , I would like to give a shout - out to its role in the potential long - term future of power for aviation . these generation of fuel also interact with the technology in our aircraft . although current blend of sustainable aviation fuel can go into aircraft now , the aircraft will need to be upgrade as we move to high fraction of sustainable component in that fuel , because some of the aromatic component in fossil fuel be not available in synthetic fuel . they be currently require by some of the seal in the engine , and the aircraft will need to move into future generation to accept high proportion of aviation fuel . all of this be about have a strategic road map . the Bill be one step — one vastly enable piece of legislation — and it follow a model that be well prove to help establish new technology as part of a green and sustainable future . we have see the similar progress in offshore wind , for example , where it have be utterly transformational beyond anybody ' s expectation . this vehicle should be able to do similar thing for the beginning of our journey on decarbonise aviation , but it need a long - term plan . that be why there be a really important piece of work to be do in the secondary legislation enable by the Bill . it be very important that that legislation take account of all the factor be discuss through the various amendment that have be table . I oppose new clause 1 , because we must not oversimplify the journey before we . in fact , we must allow the Government the freedom to create a sophisticated , technically - lead strategy to deploy these different type of sustainable aviation fuel , take into account all factor , include our exist infrastructure , the production of biomass and the advancement of aviation technology . if we get this right , and if this game be play well , we have the opportunity to start successfully — and even lead — a journey that will be absolutely transformative , and to envisage a thriving , positive and sustainable future for aviation . for many year , I commute by aircraft from Scotland to Dublin — so many year , in fact , that I can still recall there be eight emergency exit on a Boeing 737 - 800 . there be two at the front , two at the rear and four over - wing exit . what a great pity that this Bill do not have an amendment that be an escape slide . while sustainable aviation fuel sound wonderful , it be burden with many inconvenient fact . the first be that there be no SAF production industry at the scale require . while new clause 1 be a bold attempt to jump - start production by repurpose old facility , it be a jumbo jet of a task . the World Economic Forum estimate that by 2030 , global demand for SAF be expect to reach 70 million tonne per annum — around 4 % to 5 % of total jet fuel consumption . meeting likely demand in just five year require an additional 5 . 8 million tonne of capacity . what be the investment require to reach even that relatively modest goal ? the WEF pitch it at somewhere between $ 19 billion and $ 45 billion globally . if that do not give our legislative autopilot the warning , " Terrain ! terrain ! pull up ! " , then it should do . new clause 1 be unaffordable , whether back by public or private finance , and I be afraid it be doom to fail . it be certain that the vast input cost will result in massively high cost for passenger and air freight . I support the vital new clause 6 , which would force an assessment of the economic impact of this Bill , which I fear will be nothing short of devastating . some might piously accept few flight to the Costas or a little less airfreighted Kenyan mangetout on the dinner table , but make air travel ruinously expensive will have implication for thousand of job — million globally — in not only aviation , but tourism . many flight be not indulgence , but lifeline . we be an island nation , and many community within the UK be entirely reliant on air link . will Britain — so long the pioneer of aviation , with a history stretch back to the first schedule international passenger flight and the first jet airliner — be foremost in SAF ? probably not , for mandate SAF be easy than produce it , especially in a country with power price as exorbitant as ours . energy bill in Dumfries in my constituency be four time what they be in Dumfries in Virginia in the United States , and they be cheap still in China . we need a lot of power to make SAF . many question its green credential when so much carbon be generate in its production . amendment 10 be a bid to explore the serious issue around SAF derive from either organic or synthetic source . much be make of an 80 % reduction in greenhouse gas use SAF source from waste fat and oil feedstock , but , as we have hear , those basic building block be in limited supply . that issue be also address in , though not solve by , new clause 2 . use crop as feedstock may not reduce greenhouse gas at all , and there be huge implication of turn prime agricultural land and billion of gallon of water over to produce crop for fuel , rather than food . again , Britain be at a disadvantage . America ' s vast corn belt might get involve , but the british bioethanol industry be a warning to we , for it be not able to survive on current target for the content in road fuel . other amendment , include amendment 11 , concern themselves with how a revenue certainty mechanism will operate . my concern be that we risk create a self - lick ice cream — a self - perpetuate system with no purpose other than to sustain itself . this Bill could guarantee money that simply offset the cost of manufacture SAF , which be itself make expensive by green levy . would it not be well to put what money we have available into aviation excellence , drive up the efficiency of jet engine and airframe ? aviation be already play its part in reduce its carbon footprint — accord to some expert , engine efficiency be already up by as much as 83 % from the early day of the de Havilland Comet jet liner . that progress can continue , although super - efficient jet need superalloy to handle the extreme of temperature in their engine , and those require the sort of rare earth that China be hoover up . Canada , by the way , have many of the same critical mineral ; might we be well off invest in those than subsidise SAF ? if we want really big carbon saving , we ought to look to the sea . much of what we trade — in and out — go by sea , and cargo ship be heavily reliant on bunker oil , a tar - like substance with heavy emission . if we want novel fuel , this island nation should look once more to Tennyson ' s " boundless deep " , where the salt - cake smoke stack belch still . meanwhile , the wild blue yonder of the sky must not be make inaccessible simply by expensive green dogma . aviation be central to our economy and our way of life , whether it be deliver well over 300 , 000 job here in the UK , contribute over £ 22 billion to our economy , drive inbound tourism , or connect community , business and family the world over . I be proud of our world - lead aviation sector in Derby and many other place across the UK , and while aviation be an integral part of our economy , it be also one of the most challenging to decarbonise . despite the scale of the challenge , though , we must keep push forward , because — as I have say before , and as I will say again now — without net zero in aviation , there be no net zero , full stop . to ensure that future generation be able to access the opportunity that air travel can provide , we need to make sure that fly be greener . this Bill do exactly that . it will unlock the potential of UK SAF by deliver the confidence and stability that SAF producer need to continue to turbocharge growth as they drive forward green innovation . I welcome the Bill as a clear statement of intent that this country be absolutely serious about decarbonise the future and future - proof our world - lead aviation sector . it be the right thing to do , and we must do it . I chair the all - party parliamentary group for the future of aviation , travel and aerospace , and the debate on SAF have be a focus of many of our meeting . as a cover - all , I should declare my interest , have meet with AirportsUK , Airlines UK , ADS Group , LanzaJet , Back british SAF , Valero , alfanar and other over the past six month . I also work in the aviation industry for 16 year prior to be elect . I rise to speak in support of new clause 1 to 5 , table by my colleague , and new clause 7 . I also encourage the Government to support amendment 8 and 9 , table by the Conservatives , which would strengthen and improve the Bill and give we the good chance to achieve its target . I will tell the House why . in 2023 , aviation account for 2 . 5 % of global energy - relate co2 emission ; however , when non - co2 effect be include , its contribution to climate warming increase to approximately 4 % . although that be a small fraction of global emission , it be not insignificant . however , in my experience , few sector take their role in bring down emission and tackle climate change as seriously as aviation , primarily because fuel burn and emission release be money spend . as other member have already make clear , decarbonise aviation and achieve net zero carbon UK aviation will require a huge range of different measure . measure such as Operation Blue Skies , a global contrail avoidance system , will reduce the density of the heat - trap contrail produce by aircraft , which create nearly half the overall climate - warm impact . continue improvement in aircraft engine and airframe efficiency be also critical , and that too have be mention by other . british innovation in aviation be something of which we should be incredibly proud . project such as the Airbus Wing of Tomorrow programme — which I see at the plant in Filton in Bristol this summer — deliver continue improvement in carbon emission per revenue passenger kilometre . that will form a huge slice of the reduction in fuel consumption . other innovation and scheme that be already in the mix also present opportunity for greener aviation . airspace modernisation will produce more direct flight route , less congested airspace and few en - route delay , and smart investment in capacity - building have the potential to reduce landing and take - off delay that burn fuel as aircraft circle airport or idle on taxiway wait for slot . in the long term , I have confidence in our world - lead aviation industry to develop true zero carbon aircraft power plant alternative such as battery , hybrid and hydrogen - power flight . an example be ZeroAvia , which be at the cutting edge of pure hydrogen - power flight in the Cotswolds and which I also visit in August . in the meantime , however , we must look to sustainable aviation fuel to reduce the carbon emission of our current technology aircraft , and bridge the gap until technology can catch up . this technology can deliver proportionately the great reduction in emission by 2050 . SAF can achieve an average of more than 70 % greenhouse gas emission saving on a lifecycle basis , and we can achieve twice as much energy capture by produce SAF as from produce energy from waste , for example . third - generation SAFs , at the most exciting cutting edge of SAF production , could produce aviation fuel from thin air by combine carbon dioxide and green hydrogen , power by renewable energy . when it come to the major contributor to climate change emission around the globe , almost every use of fossil fuel have a readily available alternative that can be swap in for immediate use . the only barrier be availability . we have make huge stride in industry where we recognise the benefit not just to the economy but to society , and to individual liberty and quality of life , which mean that we must preserve and enhance they for future generation . over the past 250 year , our train have develop from coal to diesel to electricity power . we never countenance the idea that we should use our rail network less , or travel less around the grow network of railway that build Great Britain for 200 year ; instead , we invest in the technology that allow we to continue to trade and travel with reduce emission and pollution . our electricity generation have go from coal to gas , and now to solar , wind and nuclear ; again , we do not suggest that we should phase out the lightbulb or electric kettle , or the factory power by electricity that build the export that be now trade around the world . we step up and become a world leader in carbon - free power . petrol - guzzle road vehicle be now be replace at an encouragingly fast rate by their hybrid and fully electric alternative — and , again , we do not suggest the retirement of the bus that carry the people , and the lorry that carry the good and serve as the backbone of Britain . we push forward with battery and hybrid power plant , and the tightening of emission standard for fossil fuel vehicle . Britain have long be able to bank on its wealth of innovation and expertise . we reject short - termism , and refuse to accept that the energy transition be a zero - sum game . in an age of populism — and , I dare say , eco - populism , whatever that be — it be more important than ever that we fall back on that proud tradition . we should not , in fact we can not , give in to a world view of climate action that be stunt by the blinker of a zero - growth , miserly , defeatist mindset . the british people deserve well than that . they can not be expect to go willingly into a green future if that future be one in which they be poor , or face restriction on their mobility and liberty , but that be exactly what restrict the ability of our community and industry to travel and trade around the world via our global aviation network would do . let I be clear : if I do not think we could make this transition in aviation , I would not be take this view . although I share and support the healthy scepticism of many of my colleague , I tend to approach issue like this with a " yes , if " — yiffy — attitude . yes , if we can deliver the SAF require to meet the SAF mandate target and the result emission reduction , we must go ahead with it . from everything I have learn from my own experience , everything I have hear and see from the industry , and my faith in great british innovation , I know we be capable of deliver that SAF . measure like those in this Bill provide a good starting point for this revolution . the Bill be support by all party and by UK airline and airport , and it should be straightforward to pass this afternoon . again , we be compete to make it well . I be glad to see that most of we in this place recognise that the UK ' s world - lead aviation sector support over 1 million UK job and be an enabler of key UK growth - generate industry and exporter , as recognise in the industrial strategy . I ask all member to support the burgeon domestic UK SAF industry as it seek to add 10 , 000 new job by 2030 and up to 60 , 000 by 2050 , thereby incentivise billion of pound of investment into former UK industrial heartland , as mention by colleague . I welcome the Minister to his place and thank he for finally deliver this Bill , follow his contribution in Committee . I encourage the Government to take on board the amendment and new clause , which I be sure be mean to improve this Bill and make our climate change goal that bit easy to achieve . I greatly welcome the progress of this vital Bill , which will help ensure that the United Kingdom take a genuine global lead in the development and use of sustainable aviation fuel . sustainable aviation fuel be the key to solve many of the challenge we face today and those we will face in the decade to come . aviation currently account for around 7 % of the UK ' s total emission . as demand for travel continue to grow , that figure will only rise , unless we act now . if we be to meet our net zero commitment while keep fly affordable and accessible , sustainable aviation fuel must be at the heart of our strategy . it offer one of the most practical and immediate way to decarbonise flight , reduce our reliance on fossil fuel and secure the economic future of one of Britain ' s most successful industry . that be why this Bill be so essential for our environment , our economy , our technological leadership and the future of british aviation . I would like to draw attention to the £ 4 . 5 million investment by Exolum in the exist Redcliffe Bay facility , in my constituency of North Somerset , which be already happen without the need for new clause 1 . it will be the home of the UK ' s first independent sustainable aviation fuel blending facility . when it become operational in 2026 , it will underpin green fuel supply for some 65 , 000 flight to major airport , include Heathrow , Gatwick , Cardiff and , of course , Bristol . my hon . friend be make a very powerful point . will he join I in thank our hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) and his predecessor , Alex Cunningham , for secure the Alfanar investment in that constituency , and our right hon . friend the Member for Redcar ( Anna Turley ) for secure investment at the Wilton International Centre , which will lead to many hundred of secure , permanent job ? my hon . friend be , of course , right to highlight such advocacy in the sector . I welcome his contribution . the Exolum project be not just a boost for our regional economy ; it be a clear signal that the UK can combine its climate ambition with a sound industrial strategy . the production subsidy for SAF introduce by this Bill be therefore already very welcome and be the right step forward , but production plant be only as good as their ability to get their product to market . without that capability , they can not attract investment or access the very subsidy that this Bill rightly establish . fortunately , the UK be bless with an extensive aviation fuel pipeline and storage network — one of the most advanced in the world . company such as Exolum be already use that network to deliver clean fuel across the country . from my visit to Redcliffe Bay , I know that Exolum have additional storage capacity that it would like to bring back into use to help deliver even more saf . company at the forefront of this shift , such as Exolum , must be support to deliver further investment at Redcliffe Bay in my constituency — and at other site — and across the national pipeline network to create a new SAF super - highway for the UK . such a network would allow producer to get their fuel to market efficiently , and it would secure our long - term position as a global leader in green aviation . crucially , my constituency be also home to Bristol airport , which have demonstrate real leadership in this sector . in March , almost a year ahead of the Government ' s mandate , Jet2 begin operate flight from Bristol airport use SAF , cut emission by an impressive 70 % . however , our ambition for clean flight can not stop at SAF . Bristol airport ' s same leadership can and should be apply to hydrogen in aviation , ensure that the south - west continue to lead the UK ' s journey to green sky . Hydrogen be a key element of the future aviation landscape and the broad energy transition . as we stand at the crossroad and decide which industry and technology to support , we must not overlook the infrastructure that will support hydrogen tomorrow , as well as its supply chain , its production and its distribution . investment in hydrogen benefit both the industry of today and the industry of 2050 . however , that investment require certainty , which only Government direction and leadership can provide via a road map already lay out in this Bill . I believe deeply in the potential of hydrogen , and I be proud that the south - west be uniquely position to take advantage of this opportunity . we have world - class research facility such as those I have visit at the University of Bath , innovative small and medium - sized enterprise such as Hyflux in North Somerset , and a cluster of industry already look to the hydrogen future . for my constituent in North Somerset , this Bill in its current form deliver both clean sky and a sustainable future for a vital industry . look ahead to hydrogen in aviation , the opportunity be particularly exciting for our region . the research , development , production and infrastructure require for hydrogen fuel be rightly take root in the south - west , near Bristol , which be the home of AI in the UK , where the fantastic Mayor , Helen Godwin , be create job , drive innovation and position we at the forefront of this emerge technology . this Bill be not merely climate policy ; it be economic strategy , industrial ambition and national leadership combine . sustainable aviation fuel be essential to the survival of our aviation industry , but let we not allow our ambition to cease there . Hydrogen represent another key to unlock our sustainable future in the UK , and this Bill provide we with the learning we will need to make hydrogen in aviation a reality . I be pleased to rise to speak to my new clause 7 and amendment 12 . I support the intention of the Bill , and I want to strengthen it with my amendment , which I believe be essential to ensure this legislation deliver a real , lasting impact for our climate , our economy and our position on the global stage . the Bill rightly seek to unlock private investment in UK sustainable aviation fuel through a revenue certainty mechanism . this be a welcome and necessary step that give certainty to business look to invest in this world - lead mechanism to decarbonise the aviation sector . however , if we be serious about climate leadership , prevent the bad effect of climate breakdown and long - term energy resilience , we must do more than build a framework ; we must prioritise the right fuel . that be why my new clause 7 focus on power - to - liquid sustainable aviation fuel . not all SAF be equal . power - to - liquid SAF be the clean , most sustainable option we have , in my opinion . it be make from renewable electricity and capture carbon , and it do not rely on limited or environmentally questionable feedstock such as use cook oil or palm derivative . it be future - proof , and it be essential if we be to hit our net zero target without compromise environmental integrity . the Government themselves , in their SAF mandate guidance , recognise power - to - liquid fuel as have the great potential . the Committee on Climate Change have say that we need 13 TWh of synthetic fuel by 2040 to stay on a credible path to net zero . the potential be there , but it will remain untapped unless we take deliberate action to bring this industry to life . new clause 7 be simple but strategic . it would require the Secretary of State to use the power under the Bill to prioritise enter into at least one revenue certainty contract with a power - to - liquid SAF producer , where do so will allow a project to reach final investment decision by the end of 2026 . I be not ask for handout . I be ask for the Government to show the leadership need to de - risk the first mover , just as other country be do across Europe and North America . without that certainty , no bank will lend and no project will proceed . new clause 7 would send a clear message that the UK be open for clean aviation , self - reliance and energy security . I thank my hon . friend for give way . he be make some very persuasive point . I support the intention of the Bill and push for these fuel be absolutely the right thing to do , but do he agree that we must also keep a focus on the wide opportunity — for example , in hydrogen , battery electric system and next generation e - fuel — if the UK be to be a leader in this technology ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention and I wholeheartedly agree . we in the UK have the capability to be a leader in these technology and we must take a collective approach on green energy for both environmental and economic gain . we need certainty for private capital to flow in and the delivery of long - term taxpayer return . amendment 12 look at the SAF mandate itself . it require a review within 12 month of the sub - target for power - to - liquid fuel to assess whether it be ambitious enough and whether it reflect the urgency of the climate challenge and the pace of international competition . this be not about set target in haste ; it be about ensure our target be base on evidence , consultation and real - world feasibility . the amendment explicitly require engagement with power - to - liquid producer , airline , expert and wide stakeholder , and it require that a report be lay before Parliament . let I be clear : I do not stand alone in call for this . More than 130 organisation , from airline and clean energy firm to researcher and investor , have call on the Government to prioritise PTL through the Bill . they have call for urgent engagement , timely regulation and a clear pathway to a commercial - scale plant in the UK by 2026 . we already know the EU be move fast , alongside Canada and the United States , with more ambition on PTL . if we fall behind , we will become importer of clean fuel , not exporter of clean technology and we will miss the industrial opportunity stare we in the face . time be of the essence , and we must all work together to get this right . I be listen very carefully to what the hon . Gentleman say and I completely support his good intention . the problem with sustainable aviation fuel be that it be perhaps five time more expensive than what we be currently pay , and that stock be very limited and — we have be talk about livestock feed — even more difficult . I be completely with he on the ambition , but we must also protect consumer right , the right to fly at a reasonable cost and the cost to the economy . as with all green energy policy , there must be a balance . I be sure he will agree with that . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention and I do understand his point . this be a transition . we be move away from fuel that be kill our environment and our ability to survive on planet Earth . it be a responsible thing to do to find way to reduce our reliance on carbon - generate fossil fuel through clean alternative . this may not be the final solution for aviation — it might be a transition . future technology and innovation might allow we to stop the use of such fuel altogether . More than 130 organisation from airline and clean energy firm to researcher and investor have call on the Government to prioritise PTL through the Bill . they have call for urgent engagement , timely regulation and a clear pathway to a commercial - scale plant in the UK by 2026 . as I have mention , the EU , Canada and the United States be move fast . we must not miss this industrial opportunity to take a lead in progress innovative saf alternative and license that technology around the world . we must act decisively , not incrementally . I support the sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill , but I believe we have a responsibility to make it strong , bold and more target towards the fuel that will truly deliver net zero . my amendment be practical , proportionate and widely support . they add not cost , but clarity , confidence and a commitment to a sector that need all three . if we want to lead the world in clean aviation , we must lead with action , not just ambition . I call on friend and colleague across the House to support the amendment in my name , and in do so to give PTL the foothold it need to take off in the UK . sustainable aviation fuel offer we a route to decarbonise one of the most carbon - intensive industry and to secure the future of our aviation sector in a way that be compatible with our net zero goal . climate change remain the great challenge of our time . it be an existential threat to we , our child and our grandchild , and every decision make in this House must be measure against the scale and the urgency of the crisis . aviation , while connect people and drive our economy , be a contributor to the problem . in 2022 , it be responsible for almost 30 million tonne of co2 , equivalent to about 7 % of the UK ' s total emission . even as emission from other sector decline , aviation ' s share be project to rise to 16 % by 2035 . that be not compatible with our net zero target , nor with our moral obligation to keep global temperature rise below 1 . 5 ° . sustainable aviation fuel be not a silver bullet , but it be a step towards address the challenge . as someone who spend almost a decade work in renewable energy , I have see how technology , innovation and the public trust must work hand in hand if we be to make lasting progress in address climate change . however , with innovation must come accountability , which be why I have table new clause 4 and 5 . these new clause would strengthen this Bill and aim to make the transition to clean flight more accountable , more transparent and , yes , more ambitious . new clause 4 would support the Secretary of State to raise sustainable fuel target in any give year and introduce a duty to consider annually whether the target should be increase . the Secretary of State would also be require to set out what step the Government will take to make any increase possible . in short , to ensure that the Government can not forget the target , it would require they to revisit , review and , wherever possible , raise their ambition for clean flight . new clause 4 would strengthen the parliamentary scrutiny . it would require the Government to lay a copy of each annual report before Parliament and share it with the relevant Select Committees in both Houses , mean proper oversight and public accountability . progress must not just be make ; it must be see to be make if we be go to take the public with we . new clause 5 would build on that principle of transparency and public engagement , require air travel provider to report annually on their sustainable aviation fuel in a way that passenger and the public can actually understand . too often , datum about emission and fuel use be bury in complex technical report that mean little to consumer . under this proposal , airline would publish both the total amount of SAF use and the proportion it represent of their overall fuel consumption . the hon . Gentleman be give a very detailed speech . would he agree that we already have the annual carbon budget audit , which look each year at exactly those emission and be what draw to our attention the growth in this sector and why we need to focus exactly on drive down emission from the aviation sector , which lead we to the SAF mandate ? do he acknowledge that we already have a mechanism for this , which have help we to get to where we be today with this excellent Bill ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention . she manage to make a detailed speech sound like a backhand compliment . I do not disagree with her point that we have several reporting standard , and my only counter - argument would be that I do not believe there can be too much transparency . if that result in information be present in a way that give the public further clarity and put great pressure on any Government to speed up the transition , that can only be a good thing . those figure must be present clearly in a format that be accessible and easy to find on website and in public material . that matter , because whether it be demonstrate that solar and wind power low bill , that carbon removal technology will provide job or that sustainable aviation fuel can cut emission , we must be transparent to build public trust and belief in what we be do . the power in this Bill to fund the strike price mechanism to levy fine on fuel supplier who fail to pay be all welcome , but they must be match by equally strong accountability to this House and the general public . the amendment I have propose would ensure that the Government be require to review progress every year , to explain how target will be strengthen , and to make transparent the actual use of sustainable fuel across the aviation industry . will the hon . member give way ? the hon . member be just in the nick of time , so I will . I thank the hon . member for give way . I would like to speak to his comment and those of the Father of the House about the impact on consumer . in Committee , the Government make it clear that they be alive not only to the consideration of cost and the impact on consumer , but to the extreme complexity of how aircraft logistic and fuel function across global market , and how aircraft be operate on a day - to - day basis . that make some of these reporting requirement extremely difficult for airline to deliver . we do not want to create a burden of bureaucracy that drive airline away from sustainable fuel and back towards unsustainable pure fossil source . I support the Government ' s position that we should stay where we be and build process that provide accountability . I think I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I be afraid that I do not agree that increase reporting burden on industry be a bad thing . every industry will argue that reporting be onerous . the liturgy start with water company . company will hide behind not have to report . on the need to move forward with technology , I be remind that Henry Ford once say , " if I ask people what they want , they would say a fast horse . " the reality be that technology will be the route to our achieve our net zero goal , and this be one step on that pathway . I will finish . new clause 4 and 5 would strengthen this Bill , strengthen public confidence and demonstrate the UK ' s global leadership , and I very much hope the Government will support they . that bring we to the Front - Bench contribution . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . this have be an informative debate on all the new clause . from a procedural point of view , we be happy not to push new clause 1 to a Division . to begin , I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests with regard to the synthetic road fuel provide to I for a constituency surgery tour last year . that be not strictly relevant to sustainable aviation fuel , but I want to be entirely transparent about it , as I have be throughout this Bill ' s passage . may I also welcome the new Minister to his place ? he have a big pair of shoe to fill , and I equally want to commend the hon . member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) — we do not always see entirely eye to eye — for the effort and attention he put in to get this Bill through the House and to his other duty in the House . I begin with new clause 6 , which require the Secretary of State to lay before Parliament a report on the economic impact of the Act once it be in force . this amendment go to the nub of what be important . do the Bill enable growth or stifle it ? do it support our world - class aviation industry or go against it ? more importantly , do it enable our constituent to do what they have always do and fly , be that on holiday , on business or to visit family and friend overseas , or do it hinder they in do that ; and do it hinder our business in bring good in and out of the country by air ? new clause 6 force the Secretary of State to confront the reality of the Bill on multiple front . it cover the impact on the UK ' s aviation fuel industry and the UK ' s sustainable aviation fuel supply , and the impact on small , medium and large producer and potential importer of sustainable aviation fuel . could the hon . member clarify over what period the Government would do the cost impact assessment , if they be to do one ? do he agree that the transition to any new technology require significant initial upfront investment ? all the trillion - dollar company in the world be lose million before they become profitable . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I will come on to some of the technological point he make early , which it may surprise he to hear that I be incredibly sympathetic towards . on the timescale he ask for , I think it reasonable that , when a new Act come into force , the Government should review it on a yearly basis at least , if not more frequently , to check that it be work . the point he make be valid , and I thank he for it . last on the list of impact cover by new clause 6 be the impact on international and domestic tourism in the UK and passenger air fare . we in this House can pass all manner of law and scheme , and we can mandate new thing , but their impact , include on the wide economy , matter . review like the one propose by new clause 6 would ensure that government of all political persuasion monitor real - life outcome and , if necessary , tweaked provision — or completely change course . I can not for the life of I understand why any Government would run scared of such a clause ; it would help they govern well in the long run . the hon . Member will know that country right across the world be move towards SAF . have he review they to understand what be unique about the UK that mean that we be vulnerable , while other country be able to drive ahead ? be these country undertake the same bureaucratic review of their own legislation , and which country be he model his approach on ? I think it be necessary for any Government to review the legislation they be pass to check that it actually work , do what it say on the tin , and do not negatively impact real people and business go about their day - to - day life . if he have pay attention to the debate in previous stage of this Bill , he will know that I support a move to sustainable aviation fuel ; I will come on to that shortly , when I speak about other amendment . I think , as the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) do , that some technology be superior to other when it come to power - to - liquid , but the move to those fuel be very important . we have to get it right . if we do not , and we do not make it affordable , it will not happen . I commend my hon . friend on his speech . do he agree that the conservative way be to ensure practicality over mere ideology , and consumer right over Government imposition of control and regulation that can do serious damage to the economy and people ' s livelihood ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Father of the House ; I could not have put it well myself . it be essential that whatever measure , on any matter , be bring forward by any government — be it the current Government or any future government — real people ' s life and the cost base be review regularly , so that we be not make people poor , or stop people from be able to do what they want , be it go on holiday , travel for business or move good around . with that , I come to amendment 8 and the cost impact on passenger . the amendment would require the designated counterparty to report on the impact of the revenue certainty mechanism on passenger air fare . one of the most contentious area surround the Bill , and indeed the Government ' s whole approach to net zero , be : what do it actually cost real people ? the amendment seek to clarify that , and it give the Government the opportunity — in theory , they should cheerfully embrace this — to lock in a claim that they profess to believe , namely that the Bill will have an impact of plus or minus £ 1 . 50 on air fare . the previous Minister repeat that statistic time and again on Second Reading and in Committee . the new Minister have the challenge today of either stick with his predecessor ' s assertion , back the amendment and lock in protection for consumer , or admit that this may well be more costly to air traveller . it be worth note that during the evidence stage of Bill Committee , none of the witness be willing to affirm the Government ' s figure . in fact , some note that the estimate price appear low . for example , Jonathon Counsell from International Airlines Group state : " we think there be potentially some element that have not be include in that calculation , but £ 1 . 50 per passenger feel quite low when you think the cost of the SAF itself will be near to £ 10 . " – – [ Official Report , sustainable Aviation Fuel Public Bill Committee , 15 July 2025 ; c . 17 , Q12 . ] consumer need peace of mind that the Bill will not cost they dear , and will not act as a financial barrier to the family holiday or any other trip , so failure to back the amendment can only mean uncertainty . I turn to amendment 11 , which be focus on transparency . the amendment would require the Secretary of State to set a standardise levy rate , payable by all supplier of aviation fuel , that must be publicise by supplier of aviation fuel on invoice to their customer . Valero , for example — one of the world ' s large renewable fuel producer — have contact the opposition argue for the amendment , say that it would offer a workable solution ; it would support the development of new SAF production without significantly impact the industry as a whole . the amendment would apply the levy equally to all jet fuel supplier , provide a fair and transparent mechanism for support the broad SAF industry . just this week , I have be contact by Virgin Atlantic , which be argue that transparency safeguard must be in place to keep cost low for consumer . as organisation include the International Air Transport Association have highlight , since the mandate come into effect in January 2025 , fuel supplier have be add compliance risk premium to the cost of mandated SAF , contribute to the price of SAF and double it for some carrier . that be to cover the eventuality that they do not meet the 2 % mandate target and must pay the buy - out price for any miss volume . Virgin Atlantic have argue that to prevent SAF price increase far , the revenue certainty mechanism must have sufficient safeguard in place to ensure transparency over cost pass - through . there must also be a transparent process for refund in the event of over - collection , and all revenue generate under the RCM should be ringfence , rather than go into the general taxation pot . amendment 9 look at british technology and intellectual property . it would require the designated counterparty to prioritise UK - base technology when enter contract . as I say from the Dispatch Box on Second Reading , there be a historical reality that we need to confront , and the amendment would stop history repeat itself . the historical error that I refer to be this : a great many project support by grant from the advanced fuel fund use foreign - own technology . it can not be right that the british state , while argue for domestic fuel security , fund overseas technology when we have incredible innovator and manufacturer right here . domestic fuel security must mean domestic fuel ip , manufacture and supply . it be important both to develop a UK market for SAF , esaf and local production , as be provide for by the Bill and the mandate , and to support and encourage the use of home - grow technology for the manufacture of those product . that not only retain revenue in the United Kingdom but leverage a huge amount of revenue for future export through technology licensing . the amendment tackle that head - on , and a failure to back it would be a failure to back United Kingdom innovator . lastly , amendment 10 be on technological choice . it state : " the term under subsection ( 4 ) ( c ) must include a requirement for the producer to consider the longevity of supply and relative environmental impact when prioritise between organic and synthetic derive sustainable aviation fuel solution . " I feel incredibly strongly about this amendment . it be on a matter that I have champion in this House for many year — in the last Parliament , during my time on the Transport Committee and , since July , from this Dispatch Box . the amendment be in the name of the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , and it be relevant to new clause 7 and amendment 12 in the name of the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley , both of which I have a great deal of sympathy for . government of all political persuasion have profess to be technologically neutral . they seldom be . there be a natural tendency to pick winner and loser . we need to look through that lens , and ask ourselves what the Bill be promote and use the lever of primary legislation to enable . the disappointing answer to that be the potential to bring alive SAF plant use technology that have already be supersede — plant that would therefore be temporary at well . step up something with no longevity , and with an estimate build cost of between £ 600 million and £ 2 billion , would be no small mistake . power - to - liquid solution , otherwise know as esaf or synthetic fuel — liquid hydrocarbon literally make out of air and water — be surely the well and sustainable future for aviation fuel . we have debate on Second Reading and in Committee about other solution . I can not imagine that anyone be ready to defend grow food to burn it , but equally , waste - derive fuel simply be not sustainable in the long term . solid waste be not readily available ; the primary source be local authority , the majority of which be on contract with energy - from - waste facility and incinerator that have decade to run . likewise , I be not sure there be enough chip oil in the country to meet our aviation fuel need . that leave power - to - liquid solution and esaf . many say that it be not ready ; some say it be too expensive ; but those of we on the Public Bill Committee hear loud and clear from Zero Petroleum that it be ready to scale right now . it just need the green light from the regulator , and with scale will come affordability . amendment 10 be in many way a light - touch amendment to bring this debate to the fore . it do not close down other technological route , but force the Government to acknowledge the risk , both to the environment and in term of cost , when choose contract under the RCM . as other speaker have say , the Bill can still be improve . I urge the Minister to accept the amendment , which would improve the Bill , and to ensure a strong and affordable future for sustainable aviation fuel in our great United Kingdom . before I turn to the amendment before we , I would like to thank the many hon . member who have make considered and helpful contribution . this legislation have be long in the making , and few have be more central in bring it to fruition than my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , who I would like to thank personally for his effort throughout the Second Reading and Committee stage . likewise , I would like to thank my hon . friend the Members for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) , for Worcester ( Tom Collins ) , for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) , for Sunderland Central ( Lewis Atkinson ) , for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) , for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) , for Norwich North ( Alice Macdonald ) , for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) , for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) and for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) for all their work in Committee . it now turn to I to pick up the task and continue the work on this piece of legislation that introduce measure to support the production of SAF in the UK . until now , there have be consensus across the House about the need to act fast , get it right and drive investment into the SAF industry while ensure that fly remain affordable for the british public . those priority , and the central aim of the Bill , remain clear : to create a market for UK SAF production ; to progress our aim of decarbonise aviation ; and to create green skilled job across the United Kingdom . first , I will turn to some of the point raise in the debate . the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) ask what plan we have in place to achieve our decarb aim . through the mechanism in the Bill , UK SAF production could account for 6 . 3 megatonne of carbon saving by 2040 . that provide an attractive business case for business to scale up their exist SAF effort in the UK — but it go far broad than that . the Government ' s other priority around airspace modernisation , low and zero emission aircraft , meet our UK emission trading scheme and carbon offset and reduction scheme for international aviation — CORSIA — obligation and address the non - co2 impact of aviation will also be instrumental in this work . the Minister mention a reduction of 6 . 3 megatonne , but what be that as a proportion of the current emission ? no piece of legislation can deal with all the emission that we be face through challenge in the aviation sector . that be why we have this comprehensive package of measure to make decarbonise aviation while allow passenger to fly at an affordable rate a reality . the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) speak with his usual fervent passion in support of his constituent . the National Wealth Fund stand ready to encourage investor to join we in find a long - term industrial future for Grangemouth , stand ready to invest £ 200 million once an investable proposition have be identify . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) raise the unfortunate closure of Vivergo . the Government have be work with the plant to understand the financial challenge that it have face over the last decade , but I would like to reassure she that we do not anticipate supply issue in bioethanol provision . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Worcester for his decided and confident support for the measure in the Bill . the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) say that the market be too nascent , but I encourage he to look at the detail of the Bill . he will see that that be exactly the problem we be seek to solve through this legislation , by allow SAF producer to scale at pace and pursue those innovative technology . he also speak about Britain as an aviation leader . the RCM be a first - of - its - kind global initiative to allow SAF producer to produce the fuel we so desperately need . he also encourage I to sort out decarbonisation challenge in maritime . I draw his attention to the fact that the UK Government announce £ 448 million of funding to decarbonise the maritime sector only a fortnight ago . my hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) have Jaguar Land Rover within his constituency and be a passionate advocate for both the automotive and aviation sector there . he speak about the urgent need to encourage people to fly — to enable they to access the rest of the world , to see their family and to pursue business opportunity . that be something that we be passionate about championing through the Bill . the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) be pleased to see that the Bill be support across the House . I can only hope that he be correct in his prediction . we shall see . I note that there be no representative from the Green party here today to focus on these important measure to decarbonise aviation . hon . member from across the House can take from that what they will . the hon . Gentleman be right to outline the broad work that be require to decarbonise aviation , include airspace modernisation , but also to talk up our fantastic UK aviation sector and the hard work that it be undertake to pursue decarbonisation . my hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) point to the very important fact that we be endow with key infrastructure , such as pipeline , pioneer by firm like Exolum , the research facility in his constituency to which he point and the pioneer work of Bristol airport . we need to develop a market to facilitate that infrastructure far . the 70 % cut in emission through SAF be an exciting proposition indeed . there be a number of government amendment that I would like hon . member to consider . government amendment 6 allow for levy regulation to require the Secretary of State to assist the designate counterparty by collect information and share it with the designated counterparty . it will also allow for the regulation to be use to impose requirement on a person to provide information to the Secretary of State . it be a technical amendment that will ensure that the information require to calculate individual levy contribution be provide at sufficient frequency , while not create additional administrative burden for industry . government amendment 1 allow the Secretary of State to direct a government - own company to provide assistance for the purpose of identify to whom revenue certainty contract should be allocate . the allocation process for RCM contract will be fair and transparent to give confidence to any applicant . in other renewable scheme , contract allocation be often carry out through an auction process . the allocation process for contract for difference for renewable electricity be carry out through the National Energy System Operator , or NESO , which be an operationally independent , publicly own body . that type of approach to allocation may also be suitable for RCM contract , so the amendment will allow the Secretary of State to direct a body like NESO to support in the allocation process . the final decision on allocation , however , remain with the Secretary of State . without the amendment , the same allocation process could be pursue , but that would need to be do on a contractual basis through a procurement process , which would add unnecessary cost and complexity to the process . the amendment avoid those unnecessary impact . I therefore commend it and all other Government amendment to the House . I would ask that new clause 1 to 3 , which be table by the Liberal Democrats , be withdraw . they be introduce in identical form in Committee , and my remark will closely reflect the point my predecessor make then . the amendment seek a review of the impact of the revenue certainty mechanism within the next 12 month . I be afraid that that be not reasonable , as the revenue certainty mechanism trigger only once SAF be be produce , and even at pace , that be some year off . it will take time to build SAF plant , initially start with a contract allocation round with SAF producer . therefore , we will not see sufficient development in the next 12 month to warrant a review of the impact of the revenue certainty mechanism . I agree , however , that it be important to have parliamentary scrutiny to measure the impact of the Act and to propose action if necessary . the SAF mandate already include a review clause to assess the impact of the statutory instrument , with the first review schedule within five year . that be in line with comparable scheme . with regard to new clause 1 , I can reassure the House that work be be carry out at pace across Government on the future of our refinery . commission a separate report , as the new clause propose , risk a delay to future decision and any subsequent benefit that may be realise . overall , we expect low - carbon fuel production to support up to 15 , 000 job across the country and to make a contribution to the economy of up to £ 5 billion by 2050 . I commend the Minister , and wish he well in his new role and in all that he do . the legislation extend to Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , so what discussion have be take place with the Northern Ireland Assembly to ensure that we can see its benefit — to both employment and the wide economy — in Northern Ireland ? the hon . member raise a very important point . we need to ensure that the benefit of the Act be feel across the length and breadth of our United Kingdom , and that include engage with our colleague in the Northern Ireland Assembly . I turn to new clause 2 . we do not anticipate a substantial impact on SAF production in the event of a decline in UK bioethanol production . the bioethanol market be a global one , and we do not currently foresee any supply issue . furthermore , the recommendation in new clause 2 be already under way and duplicate measure can already be find in the SAF mandate . in July , a total of £ 63 million be award to 17 project via the advanced fuel fund . that include project that use bioethanol , municipal solid waste and green hydrogen as feedstock , among other source . the Chancellor also announce in the spending review 2025 that we will continue to support SAF production throughout the spending review period . the SAF mandate also include a formal review mechanism embed in its legislation , with the first review schedule to take place within five year . new clause 3 would also duplicate measure that already exist in the SAF mandate . the mandate award more certificate per litre to SAF with high greenhouse gas saving , which will encourage SAF developer to continuously improve on their greenhouse gas saving . this will be monitor through the formal review mechanism , with the possibility to update legislation as require . I hope that this reassure the hon . member for Didcot and Wantage that , in many respect , the concern he outline be allay by exist measure in the Bill . I therefore urge he not to push his new clause . new clause 6 , table by the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , would require the Secretary of State to lay before Parliament a report on the economic impact of the legislation within a year of it be pass . such a report would not show the full economic impact of these measure . contract will need to be negotiate , sign , plant build and SAF produce and sell before economic impact be release . transparency on report in relation to the Act ' s economic impact can be achieve through regular update to the House . therefore , I do not see the new clause as be effectual , if he wish to evaluate the economic impact of the RCM . I therefore ask he not to move his new clause . new clause 5 , table by the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) , would require the Secretary of State to introduce a regulation require airline to make an annual report on their use of SAF , both in absolute volume and as a percentage of overall fuel use . I welcome transparency on carbon emission to help consumer make informed choice . however , we will be provide datum on the supply of SAF under the mandate , include what proportion of the total aviation fuel supply be SAF . furthermore , many airline already provide public information on their decarbonisation effort , and I therefore do not believe this new clause be necessary and ask the hon . member not to move it . new clause 4 and 7 , table by the hon . member for West Dorset and the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) respectively , relate to power - to - liquid obligation . on new clause 4 , the Government have already commit to keep mandate target under review . the exist legislation enable the Secretary of State to amend obligation under the SAF mandate , subject to consultation with those affected and scrutiny by Parliament . allow amendment to the obligation without consult appropriate party could be detrimental to our shared ambition of increase the use of SAF . on new clause 7 , the legislation that give effect to the SAF mandate already make provision for a review no later than 2030 . give that the mandate have be in place for less than 12 month and the PtL obligation do not come into effect until 2028 , it would not be helpful to review early than plan . I therefore ask the hon . member not to move their new clause . amendment 8 , table by the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay , would put a requirement on the counterparty to report on the effect of the introduction of the RCM on air travel price . this be speak to by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) . the Government be commit to deliver value for money in the RCM scheme by control the scale and number of contract enter into , and through the price negotiate in each contract . the impact on air fare be likely to rise or fall by less than the cost of a cup of coffee . the cost of the scheme and the impact on ticket price will be keep under continual review . passenger should also benefit from the low price generate from the low project risk and reduce cost of capital for SAF producer . therefore , the Bill and the measure in it will not limit people ' s ability to fly . give that , I ask the right hon . member not to move the amendment . I turn to amendment 9 and 10 , table by the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay , and to amendment 12 , table by the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley . the decision on the specific of contract allocation will be make during the contract allocation process . there will be a fair and transparent allocation process that evaluate the key cost , benefit and risk of each project . that will be develop over the come month and will be subject to consultation with stakeholder . these amendment would reduce the Government leverage in negotiation by set criterion in advance and would likely reduce value for money in the contract sign , which I be sure all of we would seek to avoid . I therefore ask that these amendment be not move . finally , I turn to amendment 11 , table by the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay . in May 2025 , the Government publish the response to the consultation on fund the SAF revenue certainty mechanism . it confirm that a variable levy on aviation fuel supplier would be introduce , and this be include in the content of the Bill . the Government plan to consult imminently on the detailed design of the levy , but this amendment would pre - empt stakeholder response , which will be consider in any design decision . I therefore ask the right hon . member not to press the amendment . I hope that my response have provide the explanation and reassurance that colleague be seek . the Bill be a crucial step towards establish a SAF industry in the UK and drive investment , growth and job across our great country . once again , I urge the House to give the Bill its full support . Mr Glover , be it your pleasure that new clause 1 be withdraw ? I beg to ask leave to withdraw the clause . clause , by leave , withdraw . New Clause 5 - air travel provider ' use of sustainable aviation fuel : reporting requirement ( 1 ) within six month of the passing of this Act , the Secretary of State must , by regulation , establish a requirement for air travel provider to report annually on their use of sustainable aviation fuel . ( 2 ) regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) must specify — ( a ) that the annual report include figure for sustainable aviation fuel usage which can be easily understand , include express as — ( i ) an absolute volume , and ( ii ) proportion of all aviation fuel use ; and ( b ) that the annual report be accessible to member of the public include by be make available on their website . ( 3 ) any regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) must be make under the negative procedure . " — ( Olly Glover . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane David Chadwick Danny Chambers Ellie chown Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Jonathan Hinder Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Graham Leadbitter James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Brendan o ' Hara Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Joshua Reynolds Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Tom Morrison Susan Murray Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Jo Stevens will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Mark Tami Alison Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Mark Ferguson Deirdre Costigan the House divide : Ayes 78 , Noes 316 . question accordingly negative . Amendment make : 1 , page 2 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) the Secretary of State may — ( a ) direct a relevant company to provide any assistance the Secretary of State may require for the purpose of identify producer in respect of which to make a direction under subsection ( 1 ) , and ( b ) make payment to the relevant company in respect of that assistance . ( 4b ) in subsection ( 4A ) " relevant company " mean a company that be limit by share each of which be hold by a Minister of the Crown . " — ( Keir Mather . ) this amendment allow the Secretary of State to direct a government - own company to provide assistance for the purpose of identify to whom revenue certain contract should be allocate . the company might , for example , be direct to carry out an auction process . clause 2 - notice of direction and revocation amendment make : 2 , page 2 , line 10 , after " 1 " insert " ( 1 ) " . this be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 3 , page 2 , line 12 , after " 1 " insert " ( 1 ) " . — ( Keir Mather . ) this be consequential on Amendment 1 . clause 4 - designation of counterparty Amendment make : 4 , page 3 , line 19 , leave out subsection ( 9 ) . — ( Keir Mather . ) the be consequential on Amendment 7 which relocate the definition of " company " to clause 16 so that it apply for the purpose of the whole Bill ( since amendment 1 refer to company ) . clause 6 - Levy on supplier Amendment make : 5 , page 4 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( apart from cost incur in comply with a direction under section 1 ( 4A ) ) " . — ( Keir Mather . ) the be consequential on Amendment 1 . clause 8 - Administration etc of levy and dispute Amendment make : 6 , page 5 , line 9 , leave out subsection ( 1 ) and insert — " ( 1 ) levy regulation may — ( a ) confer function on the designated counterparty in connection with the administration and enforcement of the levy ; ( b ) require the Secretary of State to assist the designated counterparty in connection with those function by collect information and provide it to the designated counterparty . ( 1A ) Levy regulation may require a person to provide information to the designated counterparty or the Secretary of State ( on request or otherwise ) for purpose connect with the administration and enforcement of the levy . " — ( Keir Mather . ) this amendment allow levy regulation to require the Secretary of State to assist the designate counterparty by collect information and share it with the designated counterparty . it also allow the regulation to impose requirement on people to provide information to the Secretary of State . clause 12 - power to direct designate counterparty amendment propose : 8 , page 7 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) a direction give under subsection ( 1 ) must include a requirement for the designated counterparty to report on — ( a ) the impact of any revenue certainty contract on the fluctuation of the average price to consumer of an airfare over the proceed 12 month period ; ( b ) a projection of the expect impact of any revenue certainty contract on the fluctuation of the average price to consumer of an airfare over the follow five year period . ( 4 ) a report under paragraph ( a ) must be make within one year of the date of Royal Assent to this Act and annually thereafter . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report make under paragraph 3 ( a ) before Parliament . " — ( Greg Smith . ) this amendment would require the designated counterparty to report on the impact that the revenue certainty mechanism have on passenger air fare . question put , that the amendment be make . Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey John Milne Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Nick Timothy Rebecca Smith Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Jo Stevens will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Mark Tami Alison Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Mark Ferguson Deirdre Costigan the House divide : Ayes 151 , Noes 319 . question accordingly negative . amendment propose : 9 , page 7 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) a direction give under subsection ( 1 ) must include a requirement for the designated counterparty , where a venue certainty contract would result in a new production facility , to prioritise enter into any such contract with producer that will use UK own technology in that facility . " — ( Greg Smith . ) this amendment would require the designated counterparty to prioritise UK - base technology when enter contract . question put , that the amendment be make . Gideon Amos Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi John Milne Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Smith Nick Timothy Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Lee Barron Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Jo Stevens will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Alison Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Deirdre Costigan Mark Ferguson the House divide : Ayes 160 , Noes 324 . question accordingly negative . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 11 June ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . clause 16 - Interpretation Amendment make : 7 , page 8 , line 15 , at end insert — " " company " mean a company register under the Companies Act 2006 ; " . — ( Keir Mather . ) this be consequential on Amendment 1 . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . early today , the Prime Minister promise that certain paper would be publish as soon as they could be , but he do not give a time . have there be any indication of when those paper will be publish ? we be still wait for they . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . while that be not a matter for the Chair , I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have hear what he say . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Aviation Safety ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 16 July , be approve . — ( Deidre Costigan . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Extradition that the draft Extradition Act 2003 ( amendment to Designations ) Order 2025 , which be lay before this House on 17 July , be approve . — ( Deidre Costigan . ) question agree to . Modernisation Committee Ordered , that Marie Goldman be discharge from the Modernisation Committee and Bobby Dean be add . — ( Deidre Costigan . ) Petition - Privatisation of Sycamore Adventure Centre thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to present a petition this evening on behalf of the constituent of Dudley . despite the conservative council pledge funding in a public question and answer session in April , the Sycamore Adventure Centre be due to be privatised , with a risk of a hike in entrance fee . the centre must remain solely control by Dudley council . the petition " declare that Sycamore Adventure Centre have serve as a vital , safe and inclusive community space for child , young people … in the area ; that for decade , it have be more than just a play site — it have foster community cohesion , support child ' s physical and mental health , and give young people a place to explore , learn , and grow … the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to stop the privatisation of Sycamore Adventure Centre , guarantee that access to the centre remain open and free ( or affordable ) to all family , preserve the current number of play session and hour of operation , and work with local resident , staff , and young people to protect and enhance the centre as a value community resource . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Dudley . declare that Sycamore Adventure Centre have serve as a vital , safe , and inclusive community space for child , young people , and family in the area ; that for decade , it have be more than just a play site — it have foster community cohesion , support child ' s physical and mental health , and give young people a place to explore , learn , and grow ; that the petitioner call for an immediate halt to the propose privatisation of Sycamore Adventure Centre , which would reduce accessibility by introduce fee or limitation that restrict entry for family already face financial hardship , cut down play opportunity and available hour , leave child with few safe and constructive activity , undermine community ownership of a space that belong to all of we , shift its priority from public benefit to private profit ; and that public recreational space like Sycamore Adventure Centre must remain publicly fund , publicly run , and accessible to all . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to stop the privatisation of Sycamore Adventure Centre , guarantee that access to the centre remain open and free ( or affordable ) to all family , preserve the current number of play session and hour of operation , and work with local resident , staff , and young people to protect and enhance the centre as a value community resource . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ P003117 ] work for serve Prisoners Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Deidre Costigan . ) in my early year as a barrister , I sometimes come across defendant who know the criminal justice system well than I . their antecedent — their list of previous conviction — be page long , show multiple stint in prison . I use to do both prosecution and defence , and I remember some defendant even share with I their top tip as to what might be the strong argument for bail or the good mitigation point in sentencing , because they have be through the process so many time . I also see offender sentence to custody for the first time , take their turn in what be far too often a revolving door of prison . sometimes , they be send to prison far from home . it be so common to see offender lose family tie , their housing , their job and any sense of purpose . after week , month or year , they would come out have achieve nothing , often with little or no money , no job and little confidence or self - worth . I compliment my hon . friend on her excellent speech . do she agree that improve literacy in prison be a powerful tool for rehabilitation and reintegration ? literacy equip prisoner with essential communication and comprehension skill , lay the foundation for further education and vocational training . by foster reading , writing and critical thinking ability , inmate become much well prepare for employment opportunity within prison and upon release . that not only enhance their self - worth and confidence , but reduce reoffende by open pathway to stable work . do she agree that invest in prison literacy be an investment in safe community and more productive life ? my hon . friend make a powerful point . invest in education and work be a key part of prevent reoffende . frustratingly , without rehabilitation the alternative be a return to the easy path — one of crime . we then see the revolving door of prison take another turn . without intervention , one in two prison leaver reoffend within six month of release . some 80 % of offending be reoffende , and reoffende cost the UK an estimate £ 18 . 1 billion per year . I commend the hon . Lady on bring forward this debate . when I hear what she be go to speak about , I want to intervene : first , because it be an admirable subject , and secondly , because I fully support what she be try to achieve . I hope that the Minister will come back to she along those line . do the hon . Lady agree that rehabilitation must take place in prison , that part of rehabilitation be about give the prisoner confidence that they can do something of value and worth , and that training in a new skill can do more for rehabilitation than group therapy session ? that be the way to give an ex - inmate or prisoner the opportunity to do well , and that be what we should be do . it be not a bona fide Adjournment debate unless the hon . Member have intervene , so I thank he for his intervention and his insight . I fully agree with he . as well as have see countless example of prison have not work , I have meet former offender who have escape the revolve door , often through work . many have story like Mark ' s . Mark spend 15 year in and out of prison on five separate occasion , but — with the support of a project call Jericho House in Derby — he be now clean , stable and gainfully employ . the issue of work in prison be something we have consider on the Justice Committee . separately , I have recently visit prison , where I have the opportunity to talk to prisoner . do my hon . friend agree that meaningful work in prison can not only erase the boredom that can lead to drug use but give prisoner skill that they can use to find employment when they be release from prison ? it enable they to reintegrate into society , thereby reduce the risk of reoffende . I agree , and I want to see work in prison start as early as possible — not just at the end of a prisoner ' s sentence but during it . I be proud to stand on a manifesto pledge to get offender into work . that offender should work be a conclusion that be intuitively obvious to I , have be a barrister , and that be also empirically support . rehabilitation without get into work be rare . for those who have offend , and consider the impact on the rest of we , working be far well than sit in cell most day . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way , and I agree entirely with what she say about the importance of meaningful work or purposeful activity in prison . on that basis , do she share my concern that the court backlog mean that there be thousand of prisoner on remand who be not require to do purposeful activity and be often sentence to a walk - out , essentially — go back into our community without have have the opportunity of work in prison to help with their rehabilitation ? I thank my hon . friend for her contribution and for make that powerful point . that be why the Government be do so much to reduce the backlog . work in prison also come with a host of second - order benefit , such as improve prisoner behaviour , filling skill gap and boost the economy . I do not underestimate the scale of the challenge in turn around our prison ; nor do I seek to claim that we could get all prisoner in prison start to work tomorrow . I pay tribute to the work of our current Home Secretary , who when Justice Secretary get to grip with the crisis she inherit of prison near to complete collapse . over the 14 year of Conservative Government , prisoner participation in education , employment and vocational qualification drop sharply . as the previous Government be come to their end , his Majesty ' s inspectorate of prison condemn the " appalling " neglect of how prisoner spend their time ; far too many be lock in cell without meaningful activity . in category c prison — closed prison , but with low security than those in category a or b — nearly a quarter of prisoner report get less than two hour unlock each day . my local woman ' s prison be HMP Styal , and my hon . friend will be aware of the Clink Charity , which do work in develop people ' s skill in hospitality . its ability to operate in HMP Styal collapse completely because , as there be such a shortage of prison officer , the woman be lock up for so much of the time that it be simply unable to provide the service . in other prison , the charity be be force to retender for contract on a commercial basis . it be a not - for - profit that be set up to do that work . I encourage the Minister — I wonder whether my hon . friend agree — to review whether contracting in the Ministry of Justice be really work as we need it to in that regard . I thank my hon . friend for her contribution . there be some really fantastic work be do , which I will come on to , and it be essential that we find way of enable even more of that , because time stick in prison do not improve behaviour ; it make it bad . in the last year of the Conservative Government , we see assault on prison staff increase by 23 % . the £ 15 million investment in body armour and Tasers announce by the Deputy Prime Minister in recent week show that he be give prison staff the tool they need to do their job safely , but anything we can do to reduce the chance of violent incident deserve our full support — that include meaningful activity such as work in prison — because those on the frontline in our prison system deserve our full support . prison officer at HMP Ranby tell I what a difference it make to the behaviour of prisoner when they be do work — when their day have purpose . as well as the improve behaviour that work for prisoner lead to , nearly a fifth of the earning of prisoner who work out of prison on licence go to the Prisoners ' earning Act levy , which support victim of crime . we have a Government commit to investment and reform and take a long - term view of what be need for a justice system that work . our Minister for Prisons , Probation and Reducing Reoffending , Lord Timpson , be a businessman who throughout his career enable offender to turn their life around and break the cycle . I have seek to be candid about how bad thing be in some of our prison , but I also want to talk about some of the brilliant work already happen , which can be build on and scale up . I praise the hundred of employer who be point the way forward . in Derby , we have Pennine Healthcare , an employee - own medical equipment manufacturer , and its successful experience of employ prisoner have lead to its long - term vision for rehabilitation - focus employment opportunity , for itself and potentially across the sector . Pennine support a release on temporary licence scheme . I be proud to welcome the former Justice Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) , to its headquarters in Derby . I go with he to HMP Ranby to see where Pennine be establish a workshop , which it call Project Phoenix . it will operate as an extension of the Derby site , and it will also prevent manufacturing from be offshore to competitor 7 , 000 km away in China . it could not have be more positive about the motivation and work ethic of the prisoner work for it . that be a practical solution to meet some of the workforce challenge face UK manufacturing , at a time when many employer share with I the difficulty that they can have in recruit people with the skill that they need . it could create a pipeline of train worker who can have job that they know how to do available to they when they leave prison . the difference that could make to offender ’ chance of avoid another turn of the revolving door of reoffende be clear . I be the parliamentary champion for the Rebuilding Futures Alliance — the RFA — whose mission be to break the cycle of reoffende by create smart pathway into work , often in rail . the evidence be extraordinarily compelling in show that employment reduce reoffende . I visit his Majesty ' s prison in Hatfield in my constituency — I have among the high number of prison in the whole country — and it be absolutely amazing . the governor there have be creative and innovative in his thinking about rehabilitate the prisoner , work with Tempus Novo . by bring that charity in , reoffende rate have reduce substantially , give people hope and a second chance . that be great for their family as well , which we need always to remember , and it make economic sense . do my hon . friend agree that the Government need to get behind those kind of initiative to stop reoffende ? that be another fantastic initiative . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . impressively , some of the partner agent and partner charity work with the RFA have achieve reoffende rate of under 5 % . I be tell at HMP Ranby that the most popular work with prisoner be for the rail industry , though sometimes a prison struggle to find long - term rail - relate work for prisoner . the RFA be work to help address that . that be particularly important in a sector such as rail , which really need more skilled worker and be anticipate to lose 90 , 000 worker by 2030 . the RFA have a tracking system that allow it to see how prisoner and placement progress . the Prison Reform Trust report that , for year , his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service " have not publish figure on the number of prisoner work in custody , due to the disruption to datum quality . " we need more datum and we need it to be track . the hon . Member make an important point about datum . a colleague of mine say that when they visit a prison they ask what the reoffende rate be and the governor could not answer because reoffende rate be not be track . do she agree that if prison have an incentive to watch their reoffende rate , they would be more keen to make sure that the rehabilitation programme make a difference and that they be not see the same face time and again ? the hon . Lady make an important point . that be one of the reason that the RFA have create its tracking system : to have tangible evidence of the efficacy of the work that we intuitively know must be successful in prevent reoffende . the business that I have meet that be utilise release on temporary licence scheme or have workshop in prison often act from a really strong ethic and a strong sense of social responsibility . there be also economic benefit and evidence — a clear business case — for provide work in prison . I thank the East Midlands Chamber for its work with business in this area . I be tell by their chief executive , Scott Knowles , that " those employer that can successfully navigate the administrative burden to employ prisoner or offer placement on temporary licence , frequently comment that these member of the team rapidly become their most productive team member . " a lot of the work take place in prison be not for the private sector at all . some 90 % of the work at HMP Ranby be for the public sector , in a range of thing include building bed , locker and furniture for use not just in other prison but in the wide public sector . that mean that it do not have to be buy in , provide significant saving to the public purse as a result . the success of scheme such as those that have be mention and those at HMP Ranby raise an important question : how can we scale up the model across more prison and employer ? the goal should be to reach a point where , upon release , prisoner can return to their community anywhere in the country and find employment that build on the skill that be develop inside . I completely agree that all the evidence point towards the need to invest in prison training and employment programme to reduce reoffende . do so be good for society and for the public purse , but do my hon . friend agree that we should reform the system to support short , more modular learning in our prison , in line with the Government ' s approach to the growth and skill levy ? Rochester prison in my constituency run a successful stonemasonry course , but the length of time it take — 18 month — make it difficult for prisoner to complete it , due to short sentence , prisoner move across the prison estate , and early release . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . have a range of option for people be really important , but she also make it clear that short sentence can prevent rehabilitative work be do , which be why it be so important that we be try to move to a presumption against short sentence . a range of thing can be do , and there need to be a co - ordinate effort to ensure consistency and opportunity across the prison estate . perhaps that could involve ask different Government Departments to look at the good and service that they procure from prison , to ensure that there be that option , or building on the brilliant work be do on procurement to ensure that employer who provide meaningful work opportunity to prisoner see the wide benefit , thereby reinforce the Government ' s commitment to rehabilitation and reduce reoffende . there be a popular myth that the poor the quality of a prison , the great the punishment , but that have be well test over the last 14 year . his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison suggest not only that purposeless prison be harmful for prisoner , but that that harm could extend to wide society . we can not isolate , bear or humiliate someone into be rehabilitate . it be far well that they be able to make amend through work . the idea that give more people — perhaps people who have never have it — access to good work might strengthen society come naturally to I as a Labour MP , because Labour be the party of work . without it , boredom , frustration and despair can thrive . work in prison benefit prisoner , yes , but it also work for those who risk their life and their safety as frontline prison officer and probation officer . it work for company , and not just because they be keen to do their part for society . it can help we to meet the skill challenge that industry face , to onshore manufacturing job , and to create more funding for victim through the Prisoners ' Earnings Act 1996 levy . job or jail ? if we truly want to break the cycle of crime , and give people in my constituency of Derby North and across the country the safety and opportunity that they deserve , this be how we begin . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) on secure this important debate , and on her fine speech . we have know each other for many year , and she be one of the good advocate I have come across , at the Bar and now in this place . she be a ferocious champion of justice and social justice , a credit to the people of Derby North , and an asset to our politic . it be particularly apt that she bring this vital issue to the fore , as it deserve far more attention , and while I be in this role , I be determined to ensure that it receive it . find employment after release be one of the most effective way to support rehabilitation and break the cycle of reoffende . the evidence be stark beyond argument that have a job reduce the likelihood of reoffende , and give that reoffende cost the taxpayer around £ 20 billion a year , get prisoner and prison leaver work be the right thing to do , not only for individual and community , but for the public purse . as my hon . friend have mention , we be debate the Sentencing Bill in Committee next week , and I hope that the whole House will support the Government ' s agenda of tackle reoffende through that legislation . work in prison be vital , because the argument for work in prison win both the heart and the head . it be about self - worth for the prisoner and worth for society as a whole . let we be clear : that must never mean offender bypass punishment for the pain that they have cause victim , but they should not be leave to wallow in prison . indeed , many have untapped potential that our economy desperately need , as my hon . friend set out . that be why the Government be commit to improve offender ' access to purposeful activity , and to strengthen the link between prison and employer , so that more people leave prison with the skill , qualification and opportunity that they need to succeed . I must at this point pay tribute to Lord Timpson for his work before he be make a Minister in the Justice Department . he continue to be a fine advocate for this cause . deliver skill and work experience to prisoner be not always straightforward . it be right that I draw the House ' s attention to a recent report from her Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Prisons and Ofsted , " just Passing Time " . it set out serious concern about the quantity and quality of work , and attendance at work , in prison . it be something that I and the Government take seriously . the problem be difficult , especially in the context of the prison capacity crisis that this Government inherit last summer , but that do not mean we should not strive to perform well . the report only motivate I and this government to do more . I want to look forward and set out positive measure that we be take to drive improvement in the short and long term . to understand the need of prisoner properly , his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service be now make sure that every prisoner have an individual learning and work plan during their sentencing , focus on their need , which might include numeracy and literacy . the hon . member for Colne Valley ( Paul Davies ) be a fine advocate on this issue ; he be do great work on it in a pilot project that apply across the country . we must ensure that qualification to improve inmate ' job prospect , as well as work experience and vocational training , be build into sentencing . simply put , these issue should be right at the heart of sentencing policy and sentencing at court . it be wonderful to hear the Minister lay out everything that the Government be do to address what be happen in our prison . I wonder whether he will give consideration to my amendment to the Sentencing Bill , which apply matter that be consider after sentence to prisoner who be on remand , so that they can have the same access to work and rehabilitation programme , rather than be release when it be time to be sentence because they have already serve their time , and then go home without any support . we will absolutely consider that amendment . I should congratulate she on her appointment to her role in the Liberal Democrats . that point be make in an intervention by my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) . although the remand population be too big , we must ensure that inmate on remand receive the service that they need . youth justice be also a key priority for I , and this issue also affect the youth estate . on a recent visit to Wetherby young offender institute , I observe brilliant work by teenage boy in what they call q branch work on allotment , help with the recycling , learn to make honey , and build a garden for the custody community . it be genuinely heartwarme and important work that these young offender be undertake as they reach maturity . my only disappointment come when I learn that only 5 % of the child in the young offender institute be able to access those facility . we must do more to make sure that every single offender who can do so safely have access to the skill and training that they need . early today , I be in Birmingham to see the brilliant social enterprise Skill Mill . I meet three 17 - year - old who be learn skill in construction , recycling and agriculture . those skill mean that they will have option when they reach the age of 18 that they would not have otherwise have . good work be happen . a good example on the adult estate be Greene King ' s academy at HMP Onley . what they call " the hideout " be a replica of a Greene King pub that give prisoner real - world experience in hospitality , City & Guilds qualification , and genuine job opportunity on release . Marston ' s Brewery have a similar set - up in the academy at the Lock Inn at HMP Liverpool , which equip prisoner with professional catering and kitchen management skill . in fact , I must make sure that I visit the Lock Inn as a matter of urgency ; I will tell my private office so . graduate from both scheme have already go directly into employment on release , so these initiative really be successful . we have the datum , but we need to improve it to ensure that the evidence base be there across the prison estate . the future skill programme deliver vocational training base on employer and labour market need and requirement . it offer a range of sector - specific skill training course , with a guarantee job interview on release . build on that , and to address HMIP concern about the intensity of the work experience , we be trialle a new Working Week project in five category c prison , include HMP Ranby , which I be aware that my hon . friend the Member for Derby North visit recently . it be just a few mile from my constituency . indeed , I drive past it on my commute to this place , and I will be visit it in the come month . I be just think to myself that there probably be stat that show that many prisoner , with great respect — this be not mean to be judgmental — may not be able to read or write . when it come to help they find job , we have to create confidence in they , and enable they to say , " I can do that . I can learn to read and write , and can then get a job . " that be a very basic thing , but it be important . maybe the Minister could tell we what will be do on that . that be not just about working skill ; it be about life skill , social skill and be able to connect with the person next to they . I completely agree , and it go back to the central argument that my hon . friend the Member for Derby North make about the innate value of work . Labour Members , and I be sure hon . member from across the House , believe that work be a good thing in and of itself . it be not just about earn a salary to pay the bill , though that be very important ; it be also about build life skill and have confidence , so that when someone leave prison , they can enter the world and be a well citizen , whereas too many leave as well criminal . that must be at the heart of what this government do , and it will be . in addition , release on temporary licence be an important rehabilitative tool that allow suitably risk - assess prisoner to engage in work with employer in the community . that provide people with the opportunity to build relationship with employer and boost their job prospect ahead of release . a good example of that be the work of Prisoners Building Homes at HMP North Sea Camp , where prisoner be train and employ to build modular , low - carbon , affordable home in partnership with housing provider , public sector body and third sector organisation . as part of the Justice Committee ' s inquiry on rehabilitation and resettlement , we receive evidence show that ROTL use have decline , particularly since covid ; it have not really recover from that . it be great to hear the good work the Minister be outline on this , but I urge he to continue to push for great use of ROTL , because it could be a key aspect of rehabilitation of offender go forward . absolutely . we will look at the evidence that the Select Committee receive , and we be have those conversation all the time . it be important to stress — I know my hon . friend be very aware of this — that in the first year of this Government , we have be deal with one of the most acute crisis across the public estate , and that have clearly take up the bandwidth of the Government and the Ministry of Justice . because of the difficult decision that the last Lord Chancellor make , we be now in a position where I hope we can do more on this . the Government have also launch regional employment council , which for the first time bring together business , prison , probation and the Department for Work and Pensions . we have extend apprenticeship across the prison estate , from the open to the closed estate . at HMP Highpoint , five cohort of prisoner be begin rail apprenticeship this year . this be a model we want to expand far , and early result be encouraging . to help build on this expansion , we have announce new foundation apprenticeship , which be available to prisoner . they be short course than traditional apprenticeship , and can be access by prisoner up to the age of 25 . it be a fine point make by my hon . friend the Member for Rochester and Strood ( Lauren Edwards ) about the length of course . clearly , too often prisoner be in and out for short period . we want to try to stop that fundamentally , or at least amend the framework in that regard , but we have to have training and service for those who be in prison for a short time . to support prisoner in consider their long - term goal , we be deliver well career advice and guidance in prison . from April this year , we be roll out new national career , information , advice and guidance contract , so that , again , every prisoner have access to consistent , high - quality career advice , tailor to their need and , critically , link to real job opportunity . take together , employment hub , employer partnership , vocational training , apprenticeship and the Working Week project represent initiative that be move in the right direction , but I want to be clear that we know that the situation be not good enough , and that there be a lot more work to be do . I once again thank my hon . friend the Member for Derby North for raise this important subject , which , as I say , do not get enough attention . I hope to do my bit to change that . this Government be commit to rehabilitation to help cut reoffende . I hope that she will agree that the Government have build solid foundation to stabilise the prison system after the inheritance we receive last summer , and have launch important initiative in our first year in office , but there be much more to do , and I welcome her support in drive forward this vital work in the month ahead . question put and agree to . House adjourn .