Speaker ' s Statement before we begin today ' s proceeding , I should like to express my sadness on behalf of the House at the death of two former member . Ronnie Campbell serve as Member for Blyth Valley from 1987 to 2019 . he be a kind and generous man , well like in all part of the House , and a powerful advocate for his constituent and his principle . there be also the tragic news of the death of Lord Cormack , who be a Member of this House for 40 year , from 1970 to 2010 . he be an eminent historian of Parliament , as well as editor and then president of the House magazine . they be two very different character who be unite by a strong duty to their constituent and a firm commitment to their principle . they each make their mark on this House in their own way and we will miss they very much . I be sure the thought of the whole House be with their family and friend . oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — Social Energy Tariff what recent assessment her Department have make of the potential merit of introduce a social energy tariff . what recent assessment her Department have make of the potential merit of introduce a social energy tariff . energy price be now at their low level for two year , with a typical bill set to drop by £ 238 by April . our cost of live package total over £ 104 billion , or £ 3 , 700 per household on average , over 2022 to 2025 . we be support those most in need , with million of vulnerable household receive up to £ 900 in cost of living payment . some of we believe in preventative spending . a House of Commons Library briefing last year estimate that the annual cost to the national health service of treat illness associate with live in cold or damp housing be £ 1 . 4 billion . when wide societal cost be consider , that figure rise to £ 15 . 4 billion . will the Secretary of State confirm whether the introduction of a social energy tariff would cost less than £ 15 . 4 billion ? a social tariff mean lot of thing to different people , but we be support vulnerable people with the cost of their energy bill . we support they last winter , pay on average a half of everybody ' s energy bill , and we have make additional payment of £ 900 to support people . since 2010 , we have increase the proportion of home that be energy - efficient and insulate to 50 % , up from 14 % . I call Chris Law — not here . on energy tariff , what assessment have the Secretary of State make of the merit of provide resident who be local to energy and nuclear plant with discount on their energy bill ? I thank my hon . friend for her doughty campaigning for nuclear — she be our very own atomic kitten . we be very positive about nuclear and have set out plan for the large expansion of nuclear for 70 year . overall that will be a good thing for people ' s energy bill and the energy security of this country . Fuel Poverty what estimate she have make of the number of household in fuel poverty in winter 2023 - 24 . what estimate she have make of the number of household in fuel poverty in winter 2023 - 24 . what step she be take to support household in fuel poverty during winter . what estimate she have make of the number of household in fuel poverty in winter 2023 - 24 . what estimate she have make of the number of household in fuel poverty in winter 2023 - 24 . fuel poverty be a devolved matter . the late figure , publish on 15 February 2024 , show that 3 . 17 million household be in fuel poverty in 2023 . the Government continue to deliver financial support to low - income home and vulnerable household through the warm home discount scheme and cost of living payment . as I be sure you be aware , Mr Speaker , the cost of living crisis be far from over for constituent in our area . the Government ' s late energy efficiency policy , the great british insulation scheme , be suppose to insulate 100 , 000 home a year , but so far just 3 , 000 family have be help in eight month , include only 35 home in Lancashire and just six in Blackburn . will the Minister explain why currently it will take 60 year to meet their three - year target ? energy efficiency be incredibly important to this Government and we have many scheme available . the great british insulation scheme alone have commit £ 592 million . I hear what the Minister say about the great british insulation scheme . it come after the green deal and the green home grant , but frankly it look like another failure . there be 1 . 4 million people live in South Yorkshire , but just 137 of their home have be upgrade under the GBIS . my constituent want their bill cut , emission reduce and their home insulate , but government incompetence be stand in the way . when will the Minister get a grip ? we be spend £ 6 billion in this Parliament and a furth £ 6 billion up to 2028 to make building , include private rent property , clean and warm . that be in addition to the estimate £ 5 billion that will be deliver for ECO4 — the energy company obligation — and the great british insulation scheme up to March 2026 . over the past two year , my constituent in Motherwell and Wishaw , as well as the disability group that I engage with , have tell I harrowing tale of dire fuel poverty and energy debt , while the energy giant post record profit . even with the new price cap , National Energy Action estimate that there will be 6 million UK household in fuel poverty , with energy debt sit at £ 6 billion . after April , the only support available will be the £ 150 warm home discount , which have barely be increase in a decade . when will the Government take meaningful action and finally consult on an energy social tariff ? last winter , this Government deliver £ 40 billion for household and business . we also have the warm home discount , the winter fuel payment and the disability cost of live payment . we be committed to ensure that affordability be top of our list in relation to energy security . we have have 14 year of fiasco after fiasco with energy save scheme from this Government . frankly , my constituent be feed up with it . in Gateshead , just seven home have be upgrade under the Government ' s late energy efficiency scheme . can the Minister say why this be such a disaster and why progress be so slow ? we continue to drive energy efficiency improvement for low - income and fuel - poor household , through scheme include the energy company obligation , the social housing decarbonisation scheme and the home upgrade grant . a recent report from the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit expose the Government ' s record on insulation and say that the Government ' s false claim about their success mostly involve take credit for scheme that be a legacy of the last Labour Government . a record low of around 80 , 000 measure be instal in total under the Government ' s programme in 2022 . be not the truth that this Government be fail million of people in fuel poverty ? this Government have provide unprecedented support for people in this country . I have regular meeting with stakeholder , charity and different organisation . undoubtedly , we be make sure that people have support through , as I have mention , the warm home discount , the energy price cap and lot of other payment , such as the cost of live payment of £ 900 per annum . talk of fuel poverty , the boiler tax result in consumer pay an extra £ 150 when they purchase a new boiler . do the Minister agree that it be now time to ditch these unworkable and unaffordable net zero policy and let the british people decide how to heat their home and what car to drive so that they can keep more of their own money ? no decision have yet be take on that , but we have a commitment to ensure that we get the very good deal for all our constituent . I call the shadow Minister . a year ago , the then Energy Secretary say that if supplier have wrongly instal prepayment meter in any home , they would have to recompense their customer for the way they have behave . one year later , can the Minister tell the House how many individual who have a prepayment meter wrongly instal have have compensation , how many be yet to receive it and , of those still wait , when they will get the compensation ? one thing on which we can all agree across the House be that it be absolutely abhorrent that people have prepayment meter force on they . we be work our way through the compensation , but I can assure Members that we be do everything we can to ensure that , when prepayment meter be instal , we be do exactly the right thing to make sure that everybody be keep safe . I ask the Minister three question but do not get an answer to any of they . perhaps she can put the figure in the House of Commons Library , because she clearly do not have a clue what they be . More than 3 million household be in debt to their energy supplier and almost 10 million household be live in cold , damp and poorly insulate home . the great british insulation scheme be prove to be a great Tory insulation fiasco . will the Minister tell I why the insulation scheme be prove to be such a disaster ? we have take great step to support people . for example , last winter we give unprecedented support to household and business . of course , debt be a major concern , and I have regular meeting with stakeholder to ensure that we be do the very good not only to get people out of debt , but to prevent they get into debt in the first place . New Nuclear what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on deliver new nuclear power station . what step she be take to increase nuclear energy capacity . what step she be take to increase nuclear energy capacity . what step she be take to increase nuclear energy capacity . the civil nuclear road map reconfirm the Government ' s ambition to deploy up to 24 GW of nuclear power by 2050 . it set out plan to make investment decision about 3 GW to 7 GW every five year between 2030 and 2044 . I thank the Minister for his answer . new nuclear hold the key not only to ensure energy security but to create thousand of high - skilled , well - pay job in the area where it be locate , but too often the planning process can take year , even on site where there be long - establish nuclear use . have he discuss with ministerial colleague what can be do to shorten that process significantly ? I can confirm that I have have those conversation , and the Government be explore the potential for reduce regulatory burden for the consenting and licensing of new nuclear power station without impact safety , security or environmental protection . we be also look to introduce a range of other streamline measure , include the action plan for reform , which set out reform to the nationally significant infrastructure project regime . will the Minister confirm that Nuclear Decommissioning Authority - own land adjacent to Sellafield will be make available for new nuclear ? more specifically , will enough land be make available to accommodate two 470 MW Rolls - Royce power station and their ancillary building and space ? I can confirm that Moorside be indeed a candidate for new nuclear , and it be one of a number of potential site for host civil nuclear project . great British Nuclear be currently run a competitive process to select those small modular reactor technology well able to facilitate operational project in the 2030 . that say , the project need to run its course , and I know my hon . friend will understand that no decision on site have yet be make . the UK ' s first nuclear fusion power plant be due to be build a short 45 - minute drive from Lincoln . it will increase energy generation and hopefully limit the amount of agricultural land be use to house solar farm . will my hon . friend update the House on the role that institution such as the University of Lincoln will have in provide research and training for these type of power plant and their associate advanced job of the future ? it be indeed a very exciting time for fusion in this country . our Fusion Futures programme will provide up to £ 55 million over five year to train more than 2 , 200 people , help meet the demand of our grow fusion sector . that will expand our exist fusion training programme through work with university such as the University of Lincoln , college and employer , and provide a pipeline of highly skilled scientist , engineer and technician at all career level , from apprentice to post - doctoral fellow . Berkeley have secure incredibly exciting investment in nuclear innovation with a consortium involve Rolls - Royce and the University of Bristol . a low - carbon energy park with international status at Berkeley and Oldbury , next door , go hand in hand as the Severn Edge project . the Government have a good opportunity to meet their energy security ambition and lead the way . will my hon . friend provide assurance that he will work with western Gateway on Severn Edge ? I hear he say that the competition have to run its course , but will the course be run ahead of the summer recess ? my hon . friend be tempt I . Oldbury be a candidate for new nuclear , and one of a number of potential site that could host civil nuclear project . it be exciting and encouraging to see the number of site and project come forward for investment . as I say , the competition have to run its course , and no decision on site have be make , but it be very encouraging to see such interest across the country in our great nuclear future . nuclear power plant come with a huge up - front capital cost . even small modular reactor have a considerable price tag , so it be important that the Government get their procurement right for once . do the Minister agree that smr offer possibility for economy of scale ? a large number could be commission at once , give potential saving to the taxpayer while deliver reliable baseload supply to the national grid . yes , of course I agree . that be one of the huge benefit , along with many other , of small modular reactor , which be why we be run our down selection programme , and support export from this country to across the world so that other country can join we on our nuclear journey , invest in small modular , advanced modular and gigawatt - scale project over the next few year . the delivery of nuclear power station for Northern Ireland be something that I would welcome , but other party in Northern Ireland might have concern about it . the one thing that we in Northern Ireland can all agree on be that , as part of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , we must be part of the manufacture base and procurement process . can the Minister confirm that the people of Northern Ireland will have that opportunity ? not only can I confirm that , but I put on record my support to all the company in Northern Ireland that be already integral to the supply chain for our nuclear sector . our nuclear revival not only will deliver a more secure , robust and clean energy baseload , but have the potential to create thousand of new manufacturing and supply chain job across the country , and I want that to impact positively on every corner of our United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I call the shadow Minister . contrary to propaganda from the conservative side , the last Labour Government hand over a detailed nuclear development plan that run up to 2025 , with 10 site identify for nuclear development , early discussion with nuclear developer , and a plan for a deep and secure nuclear repository . since then , over 14 year , not one electron of new nuclear power have be produce , Hinkley C be now at risk of further delay and no progress at all have be make on the establishment of a secure storage site for nuclear waste . what assurance can the Minister give that lesson have be learn from that frankly fairly lamentable stewardship of the previous plan , and that the late plan be set up to deliver ? I have never be accuse of propagandise before . it be a matter of pride on the conservative Benches that every single nuclear project that have ever be complete in this country have be complete under a Conservative Government — it do not look as though that be likely to change any time soon , despite the protestation and near - damascene conversion of Labour Front Benchers on nuclear over the past few year . we be carry on with our nuclear revival ; we have set out our nuclear road map ; and we be encouraging , enthuse and invest in our civil nuclear sector . I be very excited about the progress that we have make and what will take place in the sector over the next few year . use of Agricultural Land for Solar what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help ensure that land use for food production be not use for solar installation . the planning policy priority be the effective use of land by direct solar project to locate on previously develop low - grade land , and it be design to avoid , mitigate and , where necessary , compensate for impact on the good agricultural land . the Prime Minister be very clear that vast swathe of agricultural land would not be lose to solar on his watch , yet I be see thousand of acre across my constituency be build out or propose for solar — from Kimble Wick to Dinton , Ford to Beachampton , and more — include the late 2 , 100 acre abomination in the claydon know as Rosefield . good agricultural land that regularly produce wheat harvest of 10 tonne per hectare , for example , be often falsely grade as 3b because the reading be take from the headland , not the field . when will my hon . friend ensure that energy policy do not trump food security , and stop the mass proliferation of agricultural land be use for inefficient solar ? I understand the concern and frustration of my hon . friend and his constituent . that particular project be at the pre - application planning stage . the application be expect to be submit to the Planning Inspectorate between January and March 2025 . however , as I know he understand , owe to the quasi - judicial role of Ministers in determine application , it would not be appropriate for I to comment on any specific matter in relation to that project , but I can reassure he that all application be judge on their individual merit , and I encourage he and all his affected constituent to engage with the planning process at every stage as it continue . with all due respect to Conservative Members , who always represent the farming industry , as do we in the Liberal Democrats , farmer be not stupid . they will not take high - quality agricultural land out of production , and that be not happen , so I really worry about the argument be make here . we be far behind our renewable target for solar , so what incentive can the Government provide to get more , not less , UK solar off the ground ? I can reassure the hon . Lady that the solar taskforce will publish its recommendation imminently , and we have an ambitious target of deploy 70 GW of solar across the UK by 2035 . resident in Staffordshire Moorlands be very concerned about a number of planning application for solar farm and battery storage plant on farmland . they have a number of question , so can my hon . friend ensure that small district council have the appropriate expertise to look at those application ? can he make sure that proximity to the national grid be take into consideration , and that when there be a number of application relate to adjoining piece of land , those application be consider as a whole , rather than look at individually ? I thank my right hon . friend for her question , and reassure she that we take all those concern incredibly seriously . I be very happy to meet she and any other Member of Parliament who have concern about the plan be put forward in their constituency . as I have say , it be really important that everybody — from member of Parliament through to those in the community who be affect by or have concern about plan — can engage with the planning process at every stage . we will do what we can to address those concern while meet our ambitious target of deploy 70 GW of solar by 2035 . I be delighted to see you in your place , Mr Speaker . some people have short memory . bear in mind the difficulty that farmer be face , particularly those with rocky or infertile land , will the Minister have discussion with his colleague in the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs to ensure that some of that land be use in way that maximise the benefit to the farming community , as well as contribute to net zero ? I thank the hon . member for his question . I can assure he that we be already engage with the National Farmers Union ; indeed , it have be work with the solar taskforce to enable we to work with farmer and understand their concern . I be very happy to meet farming representative from all part of the United Kingdom to determine how we can well support they and reach our net zero objective by the date we have set ourselves . one of the argument put forward for a large solar farm on agricultural land in my constituency be that there be limited point of interconnection with the national grid for large solar farm developer wish to contract with it . could my hon . friend the Minister advise I on whether that be the case , and if it be , could he follow up on that , and advise all member of Parliament on where those limitation exist ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . obviously , I do not know the detail of the case he raise , but I be very happy to meet he follow question to look at it in more detail . despite what I say about the quasi - judicial role of Ministers in planning application , it be really important that all concern be address and look at , and that the planning application system be thorough , robust and transparent . on land use for food production and achieve net zero , have the Minister do an impact assessment of the rise carbon emission from the UK Government carry on with their agricultural policy , which be reduce incentive for farmer to produce food ? as a consequence , we will import more food . as thing stand , we produce only 60 % of the food we eat ; import more and more food will surely increase carbon emission . have the Minister look into that , and do an impact assessment of it ? at the National Farmers Union conference just last week , the Prime Minister reiterate this Government ' s commitment to support british farmer in their primary role of deliver food for the nation . it would be good to see the liberal Democrats give their support to british farmer in so forceful a manner . we be absolutely determined to do what we can to support british farmer in continue to deliver that food — and , indeed , to support the technology that we need to reach our net zero commitment , which I be lead to believe the Liberal Democrats still support . energy Standing Charges whether she have have discussion with energy provider on reduce energy standing charge for charity and business . the setting of tariff , include stand charge , in the non - domestic market be a commercial matter for supplier . the Secretary of State and I have meet supplier and Ofgem multiple time over the past year to urge they to support business and keep bill down , and Ofgem have recently call for input and view on stand charge . Mr Speaker , I associate myself with your early remark about the sad passing of my dear friend Ronnie Campbell , and indeed Lord Cormack . for month now , East Durham Trust in my constituency have be in dispute with its supplier , TotalEnergies , after TotalEnergies raise its standing charge from 40p a day to £ 20 a day — an increase of over 4 , 000 % . remarkably , after make complaint to the Department , Ofgem , Northern Powergrid and TotalEnergies , I find out just yesterday that TotalEnergies have agree to remotely reconfigure the meter in question . can the Minister explain why energy company and distributor do not seek to address customer issue soon , and do she agree that we have a fail regulator and an energy system that seek to maximise profit ? I be pleased to hear from the hon . Gentleman that the situation have be resolve , and I suggest that exactly the right recourse be to contact the relevant party . we be now launch the ability of the ombudsman to help small business as well , which reassure I that such case will be see to more quickly and resolve soon . I call the SNP spokesperson . in the UK , electricity standing charge will balloon by 12 % , mean that people in Scotland who be pay £ 90 a year in 2021 - 22 will soon need to find £ 216 a year — a 138 % increase under this Tory Government . that remove the incentive to curb excessive use , and present a disincentive to economise on energy usage . if cost and charge be redistribute to the unit price , consumer would be empower to pursue reduced usage , know that that would translate into low bill . what assessment have the Minister make of the saving that would be make , in term of both carbon emission and the need for vast piece of new energy infrastructure , if the standing charge be roll into unit price ? standing charge , as I mention , be a matter for Ofgem . however , Ofgem have listen to public sentiment , and it have recently launch a call for input on standing charge . my understanding be that to date , it have have over 40 , 000 response . the call for input close on 19 January , and Ofgem ' s paper aim to ensure a great understanding of how standing charge be apply to energy bill and what alternative should be consider . Green Technologies : private investment what step she be take to help increase private sector investment in green technology . what step she be take to help increase private sector investment in green technology . the UK have already make tremendous progress in secure investment in green technology ; recent figure indicate that there be £ 60 billion of investment in the UK in 2023 , mean that since 2010 , the UK have have £ 300 billion of public and private investment in low - carbon sector . since I take office in September , we have put in place new policy and sign deal with different country , and the investment have continue to flow , with plan for around £ 24 billion of new investment in low - carbon sector announce by the private sector . I thank my right hon . friend for that answer . Harmony Energy base in Knaresborough open Europe ' s large battery farm in Yorkshire in 2022 . it have raise the issue of connectivity challenge be a blockage to investment , so I welcome the connection action plan , which aim to cut connection time by up to 90 % . battery farm be critical for energy retention and storage , and be particularly helpful for renewable , so may I ask my right hon . friend for an update on how the plan be be implement ? we have set out the most radical reform to the grid since the 1950 . as the action plan set out , we be take action with Ofgem and network company to accelerate those really important network connection . network company be offer early connection to battery storage and generation project . for example , 10 GW of battery storage project be already be offer connection date to the transmission network that be on average four year early than be originally agree . the UK ' s ceramics sector have invest heavily in energy efficiency technology , and it be commit to go far , but many of the alternative green technology be not yet viable , and there be serious risk that too stringent net zero target will result in carbon leakage , and in offshore an industry and skilled job to country that have a far bad environmental record . will my right hon . friend look seriously at exempt the ceramics sector from the emission trading scheme , to give the sector the breathing space that it need to invest ? I commend my hon . friend ' s unwavere commitment to advocate for the ceramics sector in his constituency . the UK Government remain steadfast in safeguard sector deem at risk of carbon leakage , and I strongly encourage the ceramics sector in his constituency to actively participate in the consultation on free allocation policy , which be open . a new report from the Green Finance Institute and the Institute for Public Policy Research note that a lack of public investment and strategy be hold back progress on unlock private investment , and that the chopping and changing of policy pathway have damage investor confidence . the Secretary of State like to say that she have a clear strategy , so will she tell investor what it be ? will she call on the Chancellor to deliver the scale of public investment that we so urgently need to restore investor confidence and lift the UK off the bottom of the G7 league table for private investment , where we currently languish ? I thank the hon . Lady for that question , but I be surprised that she do not welcome the recent news that the UK be the first country in the G20 to halve its emission since the 1990 , as I know that subject be dear to her heart . as I have say , in 2023 , the UK see around £ 60 billion of low - carbon private and public investment . we get that extraordinary success by encourage private investment . whether through the contract for difference scheme , our new policy on capital allowance , or the effect of the green industry growth accelerator on the supply chain , the UK be do everything it can to attract investment , and that be exactly why we have make those achievement . last week , the Scottish Government announce £ 24 . 5 million of public investment in a new cable factory , which will attract a furth £ 350 million of inward investment . do the Secretary of State agree that the good way to increase private investment be for the Government to increase public investment , to signal that the UK be open to green investment ? should not the UK Government therefore invest at least £ 28 billion a year , so that we can maximise private investment , and so that economic growth from the green transition be also maximise ? as I say , our record on net zero investment be incredibly strong . in fact , I believe the CBI have a report out this morning show that our net zero sector have be grow by 9 % in the last year . we have set out plan for further investment , whether that be in grid connection , supply chain investment through our Gigafund , or reform capital allowance . all those thing , and not public sector investment alone , attract private investment to this country . I call the shadow Minister . this Government be lock in a doom loop of inertia , and everyone be talk about it . just this week , the National Infrastructure Commission say that the Government be take too long , need to move fast , and that great urgency be require . the CBI report that the Secretary of State mention say that " strong future growth from green business be be put at risk " . labour ' s national wealth fund will crowd in private investment and create thousand of good job for plumber , engineer , electrician and welder . be blow our advantage and lose the race for the industry of the future part of the Government ' s plan , or do they just not have one ? I thank the hon . Lady for have the chutzpah to attempt that question . if she would like to talk about uncertainty on investment plan , she need only look at those on the Benches behind she , who have perform the most extraordinary flip - flop on that . we have deliver the second high cumulative amount of record low - carbon investment across Europe over the past five year . high - carbon Advertising if she will meet representative of Adfree Cities to discuss high - carbon advertising . the Advertising Standards Authority be responsible for regulate advertising in the UK across traditional form of medium , and it take environmental issue seriously . I encourage the hon . gentleman to approach the ASA directly with that request , as it operate independently of Government . I call Barry Sheerman . thank you for wake I up , Mr Speaker . the Adfree Cities campaign be very significant . Most of we have see flash coloured screen proliferate in our town and city , and much more densely in other country , such as France and Germany . not only do these screen use a lot of energy and electricity , but they be very invasive of people ' s dwelling . can we be very careful about the proliferation of those screen ? as I say , the ASA would be the key people to go to . company in the sector be , and should be , mindful of their net zero obligation . they be look into make commitment to source all their electricity from renewable source , which be a solid thing to do , as well as use digital technology to minimise energy usage . the Net Zero Council be produce road map for all industry sector across the economy , to encourage business to do everything they can to minimise their environmental impact . petrol price what step she be take to help reduce the price of fuel at petrol station . last week , we launch a consultation , close on 12 March , on require petrol station to report a change in price within 30 minute . Pumpwatch will enable driver to make informed decision on where to buy fuel and will reignite competition . I thank the Minister for her answer , but my constituent in Stafford remain concerned about the price of fuel , particularly give the pressure on their household budget . I welcome the fact that the price of a tank of fuel be low than it be when price be at their peak , but what be she do to ensure that my constituent get the good price for their fuel ? we be committed to make sure that consumer get a fair deal . that be why fuel retailer must remain transparent and not overcharge driver . the Pumpwatch consultation will require all petrol station to report price within 30 minute of their change . that will enable tech company to develop new way for UK driver to search for the cheap fuel . in rural community across Devon , people feel the pressure of high fuel cost . the cost of fuel in town such as Honiton be almost 20p a litre high than at petrol station just 30 mile away . what step will the Government take to ensure fairness , and to introduce rural fuel duty relief of the sort that we already have in some part of north Devon ? Pumpwatch will help with those thing , but it be unacceptable for any fuel retailer to overcharge driver . that be why the Secretary of State hold a roundtable in December with fuel retailer to make it clear that we expect they to pass on saving to consumer when price fall . Home Energy Efficiency what recent step she have take to help improve the energy efficiency of home . I pay tribute to the hon . member for her committed work to support her constituent live in rural area . we have a proud record of energy efficiency . we be encouraging , rather than force , people to make the right choice , and we push back the ban on gas boiler while increase the boiler upgrade scheme to £ 7 , 500 , which be one of the most generous grant in Europe . there be 1 , 858 list property in North Shropshire , accord to the Listed Property Owners Club , and 24 conservation area across our historical market town and village . that mean that there be a large number of building that owner find it difficult to upgrade to make they energy - efficient . what conversation have the Minister have with her colleague in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport on enable people to bring those home into the 21st century and make they energy - efficient ? the hon . Member make a good point . we have those consultation across Departments , and local authority in rural area in England be eligible for grant . I can give my assurance that we have those cross - government meeting . many off - grid home across Cornwall can not convert to energy - efficient heating scheme without incur huge cost . one option for they be to use hydro - treat vegetable oil . can the Minister lie out what plan the Government have to support those use renewable liquid heating fuel , and will she back the campaign by our excellent candidate for Camborne and Redruth , Connor Donnithorne , to axe the tax on hvo ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that point . we have begin develop a consultation on the role of renewable liquid fuel in heat . we expect Department for Energy Security and Net Zero Ministers to receive detailed information on the shape of the consultation in the come week , and aim to publish in the summer of 2024 . Electricity Market Review when she plan to publish the second consultation on the review of electricity market arrangement . the Government plan to publish the second consultation imminently . it will set out a clear direction on how the GB electricity market arrangement will evolve to keep electricity bill as low as possible for consumer of all type . there be two question that my constituent ask I most frequently : when will we see cheap electricity from renewable , and when people in area such as mine , which host a lot of renewable production , benefit from cheap price , as a result of host that infrastructure ? the Government be move on from our appalling inheritance in 2010 of less than 7 % of our electricity come from renewable , with that figure today up to well over 40 % . every day we add to that , we displace gas and other fossil fuel and low bill for people , and we plan to keep that go . we already have solar , onshore wind and other developer provide benefit to consumer , and we will come forward with plan for those host — order . I call Sir George Howarth . People who be consider change their boiler struggle to find accurate information about the benefit and the cost . will the Minister consider issue new guidance that make clear both the cost and the benefit of switch to a heat pump ? it can be a complex matter . that be why the Government have commit to look at rebalance the system cost across electricity and gas , as well as to ensure that people can benefit , as I do , from a heat pump , which provide a warm home and low bill . energy cost what step her Department be take to help reduce energy cost for household . what step she be take to provide support with energy bill . Ofgem ' s new price cap mean that from April , the average bill be set to drop by £ 238 . this show that our plan be work : we have halve inflation and energy price be at their low level in two year . alongside that , we have take the number of home that be well insulate up from 14 % in 2010 to 50 % now . we have recently set out plan to help more customer access smart energy tariff , which could save they up to £ 900 a year . I be grateful for the answer , but one thing my constituent in Stirling do not understand be electricity standing charge . as we have hear , accord to Ofgem ' s figure , they have rocket by 138 % from £ 90 . 84 in 2021 - 22 to £ 216 . 23 in 2023 - 24 . Ofgem have issue a call for evidence , which be to be welcome , but Ofgem be clearly not fit for purpose on this . do the Secretary of State agree that it be high time the UK Government step in ? the hon . Gentleman be right that Ofgem regulate stand charge and have issue a call for evidence . I think about 40 , 000 people have give input , and we look forward to see the result . however , if he be really worried about the cost of live for family in the country , the SNP would not have take taxis in Scotland to the high level in the UK . the fall in the energy price cap be certainly welcome by Carshalton and Wallington resident , as be the support for household , but many small and medium - sized business in my constituency be still struggle to absorb high cost . will the Secretary of State outline in a bit more detail the support that those business can access to help with energy bill ? I thank my hon . friend for recently welcome I to Carshalton and Wallington . wholesale energy price have fall significantly since last winter , but we be commit to support business with their energy bill . last winter alone , we deliver about £ 7 . 4 billion to support business , cover nearly half of many business ' wholesale energy cost . we be continue the energy bill discount scheme to support eligible business with high energy cost until they can take advantage of low wholesale price . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . a lot have happen since I be last at the Dispatch Box . not only have energy bill fall to their low level in two year — welcome news for family up and down the country — but Britain have become the first major economy to halve our emission , which be a huge milestone on our journey to net zero , our Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill have complete its Commons stage , and we be support the North sea by protect 200 , 000 job and use our own gas to heat our home . I have sign a new partnership with Canada on fusion energy , which be a technology that could give we limitless energy and one on which Britain be lead the world . we have confirm the UK ' s departure from the energy charter treaty , which be hold back our transition to clean , cheap energy . we have launch a consultation on smart energy tariff , which could see £ 900 take off people ' s bill , and today we host our hydrogen investor forum , announce eight successful project to make low - carbon hydrogen , with over £ 27 million of Government support . resident in Esclusham in my constituency be alarm by Innova ' s plan for the UK ' s large lithium - ion battery storage facility near Bersham . can my right hon . friend give any reassurance about the safety of this technology to my constituent , who be concerned about the danger of pollution , give the noise emit by such equipment , and by report of similar facility elsewhere explode , catch fire and emit toxic fume ? electricity storage allow we to use energy more flexibly and to minimise energy bill . grid - scale lithium - ion battery energy storage system be cover by a robust regulatory framework that be principally over - see by the Health and Safety Executive . plan guidance encourage developer and local authority to consult relevant fire and rescue service on aspect such as location , ahead of any planning decision be make . I call the SNP spokesperson . some 23 % of household in Scotland be live in extreme fuel poverty . energy debt across the United Kingdom have reach £ 3 . 1 billion . Age UK estimate that , have the UK Government implement a social tariff this winter , 2 . 2 million household would have be lift out of poverty . the late cost of unpayable energy debt have once again be heap on to ordinary taxpayer by Ofgem through the unit rate . what assessment have the Secretary of State make of how much energy debt could be reduce by through the introduction of a social tariff to mitigate totally unaffordable energy bill ? the fact that energy price be at the low level in two year be good news for family up and down the country . we have put in place support , include a package of more than £ 104 billion to support family — that be £ 3 , 700 per household on average . as part of that , we have make £ 900 cost of live payment to help people in the last year . energy be a vital purchase for the hospitality sector , and can make up a large part of the overall cost . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that the energy cost face by pub , hotel and food business do not put they out of business ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question . wholesale energy price have fall compare with last year . the Government have be support eligible business lock into high contract through the energy bill discount scheme , until they can take advantage of low fix - price rate . my hon . friend will be interested to hear that the Government deliver more than £ 7 . 4 billion to non - domestic energy user last winter , cover around half of many business ' energy bill . I call the shadow Secretary of State . last September , the Energy Secretary claim she be lift the onshore wind ban , but in the whole of 2023 and so far in 2024 there have be zero application for new onshore wind farm design for domestic electricity supply in England . she say that her decision would speed up the delivery of project . why do she think it have not work ? let I be clear about our record on onshore wind . energy production have quadruple since 2010 , when we have 3 . 9 GW of onshore wind , to 15 . 4 GW in 2023 . we have connect the second high amount of renewable anywhere in Europe , whereas the right hon . Gentleman ' s plan have be widely discredit by industry and would deter billion of pound of investment in clean energy . the right hon . Lady do not answer the question . I will tell she why it have not work : because she have leave a uniquely restrictive planning regime in place for onshore wind . her failure be cost family across this country £ 180 a year on their bill . we know that her policy have fail . she could dump the ban at the stroke of a pen . if she be vaguely serious about clean energy , why do she not face down the headbanger on her Back Benches and lift the ban ? as I say , we have connect the second high amount of renewable electricity anywhere in Europe since 2010 . our record on renewable energy be clear . this be the most extraordinary deflection that I have see . in recent week , the right hon . Gentleman ' s leader have shred his policy platform on energy . to be honest , I feel quite sorry for he , because thank to the action of his leader and his shadow Chancellor , he have be hide away , his policy have be rip up and it be now obvious to everyone that Labour have no plan for energy . far to the question by my hon . friend the Member for South West Bedfordshire ( Andrew Selous ) about the review of electricity market arrangement , I welcome the fact that we be , at last , get to grip with the clunky old rule that add potentially hundred of pound to everyone ' s energy bill . may I urge the Minister to go fast ? this be chug along at whitehall speed , and we need urgent action to reduce energy bill soon . I thank my hon . friend for his continue interest in this issue . the REMA programme be consider a number of option , include send more efficient locational signal , which I know he be very knowledgeable about , zonal pricing , reform to transmission charging and change to network access . the second round of the consultation be imminent . this government ' s treatment of miner , retire miner and their widow be nothing short of a national scandal . since 2021 , the Government have be sit on the recommendation of the Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee report , which recommend review the mineworker ' pension scheme ' s surplus sharing arrangement in favour of miner and their widow . during that time , thousand of miner have sadly pass away through the legacy of industrial disease , while the Government have pocket £ 4 . 8 billion of the miner ' own money since 1994 . when be the Government go to do the right thing and return the miner ' money ? the Government be do the right thing , have do the right thing and will continue to do the right thing in come to a fair settlement between miner , the Government and the taxpayer . that be what we will continue to do , and I be happy to meet the hon . gentleman to discuss it far . early this month , the all - party parliamentary group on infrastructure , which I chair , launch a joint report with the Institution of Civil Engineers on the public behavioural change need to achieve our net zero target . I have send my right hon . friend a copy of the report . as part of its production , we carry out market research , which highlight public uncertainty on where to go for accurate information to help people make the choice require to decarbonise their life . what be the Department do to help fill that information gap ? of course , my hon . friend have a highly distinguished history in the marketing industry . we agree that it be important that the public get the information they need to save money on their bill , as we set out in the net zero growth plan . that be why last autumn we relaunche the " it all add up " campaign , which help british household save an estimate £ 120 million last winter . whether it be elf on the shelf or other such route , we will find way to well communicate with the public , precisely to allow they to be well informed in do their bit for net zero . the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for Derby North ( Amanda Solloway ) speak about the Government ' s approach to differential fuel price in different town . motorist in Chesterfield remain mystified as to why major supermarket be charge they more than they charge customer just a few mile up the road in Sheffield . it be clear that the Government ' s approach be not work . when I write to the major supermarket , they admit that they charge Chesterfield customer more . there be no reason why customer in Chesterfield should be charge more than customer in Sheffield , so will the Minister tell we what she be do about that ? I could not agree more that we should not be pay different price at different petrol station . that be one of the reason why we have launch a consultation on Pumpwatch , and why we have very regular meeting with the supplier to make sure that they be not do this . they should not be do it and we be very clear about that . offshore Energies UK ' s industry manifesto highlight the once - in - a - lifetime opportunity that a home - grow energy transition provide to bring investment and job to community all around the UK . this require close collaboration between the private and public sector . can Ministers confirm that the Government be absolutely committed to such a partnership ? I can . what the sector do not need , of course , as OEUK have itself set out , be the ten of thousand of job loss that would be drive by the ideological and climate - damage obsession of the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) with end new UK oil and gas licensing . the last publish Government estimate for Sizewell C be £ 20 billion , but Hinkley Point C , the suppose prototype for Sizewell C , be now estimate to cost £ 48 billion . when will the Government admit that the actual cost of Sizewell C will be a colossal £ 50 billion noose around bill payer ' neck ? the SNP , blind by a misplaced belief in its own exceptionalism , seem almost alone in the world in not recognise the benefit of new nuclear when it come to meet our net zero objective , deliver our energy security and improve our baseload . at last year ' s COP , 30 country around the world come together to commit to increase nuclear - generate capacity by 30 % . it would be brilliant if Scotland could be part of that change , but the SNP and its luddite partner in the Green party be hold Scotland back . we be determined not to do that for the rest of the UK . plan for a new incinerator in Wisbech be strongly oppose by my constituent and those of my right hon . friend the Members for North West Cambridgeshire ( Shailesh Vara ) and for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) . with 300 lorry trip a day and a structure big than Ely cathedral , there would be serious health and environmental concern for the near school . will my right hon . friend the Secretary of State visit the site to see for herself why the plan be wholly inappropriate ? the Secretary of State will be happy to engage with my hon . friend , and I too would be delighted to visit the site to look into the issue that he have raise . at last we have hear the excellent news from Stellantis that it be to build electric van at Luton ' s Vauxhall plant from 2025 , as a result of the tireless effort of both management and workforce in pursuit of efficiency and quality . what plan have the Government to invest in electric vehicle charge infrastructure to help to stimulate the ev consumer market ? the hon . Lady be right to salute the astonishing investment that we be see throughout the automotive sector , and I be delighted that the Government have be able to help to bring they about . as she know , we be commit to spread more and more charging across the United Kingdom , not least in motorway service area , so that we have the infrastructure to facilitate the decarbonisation of transport alongside all our other emitter . early this month we welcome the Prime Minister to A & P Falmouth to meet its workforce and talk about its fantastic submission for funding under the float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme to enable the port of Falmouth to support the emerge float offshore wind sector in the Celtic sea . can the Minister reassure my constituent that the Government be look at all the application with a scrutinise eye to ensure that the supply chain can be build up throughout the south - west ? I can indeed confirm that the supply chain and the manufacture job that will be create through our investment in float offshore wind will benefit every community in the United Kingdom . no decision have yet be make on FLOWMIS , but one will be make imminently . government statistic release last week show that 469 , 000 low - income household in the north - west live in energy - inefficient property . hundred of household in the Fishwick area of Preston be still struggle with cold , damp home after the fail installation of insulation more than a decade ago . will the Minister commit his Department to future fuel poverty scheme that will prioritise the fixing of past mistake , as well as renew support for good insulation to be fit in old terrace property around the country ? the Government be already commit to ensure that household have the necessary energy efficiency . we have introduce the social housing decarbonisation boiler upgrade scheme , the home upgrade grant and many other initiative , and we be of course help all our constituent with affordability . we have make huge progress in decarbonise our electricity sector , but decarbonise transport and heat be much more tricky . will the Minister encourage our plan in Copeland to harness any power that can be obtain from new nuclear for that purpose , and will he meet we so that we can discuss those plan ? I should , as ever , be delighted to meet my hon . friend , and very happy to discuss the opportunity that be open up for her community and other throughout the United Kingdom . indeed , I have visit her constituency and observe for myself the huge enthusiasm for new nuclear , as well as the additional benefit that it can bring to the wide energy sector . the potential loss of 2 , 800 job at Tata Steel in Port Talbot be devastating for worker and their family , with possible knock - on effect for Trostre in Llanelli . as well as invest in the electric arc furnace , will the Government commit themselves to primary green steelmaking in the UK to preserve our security and our job ? the hon . Lady should , alongside we , celebrate the £ 500 million that the Government be contribute as part of an overall £ 1 . 25 billion investment in the modernisation of steel production at Port Talbot through , for instance , the electric arc furnace . government and industry will also invest £ 100 million in skill to ensure that there be thousand of job for the future , and that we reduce emission as well . will my hon . friend reaffirm the Government ' s commitment to develop four operational ccus cluster , include Acorn in my constituency , by the end of the decade ? will my colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero make representation to his Majesty ' s Treasury to bring forward the financial investment decision at the soon opportunity ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , and he be absolutely right : CCUS have such an important role , and we be commit to those four cluster . as we announce in March last year , we have deliver £ 20 billion of investment to make sure that we carry on with the transformation and decarbonisation of this country that be so woefully lacking when we take power in 2010 . last week the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , share a platform with an extremist , far - right , climate change - deny conspiracy theorist call Steve Bannon , who claim that man - make global warming be a " manufactured crisis " . will the Secretary of State condemn those crazy comment and perhaps distance herself from the former Prime Minister ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . what he should look at carefully be that the UK be the first country in the G20 to halve emission . if he want to look at our record , he should look at that . it be absolutely extraordinary that no one on the Opposition Benches have welcome that news today . National Grid ' s Grimsby to Walpole project will see pylon drive across Lincolnshire ' s beautiful landscape and will take major chunk of some of this country ' s good agricultural land out of production . do the Secretary of State agree that it be vital that resident respond to the consultation that be currently go on , and that National Grid should be tell to take into consideration food security as well as energy security when it consider such application ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . as he will know , I can not comment on a specific proposal . we need to rewire this country in order to have homegrown energy . that mean host new infrastructure , with the presumption that it be above ground and do in a way that minimise negative impact on food security , which I be confident that any proposal that come forward will do . let we make no mistake : we must rewire this country . we must power the UK more from this country , clean up our energy and reduce our dependence on foreign fossil fuel . every single winter , the village of Altnaharra in Sutherland be the cold community in the whole of the United Kingdom . some part of the United Kingdom be cold than other — that be geography . may I ask that this fact be take into consideration when the Government look at scheme to help people with the cost of pay their electricity bill ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . as he will know , the Government deliver over £ 40 billion in support last winter . we expect the warm home discount to support around 3 million household this winter , with the final figure to be publish later . since 2011 , the warm home discount have deliver over £ 3 . 5 billion in support for eligible low - income household . I welcome the news that Ofgem have put the price cap down by 12 % , which represent a discount of about £ 20 for every average home . there be one problem , though : the standing charge be still relatively high . I know there be an open consultation , but would the Government consider transparency about the stand charge on bill so that the public understand exactly what it do ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . clearly , it be vital that we have the call for input on the standing charge , and we await with anticipation how we will react to the over 40 , 000 response that we have have so far . I have recently be inundate with correspondence follow the collapse of SSB Law , a legal firm that take thousand of defective cavity wall insulation case to court . it have leave constituent with ten of thousand of pound in cost that they can not afford during an unprecedented cost of living crisis . can the Minister assure I that the Government have a plan to address this scandal ? what compensation will my constituent be offer to remove faulty cavity wall insulation so that they can finally be free of its devastating consequence ? it be always awful to hear of these case . I will write to the hon . gentleman on the issue . Ukraine : Military Equipment ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on international supply of military equipment and ammunition to Ukraine . the UK have be lead international support for the armed force of Ukraine for 10 year since Russia first invade Crimea in 2014 , train more than 60 , 000 new recruit since 2015 and commit almost £ 12 billion in economic , humanitarian and military aid since 2022 . from the UK - found , UK - administer international fund for Ukraine , which have pledge more than £ 900 million , to spearheading capability coalition , our effort have pave the way and make a genuine difference . our nlaw anti - tank missile and our Javelins help brave Ukrainians to devastate Putin ' s menace 40 - mile armoured convoy , which be head for Kyiv . we be the first to send main battle tank with our Challenger squadron , plus 500 armoured vehicle and 15 , 000 anti - armour weapon . last week the Defence Secretary announce to this House a new package of 200 Brimstone anti - tank missile , plus £ 245 million for artillery munition . the UK will also co - lead an international capability coalition , alongside Latvia , to supply cutting - edge drone to Ukraine , in addition to the UK ' s co - leadership of the international maritime capability coalition . the Defence Secretary have urge partner and ally to commit to long - term support for Ukraine . at the NATO Defence Ministers ' meeting on 15 February , the Defence Secretary and his counterpart from 14 NATO ally and Sweden sign an agreement on two new multinational procurement initiative focus on munition and missile . spearhead by the UK , these initiative aim to increase defence industrial capacity across the Euro - Atlantic area , replenish stockpile at pace and continue support to Ukraine . I commend the Government for their impressive record , but do the Minister accept that the equipment pledge by NATO nation be not reach Ukraine in anything like the amount promise ? do he accept , for example , that less than a third of the 1 million shell promise by EU nation have arrive , that more than 300 artillery barrel will reach the end of their productive life this year , that very few pilot be be train and that the Ukrainians be perilously short of air defence ? this be at a time when the Russians be on a war footing , with 40 % of all their government spending gear towards the destruction of the ukrainian state . specifically , may I ask whether Defence Intelligence and the Government reckon that the Ukrainians will be able to hold their current position , and if so , for how long ? when will artillery stock run even lower and fall off a cliff edge ? will the Minister confirm that we have deliver on all our pledge ? I be in east Ukraine last week . do he understand that , after the obliteration of the frontline town of Avdiivka , the Ukrainians be now ask which of their town will be the next to be destroy by russian artillery , while ukrainian soldier die because they lack kit ? finally , do he accept that the situation be become acutely dangerous for everybody , with the force of fascism begin to overpower free state and their NATO ally ? where do he believe we might be with security throughout Europe in the next few month ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend and I pay tribute to he and all parliamentarian who have visit Ukraine and show our solidarity and support for our ally . I know that he have a background as an officer in the Intelligence Corps , so he speak not only with the passion we all share but with significant expertise on these matter . he will therefore be aware that there be a limit to what I can say on the operational situation and be draw into try to estimate the level of supply . these be all sensitive and important point . I think we can all agree that what my hon . Friend say about air support and training be important . I be at RAF Valley recently and , as I understand it , we be provide 26 Ukrainians with elementary fly training . we be fly the F - 16 and we have Typhoon F - 35s , while other country will be provide the actual platform . he be absolutely right to say that air defence be a critical part of the conflict and we need to supply more . we have provide over 1 , 000 air defence system but we want to do more . on the overall position , as I have say , we can not provide a running commentary on the exact operational situation , but we provide regular tweet share what intelligence we can . fundamentally , my hon . friend be right to warn all of we , and indeed our ally , of the risk , be the situation to be reverse . we can say with some certainty that when the war start , we would all have be surprised to be in this situation with Ukraine have win back so much territory and , frankly , remain in the fight . that be thank in a huge part to the role of the United Kingdom , and we should be proud of that . as the Secretary of State confirm in his recent oral statement , we provide nlaw before Russia invade and have be train Ukrainians since 2014 — 60 , 000 in total — but I know there be more to do . my hon . friend have a very good understanding of these matter . these capability coalition — one on drone and the other on maritime — be a good way to turn the support that have be provide into targeted and effective capability on the frontline . we be clear that we need to do more , and our ally need to stay with we in the fight . I call the shadow Minister . as we mark two year since Vladimir Putin ' s brutal , illegal invasion begin , it should be a source of pride to all in this House that the UK remain totally united and commit to support Ukraine . we must continue to stand with the ukrainian people for as long as it take for they to win . on military help for Ukraine and on reinforce our NATO ally , the UK Government have have , and will continue to have , Labour ' s full support . at yesterday ' s opening of the Paris summit , to shore up support for Ukraine , western leader rightly make it clear that Russia be far from a spend force and that Putin will not stop at Ukraine if he win . as Russia step up its war effort , we must step up our support , and so must Ukraine ' s other ally . labour welcome the 200 extra Brimstone anti - tank missile and the £ 245 million artillery munition package for Ukraine , which the Government announce this weekend . minister favour ad hoc announcement over a full military aid plan for Ukraine , but how can industry invest and mobilise with confidence without a long - term plan to work against ? on step up western support for Ukraine , how be we co - ordinating with our NATO ally to ensure that our munition support provide Ukraine with the urgent and sustained help it need ? of the £ 2 . 5 billion announce for 2024 , can the Minister confirm how much be be spend on Ukraine and how much be be spend on UK operational cost at NATO basis ? give the importance of the Paris summit for Ukraine , why be the Prime Minister unable to attend the event , unlike other key western leader ? there could be a change in Government this year , but there will be no change in Britain ' s resolve to stand with Ukraine , to confront russian aggression and to pursue Putin for his war crime . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for continue to show solidarity , for the consensus that exist across the House and , in particular , for specifically mention the Brimstone gift and the £ 245 million recently announce for artillery munition . the hon . Gentleman talk about our long - term plan . just to be clear , the war be happen today and the key focus of the £ 2 . 5 billion for Ukraine this financial year be get support into the country as soon as possible , which be when they need it . of course , we want to have a long - term plan too . I be clear that the UK will play a very significant role in help Ukraine , when it be fully free , to get back to the level of prosperity it expect . for now , we have to focus on what be a very challenging situation . drone be one of the most important capability we have see in Ukraine , and they have arguably transform the nature of warfare in this conflict . last week I be pleased to announce our own uncrewed strategy and , in do so , I talk about the Malloy t150 drone , which have do an incredible job , lift blood , munition and other key supply to ukrainian marine on the bank of the Dnieper . we have provide 4 , 000 drone to Ukraine , and we will keep do that — we have the £ 200 million . yes , it be about shell and munition , but we also have to provide a way to fight with they ; we have to assist to ensure that we deliver that capability , which be why those coalition be so important . I be glad that the hon . Gentleman support we in the round , and we be send a message that this House be unite in support Ukraine . I call the Father of the House . the Minister say the training start in 2014 , which be the year after the House take , in my view , the wrong decision in the Syria vote ; it lead to Russia give help to Assad , the taking of Crimea , the infiltration of eastern Ukraine and various other problem . as Ukraine ' s security be , in effect , our security and that of our NATO ally , will he confirm that we will do all we can to try to make sure that Ukraine be safe and that Russia , at some stage , return to be a peaceful nation devote to the prosperity of its own people , rather than do down other people ? my hon . friend make an excellent point and he be absolutely right to say that their security be our security . we need to support Ukraine , because it be morally the right thing to do to support a free country that have be illegally invade . we should also be clear that it be in our strategic interest and those of all of our democratic ally to do so , because we do not want to see an emboldened Russia , not least because of the impact that could have on other potential adversary . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . Ukraine be on the frontline , not only of its own battle , but of those of international democracy and law . we can not leave the Ukrainians without in a time of need . their fight be our fight , so let we look at what the UK Government can do . we must not allow Putin ' s plan to wait until the international community lose interest to succeed . will the UK Government prepare an International Criminal Court case against Russia for its bombardment of civilian in Ukraine ? what more can the UK Government do to ensure the safety of ukrainian sky , and to ensure a united and collective western effort in continued support of Ukraine ? once again , I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s support and that of the SNP in ensure that we have this strong consensus across the House in support of the Ukrainians . as he say , their fight be our fight — I strongly agree . he be also right about the ICC . as for where the Ministry of Defence be focus , he make an important point about the threat in the air . as I say , air defence have be crucial , but of course that fight take many form ; we need to look at not only ground - to - air system , but drone , which have proliferate and have an extraordinary impact . we know that we can not provide the F - 16 , which be the Ukrainians ' fighter of choice , but we have do what we can by provide the elementary fly training and I absolutely assure he that we will do everything we can . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I welcome all that the Government have be do , include on Brimstone and the package of £ 245 million - worth of ammunition . however , may I ask specifically about 155 mm shell and the BAE Systems production line ? have it now get the order to ensure that it be work at maximum capacity , on a war footing , to produce all it can to support Ukraine and indeed , in due course , our own stockpile ? it be a pleasure to take my first contribution from my right hon . friend in the Chamber since he become Chairman of the Select Committee . I look forward to further discussion with he later this afternoon on other matter before the Committee . he be right to stress the importance of that contract — 155 mm shell be one of the fundamental munition we need to see both replenish for the UK armed force and , where possible , provide into Ukraine , along with other key artillery class . I can confirm that we sign that contract with BAE last July and it should lead to an eightfold increase in 155 mm production , initially in the Washington plant , but thereafter in south Wales . I be keen to see that get go as soon as possible . the MOD have clearly do a decent job of support Ukraine , but I still doubt that the Government as a whole be seize of the urgent critical nature of this crisis . I return to the question I ask the Secretary of State last week : why , when it be clear early in 2022 that this be go to be very much an artillery war date back to the last century , do it take until mid - 2023 to place the order for additional artillery shell ? the Minister should have the answer by now . I refer to the previous answer I give , where I be clear that we place that order last July , as the right hon . Gentleman rightly say ; that be for our own armed force and it be an eightfold increase . but we have provide 300 , 000 artillery shell into Ukraine . we have procure they , Sir . we have do that not just from this country ; we have do it through rapid procurement , through Defence Equipment and Support . all I can say be that I pay tribute to that effort . we all know that we need to go far . the other point be that this be not just about what we have procure ; this country have play a lead role in ensure that other nation join we and provide more munition . that be as much a key part of the role that we have play . last week , in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly joint session in Brussels , top military leader describe to we their concern that the EU ethical banking law be go to stop investment in arm company . will my hon . friend confirm that the UK will always ensure that the money need to invest in make sure that Europe can protect itself against russian aggression will be there and that the arm can be manufacture ? my right hon . friend ask about an excellent point . both the Secretary of State and I have comment on that . I have hold meeting at the Treasury and with defence company about the ESG — environmental , social and governance — issue , as well as with financial institution , at Rothschild in the City , because it be extraordinary that anyone should think we should not invest in core munition when we see now that the cause they support be peace , freedom and democracy . if we do not fund our defence sector , we simply will not be able to defend those fine principle . President Zelensky say yesterday that without new military aid from the United States , Ukraine would be unable to defend the Black sea shipping corridor , which have enable the export of 33 million metric tonne of ukrainian grain . that have be enable in part by the supply by the UK of the Storm Shadow missile and by France ' s supply of the SCALP missile . what be the Government discuss with german counterpart about their potential to supply their equivalent , the Taurus missile system ? I know that the hon . Gentleman also serve and speak with expertise on these matter . he be right to raise the issue of the strategic importance of the Black sea . we have have huge progress in that area . I believe that since we reopen that corridor , through the success that the Ukrainians have have , with our support , in push back the russian fleet to the east , some 19 million tonne of grain have get through . that underline how important that corridor be , but he be right to say that we need to look at what more we can do . obviously , I be not go to comment on sensitive matter about individual country ' capability , but he can rest assure that we continue to engage with all our ally on these point . the russian invasion of Ukraine be a direct threat to Europe and of course to wide global security . as my hon . friend will know , Russia have increase , as part of its war mobilisation , its production of shell and ammunition by some factor of 10 — or it be plan to do so in the next two or three year . what conversation have he have across Europe and with NATO ally about the long - term response to this serious challenge ? my right hon . friend recently join the Select Committee and I welcome he to it . he make an excellent point . first , there be a lot of speculation about the level of production by the Russians . they have need to increase that because they have lose a huge amount of ordnance and armoured vehicle and , tragically , a large number of personnel . on the long term , I draw his attention to the mpi , which be where we be join other NATO member for collective order of ordnance . the first one we have announce be for missile and for munition . that be a powerful signal . we hope it will send a strong demand signal to industry in Europe , but it also send a signal to Putin and the world that we be determined to stand together and stand up to Putin . the UK have a great record of support Ukraine — for example , train ukrainian troop be something we can be really proud of — but may I press the Minister on something ? how much of the £ 2 . 5 billion for 2024 be be spend on Ukraine and how much be be spend on UK operational cost at NATO basis ? my right hon . friend the Minister for Armed Forces answer that in detail at oral question . the key point be that we will not do a line - by - line breakdown of every aspect of the £ 2 . 5 billion . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that it be an incredibly important step forward in our support to Ukraine . as he know , we have be able to confirm that that include , for example , £ 245 million on artillery munition and £ 200 million on drone . those be incredibly important commitment , and they go with all the other effort we have make , but we know that there be more to do , with our ally . along with a group of colleague , I go to the US before Christmas to try to persuade the Republicans there to vote this Bill through urgently — we have a marginal effect on they . the thing I say to they be , " you be face an axis of authoritarianism ; China , North Korea , Russia and Iran be all in league together and they be win . " when I be in Ukraine , I see the Ukrainians take mine out with bayonet and not have the equipment they need . do my hon . friend agree that this have tell we that none of we be ready for what war be really all about — barbed wire , minefield and artillery shell ? do he not agree that we need to do more ? I pay tribute to my right hon . friend for his incredibly important effort engage with the US . obviously , the position the US take and the decision it make on support be a matter for the US Government and legislature , but my right hon . friend be right to make the wide strategic point . surely we be unite on the need to have a deterrent against all the adversary and threat we face around the world . I sincerely hope it will not be the case , but if Russia be to make much more progress and succeed , it would embolden other adversary . he be right about the horror of warfare . that be why we need to invest in our own armed force and conventional deterrent , but above all to keep support Ukraine as much as we possibly can . the HALO Trust estimate that around 2 million landmine have be lay in Ukraine . Mike Newton from the HALO Trust have say : " Ukraine can not be rebuild until the landmine be remove . life itself depend on get rid of they . " what be the Minister do to ensure that fund go to the demining of Ukraine ? what more preventive work can we do internationally to persuade those country that be supply landmine to desist from do so and to sign the landmine convention ? the hon . Lady ' s excellent point about mine follow on from the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) . I be happy to go away and look into that to see what we be able to say about what we be do . she will appreciate that there be also the issue of naval mine . I believe we will be look at that , but there be some sensitivity within the maritime capability coalition ; I will look into the issue far . I can not say that there be a button I can press to stop those country that be provide those munition , but we know Putin keep some rather interesting company and that we , as democracy , need to stand together to ensure we support Ukraine in this fight . will my hon . friend join I in pay tribute to the fantastic work be do by Defence Equipment and Support in my constituency in ensure that the overwhelming amount of support and military equipment we have supply arrive on time at the frontline ? what can we do to speed up the process of collaboration in manufacturing in Ukraine between british and ukrainian company ? that will be huge in the future to ensure that the Ukrainians can produce their own kit on the ground and provide a deterrent after they have beat the Russians . my hon . friend be sterling in his championing of the ukrainian cause and of the excellent work do by DE & S in his constituency . I have visit Abbey Wood twice and there be excellent leadership under Andy Start . DE & S have be responsible for the procurement of a huge amount of munition and material at pace in Ukraine , but my hon . friend be right that we also need to think about the long term and how Ukraine can start to build its own industrial base . that be why we recently have our first defence trade visit there . I be keen to see much more of that and please to have his support for that work . may I take the opportunity to reiterate how proud we be of our armed force personnel , who have work around the clock to train and support ukrainian recruit as part of the vital Op Interflex ? I urge the Government to confirm where that programme will be after the summer and to make a commitment to it for as long as it take Ukraine to win . the hon . Lady make the good point that we should pay tribute to all the personnel involve in Operation Interflex . we have provide a huge amount of training . I go to Salisbury plain to meet the Irish Guards who be train ukrainian civilian of all background , who would have but week of training before return to a pretty attritional conflict . we all need to reflect on that . it be an incredible operation that have have international support from many other nation . the hon . Lady be right that we be in it for the long term , and we will keep train Ukrainians to defend their homeland . I have just return from Ukraine . there be absolutely nothing but praise for what Britain have do in provide the munition and equipment require , and in stand up to Putin when so many other blink at that moment . it be clear that what be happen in Ukraine will move out far . Putin be now more powerful than Stalin and be try to emulate what Stalin do in eastern Europe . can we agree that Europe be at war ? this affect our economy and our security . we have show leadership up to now , so can we continue by allow frozen asset , base in the UK , belong to Russia , to be slide across the table to Ukraine ? as ever , my right hon . friend make some excellent point . I pay tribute to he and other colleague who go to Ukraine to show that we stand 100 % with Ukraine , and to show our solidarity as parliamentarian with they as a free democracy . he make an excellent point on frozen russian asset . the Prime Minister be clear that he want to look at how we can do that and make the point that , obviously , we have to work internationally , particularly with the G7 . initially we will be look at the interest earn on those asset , but we should definitely be focus on this across Government . will the Government retain UK air defence capability support NATO ally on the frontline , such as Poland ? can further medical unit be dispatch to treat and rehabilitate any Ukrainian or Brit injure by russian force ? I apologise for miss the first part of the hon . Gentleman ' s question ; I will write to he on that . on the second part , within the training figure I mention , there be significant training for medical personnel . I be happy to include that in the letter . whether it be train medical personnel or frontline soldier , the effort we have put in place be huge , it be international and we will do everything we can to keep it go . the number of NATO member country meet the 2 % gdp commitment be expect to rise from seven last year to 18 later this year . indication from the US suggest that the US Government be more likely to release an expect $ 60 billion - worth of commitment to Ukraine once republican congressman have have their primary . will the Minister confirm that the british defence industry at home be now on a war footing and that we be well able to spend UOR — urgent operational requirement — money and deliver it to Ukraine ? my hon . friend as ever ask an excellent question . as he highlight , this have to be an international effort . there be a tendency to overplay the negative voice , but my experience from international meeting be of an overwhelming consensus , from small nation to large nation , and of a huge desire to keep support Ukraine in every way possible . obviously , the role of the US be fundamental . I can give he the assurance that we will work with the british defence industry to ramp up production . we will be bring forward a munition strategy soon and the goal of always - on production will be most in the interest of both the military and our defence sector . along with colleague from across the House , I have just return from a sobering visit to Ukraine , during which we hear about what some refer to as " the slow yes " from a number of our ally on provide military supply . that be cost life on the frontline and limit military option . will the Minister tell we what specific recent effort the Government have make to convey a real sense of urgency to key ally ? will he urge his Cabinet colleague to redouble their effort in this respect ? I assure the hon . Lady that at every international meeting and engagement we attend , whether multilaterally or bilaterally , we do everything possible to encourage our ally to join we in support . as I say in answer to the previous question , although there be a tendency to pick out negative voice , the overwhelming consensus among our ally be to want to support and do more . there will always be a debate about how quickly we can get stuff into line . we have do everything possible to get our support out as quickly as possible , include predate the war itself , so we can be proud of our effort . I be acutely aware that we need to do more , particularly in concert with our ally . partly as a result of the magnificent effort we have make in the past couple of year , our stockpile have go and our warehouse be empty . I very much welcome the Government announcement about £ 245 million for artillery shell describe by the Minister , but do he agree there have be a series of legalistic and bureaucratic delay to the issuing of contract ? british manufacturer be frustrate , because they be unable to crack on with produce the kind of good we need . I would not say that the cupboard be empty . we have to have our own level of holding for our own military , but we have gift as much as we can . the obvious example be the AS - 90 that we gift ; we rapidly replace that with the interim artillery solution from Sweden , the Archer gun . I be pleased to say that early this morning I announce the launch of the next stage of the new medium helicopter competition , which be an important procurement for the UK military . that speak to the fact that we be still carry out core procurement for ourselves . in addition to 155 mm shell , we have place order for lightweight multirole missile , Starstreak and a whole range of other munition so we can replenish our stock . we should not be afraid to say that what we have donate , support and procure internationally , which be a huge part , have play a massive role that we should be proud of , while recognise the need to do as much as we can , with our ally , go forward . I be privileged to join colleague on a cross - party delegation to Ukraine this weekend . the shortage of equipment , ammunition and supply come up time and again . how be the UK Government monitor and hold accountable those involve in the supply chain to prevent delay , misuse or diversion of military equipment ? that be a good question . obviously , much of this work be happen internationally and in - country with Ukraine . I can not go into operational detail , but , absolutely , it be one thing to procure the equipment and capability — whether that be buy internationally , gift or contribute to international fund , as many country do , in order that other country may do that — but we need to make sure that it all get to the frontline . in all the discussion that we have have about military hardware , it be easy to forget the human cost of this war , not least the 20 , 000 child steal by the Russians and never return to their family . as we say on day one , if Putin win in Ukraine , he will not stop there ; other country will be next . that be why it be vital that the UK and ally continue to provide Ukraine with the weapon that it need . but Russia must also pay . may I ask the Government to double down on the work that they be do to use the proceed of frozen russian asset to pay for this war and the reconstruction of Ukraine , so that Russia know that it can not get away with this ? my right hon . friend , who speak with great passion , be right to talk about the need to hold Russia to account . we have say that repeatedly . we have say that in reference both to the war itself and to specific action , such as those involve Alexei Navalny and so on . we be under no illusion about the nature of that regime and what would happen if it be to succeed . we have have that view right from the beginning , and it be brilliant that so many country have join we in that effort . I strongly believe that without our effort Ukraine would not still be in the fight . how do we keep the Ukrainians there ? we must keep provide the munition that we have describe , keep train the personnel in Interflex , and keep ensure that our ally join we in all of those effort . the US State Department have reportedly calculate that North Korea have deliver 10 , 000 container of munition to Russia for deployment in Ukraine . what can be do to disrupt the supply chain ? that be not a straightforward question to answer . as I say right at the beginning about the thing that ultimately come from military intelligence , these be sensitive matter , but the hon . Gentleman can rest assure that these be priority that we look at very closely with our international partner . I , too , join my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight ( Bob Seely ) and other colleague in Ukraine at the weekend . the point about the " slow yes " to the provision of kit and fund be well make by the hon . member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) . as well as conventional warfare , the Russians be increasingly use cyber warfare , recently take out virtually the whole mobile network , with implication for the frontline as well . central to counter that be advanced satellite technology provide by british company , which also have application for mine detection . have recently have a spread of 30 metre , they can now get it down to 5 cm with heat detection device . these be crucial , so can we make sure that we do not just limit our support to conventional warfare ammunition , but look at high - tech and cyber warfare , which will be increasingly necessary ? my hon . friend make an extremely important point . we know already that the battle space be contest and that force need to be closely integrate , but what Ukraine have show above all else be the extraordinary extent to which electronic warfare play a role . the mass jamming across the domain have to be factor into any kit that be use , and it will have to be factor into procurement go forward . we must be aware of these development . we have our own brilliant resource , such as the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory , and there be thing that we have do that be sensitive and that have provide support as far as possible , but he be right to talk in particular about the importance of the space domain . the UK be lucky to have a strong , sovereign space industry , support defence in the civil sector . go forward , we need to be aware of how warfare be change and be able to respond rapidly with our procurement . I thank the Minister for his helpful and encouraging answer . have read in the press recently about the price of military supply and the protract situation in Ukraine , it be clear that help with military supply be essential . as I understand it , missile can cost as much as £ 1 million each . be there any more that can be do with our NATO ally , financially , physically and militarily , to help ensure that Ukraine continue to have the mean to stave off the ceaseless attack by Russia ? as ever , we save the good till last . [ interruption . ] oh , the hon . Gentleman be second to last , my apology . nevertheless , I shall always say that when he be call to speak . the hon . Gentleman make a very good point about the cost . when we talk about the multilateral procurement initiative , we could argue that it be like a bulk buy between nation . obviously , we want to see economy of scale for that in exchange for the massive demand signal that we will be provide for european industry . however , the key point be not just to send a demand signal , but , ultimately , to send a deterrent signal . if we in Europe rally round in european NATO along with our US ally and step up the pace on industrial reinvigoration in the defence space , that will in itself be part of the deterrent message that we send to Putin . along with colleague from across the House , I be in Ukraine at the weekend , and I be strike by the gratitude of the Ukrainians to the UK . I be also strike by the word of General Wesley Clark , speak at the Yalta european strategy conference , when he make a prediction that we be in the second year of a six - year war . if that prediction be accurate , will the Minister outline what effort be under way to locate compatible ammunition supply from country with old stock , and do he agree that it be important to get supply out of stockpile and on to the frontline in Ukraine , so that we can tip this war in Ukraine ' s favour ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for join other colleague in go out to Ukraine , show the solidarity that we have for it and the strong cross - parliamentary consensus . often when we talk about procurement for Ukraine , there can be some misunderstanding . just to be clear , an awful lot of the munition that have be provide be source internationally , but we do not necessarily go into the minute detail of that . he be absolutely right ; initially that mean provide what be largely ex - soviet stock , but in the long term we want to enable the Ukrainians to produce munition to NATO standard . we want to work closely with they on that , and that be how we will get their industry into order so that they can sustain their own ability to fight over the long term . Israel and Gaza May I start by congratulate you , Mr Speaker , on your successful visit early last week to St Helena ? with permission , I shall now update the House on the situation in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . let I begin by reiterate Israel ' s right to defend itself against Hamas . we condemn the slaughter , abuse and gender - base violence perpetrate on 7 October 2023 , Hamas ' s use of civilian area , their continue failure to release hostage and their ongoing launching of attack into Israel . equally , we be deeply concerned about the humanitarian situation in Gaza , with ten of thousand of innocent civilian kill and injure . the most effective way to end the fighting in Gaza — the absolute focus of our diplomatic effort right now — be to agree an immediate humanitarian pause . that would allow for the safe release of hostage and a significant increase in the aid go to Gaza . crucially , it would also provide a vital opportunity to establish the condition for a genuinely long - term and sustainable ceasefire without a return to destruction , fighting and loss of life . that be the position share by our close partner . it be an outcome that we believe be in reach right now and we urge all side to seize it . many people may ask , include some in this House , why we be call for a pause but not an immediate ceasefire . we do not believe that do so , hope that it somehow become permanent , be the way forward . simply call for a ceasefire will not make one happen . there be a different and well way to stop the fighting permanently : to push for a pause and , in it , secure a sustainable ceasefire that can hold for the long term without a return to the fighting . the british Government have set out the vital element to achieve a last peace : the release of all hostage ; the removal of Hamas ' s capacity to launch attack against Israel ; Hamas no long be in charge of Gaza ; the formation of a new palestinian Government for the west bank and Gaza , accompany by an international support package ; and a political horizon that provide a credible and irreversible pathway towards a two - state solution . once we secure a pause , we will need to take action on all those element to create irreversible momentum towards peace . meanwhile , Britain and our partner continue to do all we can to alleviate the suffering . we treble our aid commitment this financial year , and we be do everything we can to get more aid in and open more crossing . last week , Britian and Jordan airdrop life - save aid to a hospital in northern Gaza . the airdrop provide 4 tonne of vial supply , include medicine , fuel and food for hospital patient and staff . the Tal al - Hawa Hospital , set up by the jordanian armed force , be locate in Gaza City and have treat thousand of patient since the start of the crisis . woman be bear the brunt of the desperate humanitarian situation in Gaza today . many thousand be pregnant and will be worry about deliver their baby safely . that be why over the weekend we also announce £ 4 . 25 million of new funding for the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency in response to an appeal for the Occupied Palestinian Territories . that new UK funding will help make give birth safe and will improve the life of mother and their newborn baby . it be clear , however , that the flow of aid need to be rapidly and significantly scale up . we have reiterate the need for Israel to open more crossing point into Gaza , for Nitzana and Kerem Shalom to be open for long , and for Israel to support the UN in distribute aid effectively across the whole of Gaza . the Foreign Secretary ' s representative for humanitarian affair in the Occupied Palestinian Territories , Mark Bryson - Richardson , be base in the region and be work intensively to address the blockage prevent more aid from reach Gaza . we also continue to urge Israel to limit its operation to military target and avoid harm civilian and destroy home . we have express our deep concern about the prospect and consequence of a military incursion into Rafah . More than half of Gaza ' s population be shelter in the area , include more than 600 , 000 child , and they have nowhere to go . the Rafah crossing remain vital to ensure aid can reach the people who so desperately need it . the path to a long - term solution will not be easy . ultimately , a two - state solution be the good way to ensure safety and security for Israelis and Palestinians . the Foreign Secretary underline that at the G20 Foreign Ministers meeting in Rio last week . the Prime Minister and all ministerial colleague will continue to press for that in engagement with regional partner , include with Prime Minister Netanyahu . we welcome the prospect of further normalisation agreement between Israel and arab partner . we be commit to support their endure success and effort to ensure that normalisation deliver benefit for the Palestinians too . our long - stand position remain that we will recognise a palestinian state at the time that be most conducive to the peace process . the Palestinian Authority have an important long - term role to play and will need continue support from we and our partner , but it must also take concrete step on reform . the palestinian people need a technocratic and effective Administration that can win the confidence of the people of Gaza . we stand ready to support the Palestinian Authority to achieve that aim , follow the announcement yesterday of the resignation of the Prime Minister and the previous set of Ministers . we also remain concerned about the situation in the west bank , and have take action in response to extremist settler violence . I repeat our commitment to find a last resolution to this conflict that ensure that Israelis and Palestinians can live in the future with dignity and security . the goal of our diplomacy in the middle east be to see an end to the fighting and create a permanent peace base on a new political horizon for the region . we will continue work tirelessly to make that happen . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . once again , I note with disappointment that , give the seriousness of the geopolitical environment , the Foreign Secretary be absent from scrutiny by member on both side of the House . since the Minister ' s last statement , there have be another month of intolerable civilian death , famine and disease in Gaza ; another month of hostage family in Israel live in anguish ; another month of worsen regional escalation ; another month of war that can not and must not go on . unlike the Government , Labour have always be clear that Israel must comply with the International Court of Justice ' s order . the ICJ say : " Israel must take measure to ensure humanitarian access " . but last week the World Food Programme suspend its aid operation in northern Gaza . M é decin Sans Fronti è re say : " we no long speak of a humanitarian scale - up ; we speak of how to survive even without the bare minimum . " the Association of International Development Agencies tell I that visa for 100 humanitarian worker in Gaza and the west bank have expire or be about to expire . there have be no humanitarian visa renewal since the outbreak of this war , leave humanitarian worker face deportation when the palestinian people need they most . will the Minister tell the israeli Government that humanitarian visa must be renew now , that aid into Gaza must flow unimpeded now , and that Israel must comply with all measure set out by the ICJ now ? it be with modesty that we debate Gaza in this House , because it be through diplomacy , not debate in Westminster , that we will ultimately secure an end to this war . there appear to have be progress over the weekend in Paris , so will the Minister update the House on the deal involve a truce in exchange for hostage ? be he optimistic that it will be achieve by Ramadan ? we all fear the war continue into Ramadan . will he assure we that the Government be be absolutely crystal clear to Israel that its threaten full offensive on Rafah must not go ahead ? I hear the Minister when he say that simply call for a ceasefire will not make one happen , but neither will call for a pause , which confuse our share desire for fight to stop and not restart . I therefore ask the Minister , in all good conscience , whether he really disagree that our goal should be an immediate ceasefire now . do he disagree that both side should stop the fighting now ? do he disagree that all hostage should be release now ? do he disagree that aid should flow unimpeded into Gaza now ? do he disagree that Britain should work with international partner to recognise the palestinian state now ? do he disagree that we should work together to establish a diplomatic process to deliver a two - state solution ? I respect the Minister , the right hon . Gentleman , greatly , and I strongly suspect that he agree with every word of labour ' s position , and that the Foreign Secretary do too . can we speak together , as we have do on Ukraine ? our word bring pressure and send a powerful signal that , for once , we can put the political game aside and meet as the Government and the official Opposition to agree a share position and put out a statement call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire now . I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for what he say . I must say to he that I set out at some length in the debate last week the Government ' s position in the amendment that we table . have listen to he with great care today , I must say that his position , on behalf of the official Opposition , be incredibly close to what the Government set out in our amendment last week . he ask I to set out clearly our position ; our position be very clearly set out in that amendment . I be warm by the fact that his position today appear to be almost identical to that . the right hon . Gentleman ask what the Government ' s position be . we have be clear : we be try to negotiate . he ask I whether I agree with he on an immediate pause to get hostage out , and to get incredibly badly need aid in , lead to a sustainable ceasefire . he mention the position on humanitarian visa and humanitarian worker . there be nothing between we on that ; we be do everything we can to advance that position . the right hon . Gentleman ask I about recent humanitarian entry . I can tell he that on Sunday 25 February , 94 truck get in , but on 22 February , 220 truck get in — 178 through Kerem Shalom and 42 through Rafah . that be the high number since 17 January . those figure show that it be possible to get vital humanitarian aid in , and we must do everything we can to ensure that those high level continue . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the hostage negotiation . there have be a great deal in the press over the weekend . he ask whether I be optimistic . the answer be that I be neither optimistic nor pessimistic , but I can tell he that the British Government be do everything we can to ensure that negotiation be successful . I be sure that the Minister agree that it be profoundly in the british interest for there to be a properly function system of international rule and law , and that the International Court of Justice be central to that system , so what concrete step be the Government take to enforce the Court ' s rule on the conflict — not condemn , press or discuss , but enforce it ? be it the Minister ' s view that an assault on Rafah , give its impact on civilian — include , as he point out , 600 , 000 child — would be in line with the ruling of the International Court of Justice ? on his latter point , my right hon . friend hear what I say in the statement . as the whole House know , the ruling of the Court be bind and must therefore be respect . however , I point out to he that a recent episode of the " Law & Disorder " podcast , by three of the UK ' s most experienced jurist , include two senior member of the other place , conclude that it be not possible , at the time that episode be make , to declare that Israel be in breach of international humanitarian law . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Minister for prior sight of his statement . we welcome the news that a ceasefire deal may be edge close . we have be call for a ceasefire and hostage - release deal since it become apparent that Israel ' s self - defence have turn into a war against an entire civilian population — a war in which , in just five month , 30 , 000 people have be kill , 80 , 000 injure , and 2 million displace . now , 500 , 000 innocent people face starvation , not because food be not available , but because of a premeditated decision to impose collective punishment — one that have deliberately stop food get to those who need it . throughout this unimaginable horror , the UK continue to profit from the carnage by sell weapon to Israel . shamefully , there have be no real desire or attempt from the UK to make the slaughter stop . the Government seem happy to continue provide tacit support for this illegal occupation , this systematic decade - long oppression and persecution , and now the ethnic cleansing and collective punishment that go with it . if and when we get a US deal to the UN , what action will the UK Government take ? vote for a ceasefire can not happen in isolation . will the UK Government stop sell weapon to Israel ? will they finally get behind the International Court of Justice investigation ? will they fund , as they do quite rightly in the case of Ukraine , an International Criminal Court investigation of Israel ' s prosecution of this conflict ? whatever happen , Minister , this sorry episode will be remember for be one of the most shameful in the history of british foreign policy , because we have witness a complete dereliction of all moral and legal responsibility from a Government and a Parliament that , at the time of great humanitarian crisis , have simply look the other way . quite rightly , history will judge they harshly for it . I simply do not think the idea that the Government have look the other way carry any possible credibility at all . the hon . Gentleman might remember that the source of all this be the 7 October pogrom commit against the israeli people — the bad killing of jewish people at any time since the end of the second world war . there need to be some balance in what be say , and the language that he use be not helpful to the central aim that we all have : to bring about a ceasefire , and get hostage out and aid in . also , the hon . Gentleman should remember that Britain have the tough weapon regulation and arm export regime of anywhere in the world . he talk about collective punishment , but the point that he miss be that our determination since day one have be to get as much food as we possibly can into Gaza . if he look back at everything the Government have say on this , we have be work as hard as anyone to get that humanitarian relief into Gaza . I submit that beneath the sound and fury of what he say , there be more substantial agreement between his party and the Government than he recognise . I thank my right hon . friend for come to the House and set out a clear and principled statement . as he know , our position be thoroughly in line with that of our partner — the one who be involve in very serious and sensitive negotiation right now to end the fighting . will he say a bit more about the concrete step towards reform ? he mention the Palestinian Authority and the resignation of Prime Minister Shtayyeh yesterday . do the reform that he have in mind include an end to endemic corruption , to incitement to violence through the school curriculum , and to the terrible policy of pay convict terrorist a reward for have carry out murder ? my right hon . friend recognise that there will need to be significant change in the approach that we have make on many of those issue . the british five - point plan encompass most of what he believe should happen : the release of all israeli hostage ; the formation of a new palestinian Government for the west bank and Gaza , accompany by an international support package that would recognise many of the thing that he have say ; remove Hamas ' s capacity to launch attack against Israel ; Hamas no long be in charge of Gaza ; and a political horizon that provide a credible and irreversible pathway towards a two - state solution . within those five point rest the answer to almost every point that he raise . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . my Committee and I be at the Gaza border last week try to get first - hand testimony of the 2 million story of suffering that now represent Gaza . what can I say to the House ? what we be hear be just a tiny fraction of the horror that be go on out there . will the Minister clarify one thing with the Israelis ? we speak to a senior UN security person who say that drone fly overhead be gather datum that artificial intelligence algorithm then translate into target . we know that civilian , humanitarian and medic be be kill , so will the Minister urge israeli defence to ensure that the algorithm protect the people that they be suppose to under international humanitarian law ? the Chairman of the Select Committee make a very good point , and I look forward to meet she later today to discuss this and other matter . I believe that the point that she have make be address by the fact that , just as in the UK military , target in Israel be subject to lawyer be present in the room and legal advice . that should give she some comfort on her specific point about drone target . on the post - conflict governance of both the west bank and Gaza , do the Minister share with I some concern that while the Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority have resign , there be still key Fatah people in place ? he will know that in 2007 , the palestinian people in Gaza reject Fatah , and we all see where that end up on 7 October . why do he , along with the United States , think that Fatah will be part of the — albeit technocratic — post - conflict governance solution for both the west bank and Gaza ? my right hon . friend make an important and interesting point . the new Government on the west bank who have result from the resignation of the Prime Minister over the weekend be an interim government , and many of these point can be address during the period of interim Government before we move to a new Government on the west bank . I welcome the Minister call publicly for Israel to limit its military operation to military target . in turn , we should recall that hostage taking be strictly prohibit under international humanitarian law , and the International Committee of the Red Cross should be grant access to captive hold by Hamas . in the long term , I and the Liberal Democrats believe that Israel would be more secure follow a successful negotiation base on a two - state solution . do the Minister agree with we that negotiation should begin from the position that the palestinian state should be base on the 1967 border ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point , but he will have see from the Government ' s amendment last week that a very clear process be go on . I very much hope that his party can support it . I know that the Government be do everything they can to get food into Gaza , but we hear increase number of report of malnourishment and even starvation of adult and child . will the Government say to the Israelis that there really be no acceptable reason to not allow food in now ? my hon . friend be right : there be no acceptable reason . that be why the Government be press so hard to get additional humanitarian support into not only the southern part of Gaza , but the northern part . the Minister tell the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for Argyll and Bute ( Brendan o ' Hara ) , that there need to be some balance , yet the word " accountability " seem to be miss from his statement . the UK Government recognise the jurisdiction and independence of the ICJ , which be of course investigate the alleged war crime and genocidal action of the israeli Government in Gaza . as a champion of international law and human right , will the Minister confirm that his Government recognise that Israel have an obligation to comply with the ICJ ' s ruling of 26 January , and that the UK will support the Court ' s decision to issue an opinion examine the legality of the occupation ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s first point , we be very much in favour of accountability and transparency . that be at the heart of the reason why both our party have be strong supporter of the International Criminal Court . he will be aware of the legal position on the ICJ ' s ruling , which I set out a moment or two ago . in attempt to build confidence for a humanitarian pause , we have to remember that the last time a pause be negotiate , Hamas break it , rearm and start fire again , and steal the international aid that be go in to help those poor Palestinians . what measure will my right hon . friend take to ensure that the precondition for a humanitarian pause be the release of hostage ; that international aid actually get to the people who need it , and be not divert by Hamas ; and that Hamas respect such a pause ? my hon . friend be correct . he underline the great difficulty in negotiate and agree a pause or ceasefire when one of the party be absolutely clear that they do not want one , and that they wish to replicate the event that take place on 7 October . that be the official position of Hamas . what be the Minister ' s assessment of the effect of the UK ' s abstention on last week ' s Security Council vote on the US and its position ? we be work towards a further United Nations Security Council resolution . Britain be continue , as it have from the start , to try to bring people together behind the common position that I set out early . we will continue to do so in respect of future United Nations Security Council resolution whenever we can . Hamas be a terrorist organisation full of rapist , murderer and repressor — that can not be overlook at any time in these conversation . the reality be that the Gaza area have have hundred of million of dollar and other currency invest in it . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement and associate myself with everything in it . he have talk about how the rebuilding will happen afterwards , so I ask he to ensure that as part of that rebuilding , the aid that will need to go in be use effectively to make that area the prosperous area it can be once it be free from the tyranny of those terrorist . my right hon . friend set out very well one of the key aspect of the five - point plan , which Britain be do everything we can to see implement . just a few week ago , in a debate on arm export to Israel , the Minister for Trade Policy tell Westminster Hall : " we take our obligation in this space exceptionally seriously . as I have show before , we have act to change policy in relation to change circumstance on the ground . " — [ Official Report , 12 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 272WH . ] the circumstance be tragic and brutal , and crystal clear to anyone willing to see they : Gaza be be raze to the ground and civilian actively target , potentially use the very equipment that the UK be export to Israel . over 12 , 000 child have be butcher , with the Israel Defence Forces busy take selfie over the ruin and body . what exactly will it take for this Government to suspend arm export to Israel ? the position that the Minister set out in Westminster Hall be absolutely correct . the Government take legal advice on this matter , the arm export Committee do its work effectively , and we will continue to act on the advice that we be give when we be give it . as I say last week , a ceasefire be a contract between two side that be oversee by a third party . neither side be agree to a ceasefire right now , nor be there a third party in place to oversee it . I be happy to say today that I want a ceasefire and the step to get we there , and I also want Parliament to speak with a single voice , which be so much more powerful than our table motion that we then divide the House on . speak with one voice will require consensus and compromise , so before we risk repeat last week ' s fiasco that see tension rise , I invite the Minister — as he have allude to in his remark — to quietly bring together the opposition party at no . 10 to see whether a consensus line can be agree to avoid this House return to the circus we see last week . I thank the former Chairman of the Defence Committee for his wise and sensible approach . as I say early to both the shadow Foreign Secretary and the SNP spokesman , if we study carefully the Government amendment that be table in the SNP debate last week , we see a very substantial degree of agreement . we must try very hard to build on that so that the House speak with one voice , as my right hon . Friend say . it have be three month since the pause between 24 and 30 November , and at that point the aid could not reach people because of the infrastructure challenge . today , those infrastructure challenge have escalate , and certainly a pause would not serve to get that aid into the place it need to go . why will the Minister not review his position in light of the fact that , to date , it have not achieve what it need to : ensure that humanitarian aid reach all the people who need it ? that will require a ceasefire , will it not ? the hon . Member accurately set out the fact that what be hope for some week and month ago have not be realise , but that should merely incentivise we to redouble our effort to get the necessary aid and support into Gaza . I would point out that Jamie McGoldrick , the highly experienced UN resident co - ordinator , say over the weekend that he hope it will be possible for the United Nations to return to Khan Younis when military operation end there . that show that the situation be dynamic , and we be do anything we can to move with it to achieve the result that she and I both want . give the humanitarian situation in Gaza , what do the Minister think be stop Hamas release the hostage ? to some extent , my hon . and gallant Friend answer his own question . deal with an organisation such as Hamas be extraordinarily difficult , as we have see over recent week and month . have the Government of Israel yet share with his Majesty ' s Government their purport evidence of United Nations Relief and Works Agency complicity in the attack of 7 October , and if so , when do they do it ? the review of UNRWA , as the right hon . Member may know , be be conduct first and foremost by the independent UN Office of Internal Oversight Services , and secondly , Catherine Colonna , the former french Foreign Minister , be engage in write a separate report . it be to both those two organisation that the evidence be require to be deliver . few would deny Israel ' s right to self - defence , but the ongoing event in Gaza be difficult to stomach . can the Minister please confirm to the House that everything possible be be do with our international partner to demand israeli restraint ? yes . the Minister make great play in his statement of say that " we also announce £ 4 . 25 million of new funding for the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency in response to an appeal for the Occupied Palestinian Territories . " how can he compare that £ 4 . 25 million figure with the amount of money that UK company be benefit from in arm sale that be slaughter thousand of child ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , we have triple our aid to the Occupied Palestinian Territories . while it may seem like a relatively small figure , we be careful guardian of british taxpayer ' money and we spend it on what we know we can do effectively . he will understand , from the position that exist at the moment on the west bank and in Gaza , the difficulty of make these subvention really count on the ground , but he will also understand the great need for they . can the Minister understand that some of we who be call for an immediate ceasefire now be do so against the backdrop of the horrific loss of innocent life — 1 , 200 innocent Israelis and 29 , 000 Palestinians ? our previous strategy from November of get hostage out and get aid in through humanitarian pause , which I support , have not work . that be why we be advocate for a new strategy . the world be look to the United Kingdom to lead at the Security Council , so can the United Kingdom now lead and get that ceasefire , and ensure as part of that motion that religious place of worship be protect ? if that be not include — give what we see with the storming of al - Aqsa — that would kick thing off again . please can we ensure that there be an immediate ceasefire and , as part of the Security Council resolution , that all place of worship be protect , especially as we be come into Ramadan , Passover and Easter ? we can not will a ceasefire unless both the protagonist be willing to endorse it . that be why Britain have argue consistently that the first thing to do be to get a humanitarian pause , so that we can get the hostage out and humanitarian aid in , and then build on that towards a ceasefire . that be the right thing to do in these circumstance . as far as the next United Nations Security Council resolution be concern , we be do everything we can to ensure that we make the progress the House quite rightly want to see . we have hear detail of the most appalling humanitarian situation in Rafah , with palestinian civilian survive on weed , animal feed and even birdseed . have the UK Government seek or secure any assurance that Israel will not launch a ground invasion of Rafah ? the hon . Lady will know that we be not in control of event . we have give our very strong advice and view , and the voice of this House will have be hear on the specific point she make . I thank the Minister for his statement , and I welcome the fact that the UK be now promise more humanitarian support for woman and girl , who always bear the brunt in conflict situation around the world . I welcome the £ 4 . 25 million of new funding for the United Nations sexual and reproductive health agency , but what be we do to make sure that the money actually get out of the agency and down to the ground to help the thousand of woman who he say be wait to give birth ? my hon . friend accurately identify the need , and we be seek , through this small but vital amount of money , to meet as much of that need as we practically can . I give she and the House the commitment that , if there be in due course the opportunity to do more on this front , we will certainly do it . while over 1 million people continue to starve , the aid deliver to Gaza over this month fall by half compare with January . the Minister speak about want to see more aid reach Gaza to alleviate the humanitarian nightmare that Palestinians face , but he be clearly ignore report from Human Rights Watch that Israel be block aid to Gaza . that be in direct contravention of the ICJ ' s instruction for Israel to ensure the delivery of aid to Gaza . do the Minister not see the huge flaw in argue for more aid to Gaza at the same time as he refuse to endorse the ICJ ' s interim ruling ? it be the Government ' s refusal to back one of the world ' s high court that have give the israeli Government the diplomatic cover they need to prevent aid from reach Gaza . the effort to get aid and supply in through Rafah be ongoing . the hon . member will be aware of the great difficulty there have be in get aid in through Rafah because of demonstration there , because of bottleneck and because of restriction . that be why Britain have be push for the large number of entry point , so that the aid that be available in the area can be get through those entry point to relieve people who be in the desperate need that he so eloquently sum up . it go without say that aid be only of any use if it actually reach the civilian population that need it , and there be evidence that Hamas be misappropriate up to 60 % of humanitarian aid enter Gaza , which be part of their long - term pattern of prioritise their fighter , abuse aid to produce rocket and use construction material to build hundred of mile of terror tunnel for their activity . do my right hon . friend share my concern that Hamas be flagrantly disregard the humanitarian need of the civilian population in Gaza , and that there can be no peace and no two - state solution until they lose control of Gaza ? my hon . friend could not have put it well . there be absolutely no doubt whatsoever that Hamas do not care at all about the suffering and the humanitarian need that exist in Gaza , and at no point have they show any understanding of what be happen as a result of their use the population of Gaza as a human shield for their vile activity . will the UK continue to sell arm to Israel result in few innocent civilian lose their life in Gaza ? I have set out the fact that Britain have the tough arm export regulation anywhere in the world . minister rely upon the legal advice and other advice that accompany the work of an independent committee within Government . the scale of the humanitarian disaster in Gaza be beyond word . the Times journalist Amal Helles have report that Gaza be a place now with no school , no job , no home and no street , yet the United Nations be say that the reduction in the number of food truck from January to February be 50 % . apparently , the average be 62 a day , compare with 500 a day before October . can my right hon . friend share with we what progress have be make in the talk on a six - week pause that would surely allow more aid to get in and more hostage out ? our determination , which my hon . friend articulate accurately , be to get that pause to enable the hostage to be release , and to get food in . that be the absolute burden of our activity . as I mention to the House , the number of truck get into Gaza be patchy . on Sunday , 94 truck get in , but on 22 February 220 truck get in , which be the high number since 17 January . what the House can determine from those figure be that not enough aid be get in , and we need a substantial increase in that number . that be why the negotiation we be pursue be so important . we be less than two week from the start of Ramadan , and the general consensus be that the ground offensive in Rafah would add to an already catastrophic situation , as well as the israeli operation in Gaza . More than 30 , 000 people have die . there be nowhere else for civilian in Gaza to go . will the Government listen and join I , my constituent and many other people , to say that the only way we can stop this be to have an immediate ceasefire ? I have explain to the House why call for an immediate ceasefire will not make it happen . it be the event that go with the purpose of achieve a pause and then a ceasefire that command the full attention of his Majesty ' s Government . the Minister be obviously extremely well aware of the International Court of Justice judgment and the interim ruling that come with it . he will also be aware that Israel have not adhere to the requirement make by the Court . in that context , will he tell the House exactly what military aid have be send to Israel , and exactly what the nature of the military co - operation be , and will he assure the House that no more arm will be supply to Israel until that judgment be adhere to ? as I set out to the House , and to the right hon . Gentleman , the former leader of the Labour party , these issue be govern by a rule of law in Britain , and by the arrangement that I set out to the hon . member for Inverness , Nairn , Badenoch and Strathspey ( Drew Hendry ) . the Government have no plan to deviate from those . the weakness in the Minister ' s statement be that it make his government a commentator rather than an actor in the situation in Gaza . if this House and our international partner speak with one voice in call for an immediate ceasefire , it would carry more weight with the Government of Israel . if he accept that the absence of a ceasefire have result in the death of ten of thousand , and the horrific suffering of 2 million palestinian civilian , do he not have a duty to call for a ceasefire now ? would that make the Government ' s case strong ? as I have set out , a ceasefire that collapse back into fighting within week be not in anyone ' s interest . the hon . Gentleman suggest that the Government be a spectator , but nothing could be far from the truth . if he look at what the Foreign Secretary have be do , at the way Britain ' s humanitarian representative in the Gulf have be act , and at all the discussion that have be go on in the region and at the UN , he will see that Britain be at the forefront of try to achieve a humanitarian pause , lead to a sustainable ceasefire , and that be what we will continue to do . the Foreign Secretary have call for a stop to the fighting now , but the Ministry of Defence sign a contract with arm manufacturer Elbit Systems on 17 January . that company reportedly supply up to 85 % of Israel ' s drone and land - base military equipment . the Minister call for advice in look at how arm be export . do he not agree that in light of that , the UK ' s approach appear to be deeply hypocritical ? what advice do he need to stop the sale of arm ? I do not agree with that , for reason that I hope I have set out clearly to the House . only an immediate ceasefire can protect civilian and implement the ICJ ' s historic plausible genocide ruling . with Ramadan less than 15 day away , aid agency warn that a ground offensive in Rafah could be catastrophic for the 1 . 5 million people take shelter there , include 600 , 000 child . if the Government only call for an immediate ceasefire if and when a full ground offensive in Rafah begin , what assessment have be make of whether they will have uphold their own obligation under international law , particularly in relation to the ICJ ' s provisional measure , include measure around the prevention of genocide ? I understand the passion with which the hon . Lady speak , but simply call for an immediate ceasefire will not make it happen . the good chance to stop the fighting be for an agreement in the hostage negotiation , which we can then use as the opportunity to deliver a full and permanent ceasefire . the Minister keep refer to the Government ' s amendment last week , but those be just word on bit of paper in the recycle bin . they could have be the resolution of this House , but the Government choose not to give this House that choice . instead , the resolution of this House be that there should be an immediate humanitarian ceasefire . what message do it send to the UN Security Council and wide international community if the Government will not adopt the language that have be agree by the democratic legislature to which they be accountable , namely this House of Commons ? the hon . Gentleman be rewrite history . last week see the Leader of the House , a member of the Government , defend the right of minority party , in particular the hon . Gentleman ' s party , from this Dispatch Box . I thank the Minister for his statement and for his answer , which have be helpful to everyone in the House . what progress have be make to attempt to reunite the israeli hostage with their family ? what progress have be make to ensure that refugee who have to leave their home can stay in family group and will have access to food , water and a semblance of education ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s final point , we will continue to do everything we can in that respect , and I be grateful for his comment about my answer be helpful to the whole of the House . he ask about the hostage , and he will have see newspaper report over the weekend about the hostage negotiation . although I can not comment in any detail on those negotiation , all of we be hope that they will continue to make progress , ultimately to success . clearly the need for humanitarian aid be desperate . we be hear report of force relocation up to 15 time , and many people in Gaza be reduce to eat weed and birdfeed , with healthcare reduce to medieval method . clearly an immediate humanitarian ceasefire be require . do the Minister agree that the 500 vehicle a day need to be restore as a matter of urgency , and that we should also look to restore and support UNRWA ? the hon . Gentleman be entirely right that we need a massive increase in the number of truck get into Gaza . he will have see that we have be work with the jordanian armed force . there be a drop of important humanitarian support last week , and we hope very much that there will be more . he will also have see that we have be work on the maritime side too . a meeting be go on today , but the hope be that it may be possible to pre - clear humanitarian aid and support . that would require the use of Ashdod as an entry point into Israel , and the Government be do everything we can to facilitate that . on UNRWA , the inquiry that the Minister have tell the House about will no doubt take some time , but have a hobbled UNRWA be undoubtedly exacerbate the humanitarian crisis that he have fully acknowledge . what consideration be he give to urgently resume UK funding to UNRWA ? as the right hon . Gentleman will know , Britain have fully fund UNRWA , and under our agreement with it , no fund from Britain be due until the next financial year . I can tell he that both Norway and Guyana have put forward additional funding in recent day that will mean UNRWA be at least fully fund until the end of March . development assistance for the Occupied Palestinian Territories have already reduce from £ 95 million in 2013 to £ 26 million in 2023 , before the suspension of UNRWA funding . despite question today and specific write question , the Government have refuse to declare what the source be for the basis of the allegation , and where that source come from , leave many to speculate that it be simply israeli allegation or israeli propaganda . other country , include Ireland and Spain , be continue to fund UNRWA . will the Government not ensure that UNRWA funding be restore , to avoid the perversity that we can find weapon and munition for Ukraine , but not money for humanitarian aid in Gaza ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we be wait for the interim report — the forensic report — into collusion , which the UN Office of Independent Oversight be prepare . it be right to wait for that report and Catherine Colonna ' s report as well . as I explain to the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , british funding be up to date , and it will be pause until we have see those report , but additional funding have be make available to UNRWA . as the House will accept , UNRWA ' s logistical support — its warehouse and vehicle — be essential to the distribution of aid within Gaza . on UNRWA funding , I want to follow up on his comment that we be up to date and wait on the report . can he give some assurance today that the Government will commit to bring back the funding ? what be the timescale on that ? the issue of british funding to UNRWA do not arise until the next financial year , but it be only right that we wait for the two report . as I say , one be from the UN Office of Internal Oversight Services , and the other be from the former french Foreign Minister . we be seek an interim report so that progress one way or the other can be make . will the UK Government take the evidence of the collective punishment in Gaza with the dehumanisation of Palestinians in the occupy west bank and come to the conclusion that the israeli Government be authorise an oppressive regime with the goal of the complete displacement of the palestinian people ? no , Madam Deputy Speaker . I make a plea to the Minister to go one step far and join the chorus , now include our ally in Australia , Canada and New Zealand , call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire now . it would send a powerful message . I have explain to the House that no matter how desirable it might be to achieve an immediate ceasefire , just call for one and willing it will not make it happen . that be why the British Government have set out clearly , along with our ally , what the necessary step be to reach the conclusion that the whole House would devoutly like to see . return to the recent ICJ ruling , as I understand it one of the problem be that no country have ever respond to a call for pre - emptive step when the court have make such a ruling . part of that challenge be that no clear criterion have previously be set out for any country to meet . can the Minister have discussion with his counterpart about agree a set of step that would be make available to country in the future , so that everyone can meet their obligation ? the hon . Lady make an interesting theoretical and legal point , and I suggest that those discussion might go on usefully between theorist and lawyer . I have raise with the Minister and other Ministers the case of my constituent who be try to get his wife and baby daughter through the Rafah crossing . very frustratingly , he can not get the mother on to the approve list . I know it be not the only case like that . will the Minister focus with a renew urgency to press the israeli and egyptian authority to resolve these delay and make sure that these people can get through to safety ? my answer to the hon . Gentleman be yes . he and I have discuss the specific case , as well as the general case to which he be allude . I can tell he that the expert in the Foreign Office , extremely experienced in these matter , be do everything they possibly can to advance that objective . the horror and huge number of casualty in Gaza be unfold for all the world to see . alone of the three large party in this House , the SNP have call for an immediate ceasefire — not a humanitarian pause or a humanitarian ceasefire . we have also call for an end to collective punishment , which constitute a war crime and have cost 30 , 000 life so far and leave 500 , 000 face death by starvation . our constituent be rightly outraged . regardless of the Minister ' s personal view , do he share my concern that Members of this House have be deny a recorded vote to express their view on these life or death matter , which be what our constituent want to see ? without revisit the event of last week , I have no doubt of the worry of our constituent to which the hon . Lady refer . that be why I set out at the beginning why I think the british Government ' s position , as articulate in the content of the amendment that I fail to move last week , command widespread support among our constituent . although it be not vote on , as she rightly say , the amendment set out the Government ' s position , which I think should be widely support among our constituent . some 5 % of child under the age of two be malnourished in Rafah . I note that in the Minister ' s statement , he express concern about the prospect of military incursion , but Rafah can not happen ; the consequence would be unbearable . will the Minister go far , and do everything he can with the international community to prevent the Rafah invasion from occur ? on the hon . Lady ' s first point , she be right about the degree of malnutrition , and that be why Britain be work closely with UNICEF and the World Food Programme . she set out the huge humanitarian consequence of a military attack on Rafah , and she will have see what the Prime Minister , Foreign Secretary and I have say about the danger of that . the possibility of an end to the killing — whatever we call it — bring hope in Gaza , Israel and , indeed , here , but I fear that division in our community will remain . many constituent have write to I upset at the difference they see in how palestinian life , palestinian dignity and Islamophobia be value in comparison with israeli life , israeli dignity and antisemitism . can the Minister go some way to perhaps address those concern by condemn , for example , the israeli Ministers and other who have rule out a palestinian state ? will he condemn the occupation , as well as settler violence ? will he condemn the israeli soldier who film themselves pose on the bicycle of dead Gazan child or rifle through the clothe of dead Gazan woman ? let I make it clear , as the Prime Minister have , that in our country there be no tolerance whatever for antisemitism or Islamophobia . I reiterate that at the hon . Lady ' s request across the Dispatch Box . she ask I about the importance of ensure that all life be treat equally and whether we care deeply about all those who be suffer in this conflict . let I assure the House that we do . in response to my many write question , the Government continue to say that they be keep arm export licence under review , include with regard to international humanitarian law , and they confirm that Ministers be able to amend , suspend or revoke licence as circumstance require . one of the licence currently in place allow L3Harris in my constituency to manufacture component for the kind of F - 35 fighter plane use by the Israel Defence Forces in Gaza . will the Minister publish the detail of any review that have take place ? will he tell we what threshold the Government be wait to be cross before they will suspend or revoke licence while there be a risk that they be be use to commit or to facilitate serious violation of international humanitarian law ? I will look into the burden of what the hon . Lady have say . if she table a write question on precisely that point today , I will give she the Government ' s answer . the situation in Rafah be at a critical juncture . disease and famine be set in , and million of Palestinians have nowhere else to go after be tell by the israeli Government to move south — the very place where the israeli Government be now threaten military action — for their own safety . so far , the israeli Government have remain belligerent in the face of international pressure to show restraint . beyond word of advice and to " express deep concern " — to quote the Minister — what will be the response from the British Government if Israel decide to launch a ground offensive in Rafah ? the hon . Lady ask a theoretical question . what I can tell she be that the british Government be work together with our ally through the United Nations , and our friend and contact throughout the region , to advance the situation in the way I set out in my statement . that be to try to ensure that there be a humanitarian pause , which enable we to get the hostage out and to get aid and humanitarian relief in , lead to a sustained ceasefire . that must be the right thing to seek to achieve , and that be what the Government will continue to attempt to do . it have be suggest that if what Israel have do in Gaza become the accept standard of self - defence , that core principle , which be mean to protect we all and be at the core of the international world order on which democracy be found , be greatly undermine . how do the Minister respond to that ? an unprecedented set of calamity have take place . I reiterate that Israel have the absolute right of self - defence but must remain within international humanitarian law . it be important to hang on to those principle as we navigate this catastrophe . like member across the House , I have have hundred of email from concerned constituent who be horrify by what they be see in Gaza — in particular , by scene in hospital where child have be operate on without anaesthetic . will the Minister outline what specific step the UK Government be take to ensure that people from Gaza can get the medical treatment they so badly need ? we be act at every level to achieve the result that the hon . Lady and I both want . that be see in : the work we be do internationally in the region to try to facilitate the entry of medicine ; our work with the jordanian Government to make air drop , which include medical equipment ; and our support for medical charity , some of which be base in Gaza . in every way , we be try to alleviate the suffering to which she so eloquently refer . as we approach the five - month mark of this horrific conflict , nearly 30 , 000 Palestinians have die and child in Gaza be die of starvation . diplomatic effort must yield result before thousand more die — it will be ten of thousand if the rafah offensive go ahead . do the Minister agree that time be of the essence and that , unless there be a ceasefire now , there will not be a deal to make ? the statement that the hon . Gentleman make and the question he ask I underline the importance of the international community and Britain work with our ally to double and redouble effort to ensure that we reach the situation that I have set out before the House on a number of occasion this afternoon . of course , an end to the threat of bombardment be the crucial step , but the humanitarian situation remain catastrophic . what specific assessment have UK official make of the allegation against the UN Relief and Works Agency with a view to properly fund that organisation , whose infrastructure and capacity be crucial to meet the basic everyday need of hundred of thousand of innocent man , woman and child ? the hon . Lady underline the centrality of UNRWA in Gaza . it have the necessary asset , which be essential for the delivery of aid and humanitarian relief . that be why we be urge the UN Office of Internal Oversight Services to produce an interim report look into the collusion that allegedly take place . as soon as we have that report , along with the report from the former french Foreign Minister , we will be able to make the necessary disposition not only about UNRWA but about how we get essential aid and support into Gaza . I call Sir Oliver Heald — [ interruption . ] my right hon . friend will be aware that the taking of hostage , and particularly civilian hostage , be consider an abomination . it be a war crime . do he agree that one of the thing that be drive the Israelis on be a desperate desire to get their people home and that anything that can be do diplomatically to try to make that happen — to get the hostage back — would really help the effort for peace ? my right hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right : the taking of hostage be an abomination . that be why we be do everything we can to ensure that the hostage be release , include the two british hostage and other with a close connection with the United Kingdom . he will have see the report both from Paris and from Qatar over the weekend , which indicate that every sinew be be bent to try to get the hostage back . order . I detect some unrest on the SNP Benches when I call the right hon . and learn Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Sir Oliver Heald ) . the right hon . and learn Gentleman have be here for the whole of the statement ; he choose to come in at this point and I give he permission to do so . there be absolutely nothing wrong with that . let we make certain that we adhere properly to the rule , as member know that I will . as we seek to tackle the rise in the evil of racism of all kind in our community in response to the tragedy unfolding in Israel and Gaza , be it not vital that we distinguish between , on the one hand , the awfulness of the Netanyahu regime and their outrageous action and , on the other hand , the decency of the israeli people and the right of Israel to exist ? yesterday , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) meet Yair Lapid , the leader of Yesh Atid , the liberal party of Israel . he be a former — and I hope future — Prime Minister of Israel who support a two - state solution and desire peace . be the Government keep in close contact with israeli opposition leader who seek a peaceful resolution ? the hon . Gentleman will have see that the Foreign Secretary have recently be in Israel , as have many other member of the Government , include the Attorney General . we have a close relationship with many people across the political spectrum in Israel . he will also be aware that Israel be a rumbustious democracy in a region where there be not many democracy , and there be divergence of view among senior people in Israel . that be reflect in what we hear from Israel today . I note the Minister ' s early remark on the topic , but Amnesty International UK be call for the UK Government to suspend the supply of arm to the israeli authority give that serious violation amount to crime under international law be be commit . will he accept the moral case for do that ? will he revisit his policy ? will he also recognise that the killing of 12 , 000 child do show clear evidence of collective punishment ? the early part of the hon . Lady ' s question underline the fact that these issue should not be resolve at the whim of Ministers but through the arm export Committee , which be both independent and legally advise . it be the tough regime in the world and Ministers should look to it for guidance , which we do . I hope the Minister will agree that there be clear consensus in this House that we want an end to the horror that we be see in Gaza and to the misery of the israeli family who be miss those take hostage . the Minister have make a great deal of the fact that a humanitarian pause be all that can be achieve , but that it can be a route to a ceasefire . we be hear promise noise from the talk that there may be a pause in hostility . while that be not enough , can the Minister assure we that our Government will do everything they can to reflect the will of this place and the people we represent in pursue an end to the horror in Gaza and the long - term establishment of a two - state solution in the middle east ? I can assure the hon . Lady . her point underline the degree of agreement rather than disagreement across this House . she say that the Government believe that a pause be all that can be achieve , but that be not the case . the Government believe that a pause will enable we to get the hostage out and aid and support in . it be part of the journey towards a sustainable ceasefire . it be certainly not all that we believe can be achieve , but it be necessary for the other thing that we want to achieve . this weekend it be report that the Government be finally start to withdraw support for the israeli military , suspend assistance for Israeli F - 35 fighter jet and helicopter at RAF Akrotiri in Cyprus , and cancel a plan joint exercise over the Negev desert . but British - make arm be still be sell to the israeli military , include part for F - 35 jet . first , can the Minister tell the House on what basis the Government have suspend the aforementioned military assistance , and secondly and relate to that , will he heed the call from UN expert on Friday , who say that arm export to Israel must be suspend immediately in the light of the ICJ ruling on Israel ' s plausible violation of the genocide convention ? I have set out not only the principle by which Britain address the issue of arm export but the practice of what we be do in this situation . I be afraid I have nothing to add to what I have already say on that matter . the Minister have quite rightly remind we that , as a matter of international humanitarian law , Israel have the right to defend itself against any aggressor . he also point out that that right must be exercise in compliance with international humanitarian law . could he clarify the Government ' s understanding of those specific condition ? will he confirm that self - defence can not justify attack on a civilian population who pose no threat to anyone ? will he also confirm that self - defence do not apply to military action that be clearly disproportionate or , as President Biden say last week , over the top ? in respect of the hon . Gentleman ' s latter question , the position be cover by what I have make clear from the start of this statement : Israel have the right of self - defence under international law , but it must be conduct within international humanitarian law . that be that context that I have reiterate , and it answer his latter two question . yesterday , the UN report that very little humanitarian aid have enter Gaza this month , have reduce by 50 % compare with January . the commissioner - general say that the obstacle to aid get in be a lack of political will , regular closing of the two crossing point , and insecurity due to military operation and the collapse of civil order . with increase hunger and disease in Gaza , why do the Minister not agree with I and my constituent that we need an immediate humanitarian ceasefire , or be there a lack of political will by his Government for that , too ? we be work towards precisely that — a humanitarian pause upon which we can build . on get extra food and support , the hon . Lady will have see that we have be work closely with Jordan and the World Food Programme on convoy that have leave the Jordan border . we be do everything we can , use our taxpayer ' money and our humanitarian expertise , to drive forward the common aim that she and I both wish to achieve . arm sale from the Netherlands to Israel have be halt after the Netherlands court find that there be a clear risk that component be use to commit or facilitate serious violation of international humanitarian law . the court highlight evidence of Israel ' s deliberate , disproportionate and indiscriminate attack , failure to warn civilian and incriminate statement by israeli commander and soldier . do that clear court ruling not make a nonsense of the Minister ' s claim that the UK have the tough arm export licence control in the world ? if the UK do not stop sell arm to Israel , will it not also be complicit in breach of humanitarian law ? I do not agree with that analysis . we have to look at the small print of how our arm export restriction and operation work in order to see that that be not the case . I have set out clearly the way in which the arm export regime work , and I be afraid I have nothing to add . Palestinians desperately need aid , so which organisation be the Government work with to replace the humanitarian effort of the UN Relief and Works Agency while it be unfunded , especially if there be a ceasefire or pause ? can he assure the House that not a penny of UK funding be still reach the hand of the terrorist who commit the October atrocity , and who still hold 134 hostage ? UNRWA be not unfunded . as I set out , Britain have fund it until the next financial year . I set out how other country be also produce the necessary funding . the hon . Gentleman ask who else we work with apart from UNRWA : we work very closely with UNICEF , the World Food Programme and the Egyptian Red Crescent , as I see on my relatively recent visit to Cairo . we continue to explore every possible way , not just through UNRWA , of get aid and support into Gaza . the Government continue to be selective when they deploy the language of war crime to different conflict around the world . notably , it be use in Ukraine freely , but not in reference to what be happen in Gaza . in refuse to endorse the interim ruling of the International Court of Justice , what assessment have the Minister make of the wide implication for rule - base international order ? surely , if international law be to have value , it must be apply universally not selectively . Britain have be at the heart of build the international rule - base system since 1946 . the hon . Gentleman should give credit to that . when it come to the different conflict to which he allude , the british Government have a uniform way of support international humanitarian law , support the rule of war and do everything we can to stand up for the international rule - base system . the UN have say this week that a famine stalk Gaza , especially in the north where aid have not reach people since more than a month ago , on 23 January . the UN have confirm that its inquiry into UNRWA will not report until 20 April . on a number of occasion the Minister have say that the issue of funding do not arise until the next financial year , so if we reach the next financial year and the report have not be issue , how will the Government decide whether we should re - fund UNRWA , and what evidence have they see directly to suggest that we should not fund it now ? the hon . member be right on the timing of the report by the UN Office of Internal Oversight Services , but we be hope for an interim report and the report of the former french Foreign Minister to inform any decision that we make . it be important to make clear that UNRWA have sufficient fund to get it to the end of March at least , thank to the action of Norway and Guyana . do the Minister agree with the International Court of Justice finding that there be a plausible risk that Israel have be commit genocide against the palestinian people , and just what will his government do about it ? it be hard to overestimate the offence cause by the extraordinary rhetoric of accuse Israel of be guilty of genocide , give the antecedent and event that take place in the holocaust during the war and the fact that more jewish people be murder on that one day of 7 October than at any time since the end of the second world war . it be now one month since the International Court of Justice rule that there be a plausible risk that Israel ' s action in Gaza be in breach of the genocide convention . since then , 3 , 000 more Palestinians have be kill , food and essential aid be still be prevent from get into Gaza , and now Israel be threaten to invade Rafah . give Israel ' s obvious breach of the Court ' s legally bind ruling , what conversation have the Foreign Office have with the Trade Secretary about suspend arm sale to Israel , and should that not now be what be happen ? whether right or wrong , the analysis that the hon . Gentleman put before the House underline the importance of the initiative that Britain have take , and the work that be be do both regionally and internationally at the United Nations , to try to secure a sustainable ceasefire through a pause so that we can get the hostage out and also get necessary support and humanitarian aid in . I hope that he will share with I a common view that , on drive forward those initiative , the five - point plan that have be set out so clearly by the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary be the right way to address the very serious difficulty to which he allude . we have hear many time about Israel ' s right to defend itself . in fact , the Minister start his statement by reiterate Israel ' s right to defend itself . on Sunday evening in Gaza City , the Israel Defence Forces fire on Palestinians who be wait for food aid truck to arrive . ten be kill . do the Minister believe that that be a legitimate act of self - defence ? unlike the other force involve in this dreadful conflict , israeli soldier and member of the IDF be teach , as part of their basic training , about international humanitarian law . as I mention , there be lawyer embed in the military force as they make decision on action . that be not something that we see in other force in the region and non - state actor . although all death be to be regret , we underline that international humanitarian law be very clear that all party must respect it . we be deeply concerned about the lack of humanitarian access , and we be deeply concerned about the protection of civilian . as I set out in my early remark , we believe that last week ' s Government amendment , which be not move but be table , outline a set of circumstance that everyone across the House should be able to support . that conclude proceeding on the statement . we have take rather long than usual for a statement , but I have deliberately allow this matter to run on , to make sure that everybody who wish to have their voice hear be hear . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in response to a question from the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) , the Minister say that the arm export Committee do its work effectively . however , that Committee , formerly know as the Committees on Arms Export Controls , no long exist . it last meet publicly in December 2022 , and last month its responsibility be transfer to the Business and Trade Committee , which will scrutinise arm export alongside a huge number of other matter . that mean that , contrary to what the Minister suggest , this House no long have a Committee specifically focus on scrutinise arm export . what advice can you give I on ensure that the Government take seriously the scrutiny of arm export , give the Minister ' s apparent lack of understanding ? the hon . Lady know that that be not a point of order for the Chair but a continuation of the discussion . she ask for advice on how the matter might be draw to the Government ' s attention ; I think I can call on the Minister to make a point far to that point of order . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the structure of these matter be approve by the House of Commons . the regime be clear , no matter where responsibility for it sit — and it be , I believe , among the tough to be find anywhere in the world . that conclude matter on this subject . high Education ( Student Finance and Skills Shortages ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to publish proposal for a scheme in which graduate of specified university course may be exempt from requirement to repay a student loan , in full or in part , provide that they be employ in the United Kingdom in a relevant sector for a minimum time period ; and for connected purpose . with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , before I start , I would like to take the opportunity to echo Mr Speaker ' s condolence to family and friend on the passing of Lord Patrick Cormack . he be in this place for 40 year and be bear in Great Grimsby , my constituency . it be my belief that good - quality legislation aim at educational reform should not only encourage rise level of attainment in both education and skill , but be design to develop the workforce of the future . there have be numerous skill gap and skill mismatch report over the past few year , and the path be clear for we to review how high education — particularly undergraduate and postgraduate funding police — can ensure that the Government provide excellent public service in the UK that help to keep the country healthy , improve productivity and grow the economy . before I become an MP , I work in further and high education for 22 year , and I believe that I have an insight into what motivate student to study to degree level and beyond . in my opinion , in too many case , the current funding regime encourage people to study at degree level when it be not suit to the student ' s skill and ability or future career path . that be because we live with the effect of new Labour ' s high educational reform and , in particular , the way that the student loan system work . the policy of increase the percentage of people who go to university , regardless of what they study , have lead to a huge growth in poor - quality degree that have little academic rigour ; the loss of excellent vocational high education course , such as high national diploma , which be directly relevant to the sector they be aim at ; and a graduate skill mismatch in the UK that be now so large that we import thousand of graduate from abroad , which mean that other country lose their highly skilled graduate to the UK . in addition , if a UK graduate emigrate , we lose any taxpayer benefit from fund their course or receive their outstanding student fee . the Learning and Work Institute have indicate that the UK skill shortage will cost the country £ 120 billion by 2030 , and that there will be a shortfall of appropriately 2 . 5 million skilled worker in our economy . the annual cost to the Treasury of funding undergraduate and postgraduate course in England alone be estimate at £ 20 billion . graduate be expect to start pay a proportion of their tuition fee and maintenance grant , which be mean - test , only once they earn an annual income over a threshold that range between £ 21 , 000 and £ 27 , 660 . we need a new student loan system that will incentivise student to study the degree that we need , rather than a proliferation of degree that do not give the country or the individual any add value and also delay that individual ' s entry into a productive career . research finding from the Institute for Fiscal Studies and MoneySuperMarket show that UK student debt amount to more than £ 100 billion , and be project to hit £ 1 . 2 trillion by 2049 . currently only 27 % of all graduate pay back their student loan in full , and 83 % be project never to do so . the IFS also estimate that 20 % of student would have be well off if they have not go to university , which prove that their degree do not add value to their career . the Open University ' s 2023 " Business Barometer " report show that despite our have a large graduate workforce than ever before , 83 % of large organisation face a skill shortage in their workforce . moreover , 2023 datum from the British Medical Association suggest that 7 % of doctor who train for employment in the NHS leave after complete their foundation year . that mean a loss of £ 220 , 000 per student doctor , cost the taxpayer £ 146 million a year . the Government offer bursary for doctor and dentist in the final year of their study to help they with tuition fee and living cost , but at that stage they be already earn a wage . this be a back - to - front funding model that do not help we to recruit doctor and dentist to the NHS and maintain they there . there be also gap in a wide range of other public sector service . our local authority , for instance , lack social worker , speech and language therapist and physiotherapist . let I suggest a solution . I should like the Secretary of State for Education to investigate the possibility of introduce what I be call the British GradForce agreement . the model would be similar to a system that have work well for decade in the armed force : candidate can apply for scholarship and bursary fund by the relevant armed force , on the understanding that they will then complete a minimum term in order to pay back to the country , in year of service , the investment that the taxpayer have make in they . candidate who drop out or be remove before the end of that period be generally expect to pay back not only the bursary but their training cost . the system benefit capable and commit student from more disadvantaged background , reward they with no debt in return for their public service . the Government should use their publish skill shortage research to create a public sector graduate skill shortage list , so that public sector employer could accredit course that be directly link to skill shortage in particular role . the course would need to meet the quality threshold require by organisation such as the Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education and professional body . university run those course could then apply for they to be accredit by the Government , make they eligible for the British GradForce agreement funding policy . student apply for and then start to study on the relevant course could opt to sign an agreement , in which they commit themselves to complete their study to the require employment standard , and to work in the relevant sector for the specify timescale appropriate to their course . in return for that service commitment , the Government could choose to write off their student loan fee , up to a maximum amount , over the specify length of service in that profession . we need a policy that incentivise student to choose the degree that the country need by differentiate the funding model for those degree from those for all other type of degree . the change I be propose could have a positive and pivotal effect on the high education sector . they could encourage student to choose the course that the country need , reduce the debt burden of those student , be a well deal for the taxpayer , and help to improve growth and productivity . I hope that the Secretary of State can investigate the possibility of such a policy . question put and agree to . order , that Lia Nici , Sally Ann Hart , Tom Hunt , Miriam Cates and Martin Vickers present the Bill . Lia Nici accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 April , and to be print ( Bill 168 ) . Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee [ relevant document : Twelfth Report of the Communities and Local Government Committee of Session 2017 - 19 , Leasehold Reform , HC 1468 , and the Government response , CP 99 . ] New Clause 26 - lta 1985 : crown application " ( 1 ) before section 40 of the LTA 1985 insert — " 39a crown application Sections 18 to 30p , and the Schedule , bind the Crown . " ( 2 ) in section 172 of the CLRA 2002 ( application to Crown of certain provision ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , omit paragraph ( a ) ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 3 ) . " . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after clause 41 , would move provision about Crown application of the LTA 1985 currently in the CLRA 2002 into the LTA 1985 , and clarify that the relevant provision bind the Crown whether or not they relate to Crown land . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 27 — Part 4 : crown application . government new clause 28 — redress scheme : no Crown status . government new clause 29 — part 5 : amendment to other act . government new clause 30 — step relate to remediation of defect . government new clause 31 — remediation order . government new clause 32 — remediation contribution order . government new clause 33 — Recovery of legal cost etc through service charge . government new clause 34 — repeal of section 125 of the BSA 2022 . government new clause 35 — high - risk and relevant building : notification in connection with insolvency . government new clause 42 — Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house . government new clause 43 — long residential lease of house . government new clause 44 — Leases which have a long term . government new clause 45 — Series of lease whose term would extend beyond 21 year . government new clause 46 — Houses . government new clause 47 — residential lease . government new clause 48 — permit lease . government new clause 49 — permit lease : certification by the appropriate tribunal . government new clause 50 — permit lease : marketing restriction . government new clause 51 — permit lease : transaction warning condition . government new clause 52 — prescribed statement in new long lease . government new clause 53 — restriction on title . government new clause 54 — redress : right to acquire a freehold or superior leasehold estate . government new clause 55 — redress : application of the right to acquire . government new clause 56 — redress : general provision . government new clause 57 — redress regulation : exercise and give effect to the right to acquire . government new clause 58 — enforcement by trading standard authority . government new clause 59 — financial penalty . government new clause 60 — financial penalty : cross - border enforcement . government new clause 61 — lead enforcement authority . government new clause 62 — general duty of lead enforcement authority . government new clause 63 — enforcement by lead enforcement authority . government new clause 64 — further power and duty of enforcement authority . government new clause 65 — power to amend : permit lease and definition . government new clause 66 — Interpretation of Part A1 . new clause 1 — estate management service — " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation provide for resident of manage dwelling to take ownership , at nominal cost , of — ( a ) an estate management company , or ( b ) the asset of an estate management company , or other company or business connect with the development or management of the dwelling , which be use to provide service to manage dwelling if the estate management company or connected company or business do not — ( i ) provide the resident of the manage dwelling with a copy of its budget for the forthcoming year and account for the past year ; ( ii ) give sufficient notice to enable resident to attend its annual meeting ; ( iii ) acknowledge correspondence send by register post to its register office within a reasonable length of time . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may amend primary legislation . " new clause 2 — estate management : compensation — " ( 1 ) this section apply where the first and second condition be meet . ( 2 ) the first condition be that it would not be reasonable for the resident of a property to continue to occupy that property as their primary residence due to a defect which the estate manager — ( a ) be responsible for remedying , or ( b ) could reasonably have foresee would arise . ( 3 ) the second condition be that — ( a ) the defect be the direct result of action take or not take by the estate manager , or ( b ) the estate manager have fail to remedy the defect within a reasonable period of time . ( 4 ) the estate manager must — ( a ) provide compensation to the resident of the property equal to any reasonable financial loss they incur as a result of the defect , or ( b ) provide suitable alternative accommodation for the duration of the period for which this section apply . ( 5 ) no cost incur by an estate manager as a consequence of this section may be recoup from the estate in question through an estate management charge . " this new clause would allow estate resident to claim compensation or alternative accommodation where it be not reasonable for they to remain in their home due to defect cause , or leave unremedied for an unreasonable length of time , by an estate manager . new clause 3 — prohibition on landlord claim litigation cost from tenant — " ( 1 ) any term of a long lease of a dwelling which provide a right for a landlord to demand litigation cost from a leaseholder ( whether as a service charge , administration charge or otherwise ) be of no effect . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , specify class of landlord to which or prescribe circumstance in which subsection ( 1 ) do not apply . ( 3 ) in this section — " administration charge " have the meaning give by Schedule 11 of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2022 ; " dwell " mean a building or part of a building occupy or intend to be occupy as a separate dwelling , together with any yard , garden , or outhouse and appurtenance belong to it or usually enjoy with it ; " long lease " have the meaning give by section 76 and 77 of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 ; " service charge " have the meaning give by section 18 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 ; " landlord " have the meaning give by section 30 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 . " this new clause would prohibit landlord from claim litigation cost from tenant other than under limited circumstance determine by the Secretary of State . new clause 4 — Remedies for the recovery of annual sum charge on land — " ( 1 ) section 121 of the Law of Property Act 1925 be omit . ( 2 ) the amendment make by subsection ( 1 ) have effect in relation to arrear arise before or after the come into force of this section . " this new clause , which be intend to replace clause 59 , would remove the provision of exist law which , among other thing , allow a rentcharge owner to take possession of a freehold property in instance where a freehold homeowner fail to pay a rentcharge . new clause 5 — abolition of forfeiture of a long lease — " ( 1 ) this section apply to any right of forfeiture or re - entry in relation to a dwelling hold on a long lease which arise either — ( a ) under the term of that lease ; or ( b ) under or in consequence of section 146 ( 1 ) of the Law of Property Act 1925 . ( 2 ) the right refer to in subsection ( 1 ) be abolish . ( 3 ) in this section — " dwell " mean a building or part of a building occupy or intend to be occupy as a separate dwelling , together with any yard , garden , or outhouse and appurtenance belong to it or usually enjoy with it ; " lease " mean a lease at law or in equity and include a sub - lease , but do not include a mortgage term ; " long lease " have the meaning give by section 76 and 77 of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 . " this new clause would abolish the right of forfeiture in relation to residential long lease in instance where the leaseholder be in breach of covenant . new clause 6 — requirement to establish and operate a management company under leaseholder control — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision — ( a ) require any long lease of a dwelling to include a resident management company ( " rmc " ) as a party to that lease , and ( b ) for that company to discharge under the long lease such management function as may be prescribe by the regulation . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must provide — ( a ) for the RMC to be a company limit by share ( with each share to have a value not to exceed £ 1 ) , and ( b ) for such share to be allocate ( for no consideration ) to the leaseholder of the dwelling for the time be . ( 3 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must prescribe the content and form of the article of association of an RMC . ( 4 ) the content and form of article prescribe in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) have effect in relation to an rmc whether or not such article be adopt by the company . ( 5 ) a provision of the article of an RMC have no effect to the extent that it be inconsistent with the content or form of article prescribe in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) . ( 6 ) section 20 of the Companies Act 2006 ( default application of model article ) do not apply to an rmc . ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make such provision as the Secretary of State see fit for the enforcement of regulation make under subsection ( 1 ) , and such provision may ( among other thing ) include provision — ( a ) confer power on the First - Tier Tribunal to order that lease be varied to give effect to this section ; ( b ) provide for term to be imply into lease without the need for any order of any court or tribunal . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation prescribe description of building in respect of which regulation may be make under subsection ( 1 ) . ( 9 ) in this section — " dwell " mean a building or part of a building occupy or intend to be occupy as a separate dwelling , together with any yard , garden , or outhouse and appurtenance belong to it or usually enjoy with it ; " long lease " have the meaning give by section 76 and 77 of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 ; " management function " have the meaning give by section 96 ( 5 ) of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 . ( 10 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend the definition of " management function " for the purpose of this section . " this new clause would ensure that lease on new flat include a requirement to establish and operate a resident ' management company responsible for all service charge matter , with each leaseholder give a share . new clause 7 — power to establish a right to manage regime for freeholder on private or mixed - use estate — " in section 71 of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision to enable freeholder owner of dwelling to exercise a right to manage in a way which correspond with or be similar to this Part . ( 4 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 3 ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " " this new clause would permit the Secretary of State to establish a right to manage regime for freeholder of residential property on private or mixed - use estate . new clause 8 — regulation of property agent — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must by regulation make provision for implement the proposal of the Regulation of Property Agents Working Group final report of July 2019 as far as they relate to — ( a ) estate management ; ( b ) sale of leasehold property ; and ( c ) sale of freehold property subject to estate management or service charge . ( 2 ) regulation under this section — ( a ) must be lay within 24 month of the date of Royal Assent to this Act , ( b ) shall be make by statutory instrument , and ( c ) may not be make unless a draft have be lay before and approve by resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 3 ) if , at the end of the period of 12 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass , the power in subsection ( 1 ) be yet to be exercise , the Secretary of State must publish a report set out the progress that have be make towards do so . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to make regulation to implement the proposal of the Regulation of Property Agents Working Group final report within 24 month of the Act come into force and to report on progress to that end at the end of the period of 12 month . new clause 9 — qualifying lease for the purpose of the remediation of build defect — " Section 119 of the Building Safety Act 2022 be amend by the insertion after subsection ( 4 ) of the following — " ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , amend subsection ( 2 ) so as to bring additional description of lease within the definition of " qualify lease " . " " this new clause would give the Secretary of State the power to bring " non qualify " leaseholder within the scope of the protection of the Building Safety Act 2022 . new clause 10 — mean of " relevant building " for the purpose of the remediation of build defect — " section 117 of the Building Safety Act 2022 be amend by the insertion after subsection ( 6 ) of the following — " ( 7 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , amend subsection ( 2 ) so as to bring additional description of building within the definition of " relevant building " . " " this new clause would give the Secretary of State the power to bring building which be under 11 m in height or have few than four storey within the scope of the protection of the Building Safety Act 2022 . new clause 11 — report on provide leaseholder in flat with a share of the freehold — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish a report outline legislative option to ensure that all qualify tenant in newly - construct residential property contain two or more flat have a proportionate share of the freehold of their property . ( 2 ) the report must be lay before Parliament within three month of the commencement of this Act . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to publish a report outline legislative option to provide leaseholder in flat with a share of the freehold . new clause 12 — proportion of qualifying tenant require for a notice of claim to acquire right to manage — " section 79 of the CLRA 2002 be amend , in subsection ( 5 ) , by leave out " one - half " and insert " 35 % " . " this new clause would reduce the proportion of qualifying tenant who must be member of a propose right to manage company for a claim to be make from one - half to 35 % . new clause 13 — prohibition on new leasehold home — " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation prohibit the sale of any new leasehold home . ( 2 ) regulation under this section — ( a ) shall be make by statutory instrument , ( b ) may not be make unless a draft have be lay before and approve by resolution of each House of Parliament ; and ( c ) may amend primary legislation . " new clause 14 — premise to which leasehold right to manage apply — " section 72 of the CLRA 2002 be amend in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , by the addition at the end of the word " or of any other building or part of a building which be reasonably capable of be manage independently . " " this new clause which be an amendment to the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 adopt the Law Commission ' s Recommendation 5 in its right to manage report which would allow leaseholder in mixed - use building with share service or underground car park to exercise the right to manage . new clause 15 — meaning of " accountable person " for the purpose of the Building Safety Act 2022 — " ( 1 ) section 72 of the Building Safety Act 2022 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . ( 2 ) after subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) , insert — " ( c ) all repair obligation relate to the relevant common part which would otherwise be obligation of the estate owner be function of a manager appoint under section 24 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 in relation to the building or any part of the building . " ( 3 ) in subsection ( 6 ) , in the definition of " relevant repair obligation " , after " enactment " , insert " or by virtue of an order appoint a manager make under section 24 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 " . ( 4 ) section 24 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 5 ) . ( 5 ) omit subsection ( 2E ) . " this new clause would provide for a manager appoint under section 24 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 to be the " accountable person " for a high - risk building . new clause 16 — Commencement of section 156 of the CLRA 2002 — " ( 1 ) section 181 of the CLRA 2002 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , after " 104 " insert " , section 156 " . ( 3 ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) section 156 come into force at the end of the period of two month begin with the day on which the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 be pass . " " this new clause would bring into force a requirement of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 that service charge contribution be hold in designate account . new clause 17 — Eligibility for enfranchisement — " ( 1 ) the LHRUDA 1993 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 3 — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) , after third " building " , insert " , or could be separate out by way of the granting of a mandatory leaseback on the non - residential premise to the outgoing freeholder " ; ( b ) after sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) ( ii ) , insert " or ( iii ) be reasonably capable of be manage independently or be already subject to separate management arrangement ; " ( 3 ) in section 4 ( 1 ) ( a ) ( ii ) , after " premise ; " , insert " nor ( iii ) reasonably capable of be separate out by way of the granting of a mandatory leaseback and reasonably capable of be manage independently from the residential premise ; " " this new clause would ensure that leaseholder in mixed - use block with share service with commercial occupier would qualify to buy their freehold . new clause 18 — right to manage : procedure follow an application to the appropriate tribunal — " ( 1 ) the CLRA 2002 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 84 , insert — " 84a Procedure follow an application to the appropriate tribunal ( 1 ) where an application be make to the appropriate tribunal under section 84 ( 3 ) for a determination that an RTM company be on the relevant date entitle to acquire the right to manage the premise , the Tribunal may , if satisfy that it be reasonable to do so , dispense with — ( a ) service of any notice invite participation ; ( b ) service of any notice of claim ; ( c ) any of the requirement in the provision set out in subsection ( 2 ) ; or ( d ) any requirement of any regulation make under this part of this Act . ( 2 ) subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) apply to the follow provision of this Act — ( a ) section 73 ; ( b ) section 74 ; ( c ) section 78 ; ( d ) section 79 ; ( e ) section 80 ; ( f ) section 81 . " " this new clause would provide the appropriate tribunal with the discretion to dispense with certain procedural requirement where it be satisfied that it be reasonable to do so . it be design to deal with case where a landlord attempt to frustrate an RTM claim by procedural mean . new clause 19 — service charge : consultation requirement — " ( 1 ) the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 20za , after subsection ( 1 ) , insert — " ( 1A ) " reasonable " for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) be a matter of fact for the tribunal , which — ( a ) may or may not consider the matter of relevant prejudice to the tenant . if prejudice be to be consider the burden be on the landlord to demonstrate a lack of prejudice or to prove the degree of prejudice ; ( b ) must include consideration of the objective of increase transparency and accountability , and the promotion of professional estate management , as well as of ensure that leaseholder be protect from pay for inappropriate work or pay more than would be appropriate ; ( c ) must consider the dignity and investment of the tenant , who should be treat as a core participant in the process of service charge decision ; ( d ) must have regard to the tenant ' s legitimate interest in a meaningful consultation process , bear in mind that minor or technical breach may not impinge on the tenant ' s interest , nor prejudice the tenant ; ( e ) at its discretion may or may not consider a reconstruction of the ' what if ' situation , analyse what would have happen have the consultation be follow properly . the landlord be liable for the cost of such a reconstruction . " " this new clause would set matter for the tribunal to consider when decide whether to dispense with all or any of the requirement for landlord to consult tenant in relation to any major work . new clause 20 — build insurance and section 39 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 — " a landlord may not manage or arrange insurance for their building under the protection of section 39 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 . " this new clause preclude a landlord from operate as an appoint representative under the licence of Broker , where the landlord have no such licence themselves . new clause 21 — collective enfranchisement : removal of prohibition on participation — " ( 1 ) section 5 of the LRHUDA 1993 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) omit subsection ( 5 ) and ( 6 ) . " this new clause would implement recommendation 41 of the Law Commission ' s report on enfranchisement , that the prohibition on leaseholder of three or more flat in a building be qualify tenant for the purpose of a collective enfranchisement claim should be abolish . new clause 22 — lease for new dwelling : default length — " ( 1 ) where a lease be a regulated lease , it must be issue with a lease term of at least 990 year . ( 2 ) in this section — " regulated lease " mean a lease which meet the follow condition — ( a ) it be a long lease of a single dwelling ; ( b ) it be grant for a premium ; ( c ) it be grant on or after the relevant commencement day but not in pursuance of a contract make before that day ; and ( d ) when it be grant , it be not an excepted lease . the " relevant commencement day " be 1 January 2025 . " this new clause would ensure that all lease create for new flat follow 1 January 2025 come with a default length of 990 - year , bring the position of future private sector lease into line with the exist requirement under Home England ' s new model share ownership lease New clause 23 — report on disadvantage suffer by exist leaseholder — " ( 1 ) within 12 month of this Act receive Royal Assent , the Secretary of State must commission an independent evaluation of the matter set out in subsection ( 2 ) and must lay the report of the evaluation before Parliament . ( 2 ) the matter be the extent to which a tenant who have extend their lease or purchase the freehold of their property after 27 November 2023 but prior to this Act receive Royal Assent ( Tenant A ) be disadvantage in comparison to a tenant who have extend their lease or purchase the freehold of their property after this Act receive Royal Assent ( Tenant B ) . ( 3 ) the report must take account of the follow factor — ( a ) marriage value ; ( b ) the legal cost likely to be incur by the freeholder ; and ( c ) any charge for which Tenant A would be liable but Tenant B would not . ( 4 ) the report must make recommendation to redress any significant disparity between the cost for which Tenant A would be liable but Tenant B would not . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation give effect to any recommendation make in the evaluation . ( 6 ) regulation under this section — ( a ) shall be make by statutory instrument ; and ( b ) may not be make unless a draft have be lay before and approve by resolution of each House of Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to commission an independent evaluation of any disadvantage face by a tenant who have extend their lease or purchase the freehold of their property after the introduction of this Bill but prior to it receive Royal Assent . new clause 24 — asbestos remediation — " ( 1 ) the Leasehold Reform , Housing and Urban Development Act 1993 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 37b , insert — " 37c asbestos remediation ( 1 ) this section apply where a claim to exercise the right to collective enfranchisement in respect of any premise be make by tenant of dwelling contain in the premise and the claim be effective . ( 2 ) not less than 3 month before the effective date of the enfranchisement , the landlord must cause a structural survey of the premise to be undertake by an accredited professional to ascertain whether asbestos be , or be liable to be , present in those part of the premise which the landlord be responsible for maintain . ( 3 ) where the survey require by subsection ( 2 ) reveal the presence of asbestos , the landlord must , at the landlord ' s cost , arrange for its safe removal . ( 4 ) if the removal of asbestos require by subsection ( 3 ) be not carry out before the responsibility for maintain the affected part transfer to another person under the claim to exercise the right of collective enfranchisement , the landlord be liable for the cost of its removal . " " new clause 25 — right to statutory compensation when landlord alter premise — " ( 1 ) this section apply when both of the following condition be satisfied — ( a ) the first condition be that there be premise in which at least one dwelling be let on a long lease to a person ( " t " ) ; and ( b ) the second condition be that the landlord or any superior landlord ( " L " ) under t ' s long lease undertake substantial development to the premise contain t ' s dwelling . ( 2 ) when both of the condition mention in subsection ( 1 ) be satisfied , L must pay to t compensation reflect the disruption cause by the substantial development . ( 3 ) the compensation due from L to t under subsection ( 2 ) be to be calculate and pay by L to t at a time and in a manner accord to regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) notwithstanding any term of any agreement to the contrary , whether the agreement be make before or after the come into force of this section — ( a ) t may set - off any part of any compensation due from l but not pay by L in accordance with this section against any service charge demand by L ; and ( b ) L may not exercise or omit to exercise any right , or otherwise take any step , to prejudice t as a result of any set - off exercise by t in accordance with this section . ( 5 ) the County Court have jurisdiction to determine any dispute regard compensation payable under this section . ( 6 ) regulation under this section — ( a ) be to be make by statutory instrument ; ( b ) may make provision generally or only in relation to specific case ; ( c ) may make different provision for different purpose ; ( d ) may include supplementary , incidental , transitional or save provision . ( 7 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section be subject to the negative procedure . ( 8 ) in this section — " long lease " have the same meaning have the same meaning as in chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 ( see section 76 and 77 of that Act ) ; " service charge " have the same meaning as in section 18 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 ( as amend by this Act ) ; " substantial development " mean demolish , reconstruct or carry out substantial work of construction on , the whole or a substantial part of the premise . " this new clause be propose after clause 21 . it would require landlord who extend or alter building to pay statutory compensation to residential leaseholder in that building , for example when add new storey under permit development right . residential leaseholder would have the right to set - off this compensation against service charge if landlord do not pay . new clause 36 — code of management practice : requirement to adhere — " in section 87 of the LRHUDA 1993 ( code of management practice ) — ( a ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) if — ( a ) the Secretary of State have not approve a code or code of practice which appear to he to promote desirable practice in relation to all necessary matter concerned with the management of residential property by relevant person within three month of the passage of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , or ( b ) as a consequence of the withdrawal of his approval of a code or modification under subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) it appear to he that code of practice in relation to all necessary matter be no long in place , he must draw up a code or modification in relation to such matter as he consider necessary and treat that code , or those modification , as if submit to he under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) ( ii ) . " ( b ) in subsection ( 7 ) — ( i ) omit the word " not of itself " , and ( ii ) for " but " , substitute " and " . " this new clause would amend section 87 of the Leasehold Reform , Housing and Urban Development Act 1993 so as to make the code of practice allow for under that section mandatory ( paragraph ( b ) ) , and to require the Secretary of State to ensure that such code of practice be in place ( paragraph ( a ) ) . new clause 37 — qualification in property management — " in section 87 of the LRHUDA 1993 ( code of management practice ) , after subsection ( 6 ) , insert — " ( 6a ) a code of practice approve under this section must require a person who discharge management function in respect of residential property to hold a relevant qualification in property management . " " this new clause , together with NC36 , would require any person who discharge management function in respect of residential property to hold a relevant qualification in property management . new clause 38 — information to be give to prospective purchaser of leasehold residential property — " in the LTA 1985 , after section 30p ( as insert by section 40 ) insert — " information to be give to prospective purchaser of leasehold residential property 30q information to be give to prospective purchaser of leasehold residential property ( 1 ) the landlord must ensure that any person purchase the lease of a dwelling be provide at the point of purchase with a copy of the Government guidance entitle " how to Lease " , as it may be update from time to time . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , " landlord " have the same meaning as in section 30 k to 30n ( see section 30p ) . " " new clause 39 — right of first refusal on disposal of freehold home — " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation provide for the right of first refusal grant to qualify tenant of flat by Part 1 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 to be extend to tenant of freehold house . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) may amend primary legislation ; ( b ) be subject to the affirmative procedure ( but see subsection ( 3 ) ) . ( 3 ) if before approve a draft of regulation under subsection ( 1 ) both Houses of Parliament have agree amendment to that draft , the Secretary of State must make the regulation in the form of the draft as so amend . " new clause 40 — failure of landlord to respond to request for enfranchisement — " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must conduct a review of the problem face by tenant wish to exercise their right to enfranchisement whose landlord do not respond to enfranchisement request . ( 2 ) a report of the review must be lay before Parliament as soon as it have be complete . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation implement any recommendation of the review . ( 4 ) regulation under subsection ( 3 ) may amend primary legislation . " new clause 41 — report on disadvantage due to payment of marriage value — " ( 1 ) within 12 month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must commission an independent evaluation of the matter set out in subsection ( 2 ) and must lay the report of the evaluation before Parliament . ( 2 ) the matter be the extent to which a tenant who have be require to pay marriage value when extend their lease ( Tenant A ) be disadvantage in comparison to a tenant who have extend their lease after the passage of this Act ( Tenant B ) . ( 3 ) the report must — ( a ) make recommendation to redress any significant disparity between the marriage value cost for which Tenant A would be liable but Tenant B would not ; and ( b ) recommend the date after which Tenant A must have extend their lease in order to be eligible for any financial redress . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation give effect to any recommendation make in the evaluation . ( 5 ) regulation under this section — ( a ) be to be make by statutory instrument ; and ( b ) may not be make unless a draft have be lay before and approve by resolution of each House of Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to commission an independent evaluation of any disadvantage face by a tenant who have be require to pay marriage value when extend their lease in comparison to a tenant who have extend their lease after the passage of this Act and therefore not be require to pay marriage value . new clause 67 — liability of freeholder for central heating failure — " ( 1 ) within 12 month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must commission an independent evaluation of the matter set out in subsection ( 2 ) and must lay the report of the evaluation before Parliament . ( 2 ) the matter be , where there be a failure of a communal central heating system for which a freeholder be responsible which last for a minimum of 24 hour — ( a ) the extent to which a freeholder should be liable ; and ( b ) whether , if the freeholder be consider to some extent to be liable , financial penalty should be impose on the freeholder . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation give effect to any recommendation make in the evaluation . ( 4 ) regulation under this section — ( a ) be to be make by statutory instrument ; and ( b ) may not be make unless a draft have be lay before and approve by resolution of each House of Parliament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to commission an independent evaluation of the matter of hold freeholder financially liable for long - last central communal heating failure where the freeholder have a responsibility for upkeep . " new clause 68 — shared ownership — ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation create certain right and obligation for leaseholder and freeholder on all leasehold property which be subject to a shared ownership model create after 1967 . ( 2 ) the right refer to in subsection ( 1 ) be that any leaseholder have the right to increase their share of the freehold in the property in increment of either ten percent or 25 percent on give formal notice in write to the freeholder . ( 3 ) the obligation refer to in subsection ( 1 ) be that the freeholder may not charge a rent on their freehold share of the property which be great than 2 . 75 % of the market value of the share of the property which they hold . ( 4 ) right and obligation create by regulation under this section be to apply notwithstanding any legal agreement previously enter into between the leaseholder and the freeholder . " Amendment 3 , in clause 3 , page 2 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) after section 4 ( 5 ) of the LRHUDA 1993 , insert — " ( 6 ) the Secretary of State or the Welsh Ministers may by regulation amend this section to provide for a different description of premise fall within section 3 ( 1 ) to which this chapter do not apply . ( 7 ) Regulations may not be make under subsection ( 6 ) unless a draft of the regulation have be lay before , and approve by resolution of — ( a ) in the case of regulation make by the Secretary of State , both Houses of Parliament ; ( b ) in the case of regulation make by the Welsh Ministers , Senedd Cymru . " ( 3 ) in section 100 of the LRHUDA 1993 — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) , after " make " , insert " provision under section 4 ( 6 ) or " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) , after " make " , insert " provision under section 4 ( 6 ) or " . " this amendment would enable the Secretary of State or ( in the case of Wales ) the Welsh Ministers to change the description of premise which be exclude from collective enfranchisement right . such a change would be subject to the affirmative resolution procedure . government amendment 24 to 31 . amendment 6 , in clause 12 , page 16 , leave out from line 27 to line 20 on page 17 . this amendment would leave out the propose new section 19c of the Leasehold Reform Act 1967 , and so ensure that leaseholder be not liable to pay their landlord ' s non - litigation cost in case where a low value enfranchisement or extension claim be successful . government amendment 32 to 34 . amendment 7 , in clause 13 , page 22 , leave out line 1 to 29 . this amendment would leave out the propose new section 89c of the Leasehold Reform , Housing and Urban Development Act 1993 , and so ensure that leaseholder be not liable to pay their landlord ' s non - litigation cost in case where a low value enfranchisement or extension claim be successful . amendment 2 , in clause 14 , page 26 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( ja ) any matter arise under clause [ Estate management : compensation ] of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . " this be a pave amendment for NC2 . Amendment 1 , page 28 , line 11 , at end insert — " ( 8a ) when consider any matter under this section , the appropriate tribunal must have regard to previous decision make by an appropriate tribunal in matter which appear , to it , to be materially similar to the matter under consideration under this section . " this amendment would require tribunal consider case relate to leasehold to have regard to precedent set by previous decision of tribunal in similar case . government amendment 35 and 36 . amendment 17 , in clause 22 , page 39 , line 14 , leave out " 50 % " and insert " 75 % " . this amendment would allow leaseholder with a high proportion of commercial or non - residential space in their building to claim the right to manage . amendment 9 , in clause 23 , page 40 , leave out from the beginning of line 27 to the end of line 27 on page 41 . this amendment would leave out the propose new section 87b of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 and so ensure that RTM company can not incur cost in instance where claim cease . amendment 19 , in clause 29 , page 46 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( iii ) a statement of all transaction relate to any sink fund or reserve fund . " this amendment would require the write statement of account which the landlord will be require to provide to a tenant to include a statement of all transaction relate to any sink fund or reserve fund in which their monie be hold . amendment 12 , page 47 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( 8 ) where a landlord of any such premise fail to comply with the term imply into a lease by subsection ( 2 ) , any rent , service charge or administration charge otherwise due from the tenant to the landlord shall be treat for all purpose as not be due from the tenant to the landlord at any time before the landlord do comply with those subsection . " this amendment would require court and tribunal to treat the landlord ' s compliance with the imply term requirement for annual account and certification as a condition precedent to the lessee ' s obligation to pay their service charge . amendment 13 , page 48 , line 11 , at end insert — " ( 9 ) where a landlord fail to comply with subsection ( 1 ) , any rent , service charge or administration charge otherwise due from the tenant to the landlord shall be treat for all purpose as not be due from the tenant to the landlord at any time before the landlord do comply with that subsection . " this amendment would require court and tribunal to treat the landlord ' s compliance with the imply term requirement for annual account and certification as a condition precedent to the lessee ' s obligation to pay their service charge . amendment 14 , in clause 30 , page 50 , leave out line 12 to 19 and insert — " ( 4 ) p may not charge r any sum in excess of the prescribed amount in respect of the cost incur by p in do anything require under section 21f or this section . ( 5 ) the prescribed amount mean an amount specify in regulation by the appropriate authority ; and such regulation may prescribe different amount for different activity . ( 6 ) if p be a landlord , p may not charge the tenant for the cost of allow the tenant access to premise to inspect information ( but may charge for the making of copy ) . " this amendment would make the appropriate authority ( I . e . the Secretary of State or the Welsh Ministers ) responsible for set a prescribed amount for the cost of provide information to leaseholder . that prescribed amount would be the maximum amount that freeholder and manage agent employ by they could seek to recover through a service charge . amendment 15 , in clause 31 , page 51 , line 35 , leave out " £ 5 , 000 " and insert " £ 30 , 000 " . this amendment would raise the cap on damage under this section for a failure to comply with duty relate to service charge to £ 30 , 000 . amendment 16 , page 51 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) damage under this section must be at least £ 1 , 000 . " this amendment would insert a floor on damage under this section of £ 1 , 000 . amendment 20 , in clause 32 , page 52 , line 32 , leave out from begin to end of line 33 and insert — " ( a ) exceed the net rate charge by the insurance underwriter for the insurance cover , and " . this amendment would define an exclude insurance cost as any cost in excess of the actual charge make by the underwriter for place the risk , where such cost be not a permit insurance payment . amendment 21 , page 52 , line 35 , leave out from begin to end of line 6 on page 53 . this amendment , to leave out subsection ( 3 ) of the propose new section 20 g of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 , be consequential on Amendment 20 . amendment 22 , page 53 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) the regulation must specify a broker ' s reasonable remuneration at market rate as a permit insurance payment . ( 5b ) the regulation must exclude any payment which arise , directly or indirectly , from any breach of trust , fiduciary obligation or failure to act in the good interest of the tenant . " this amendment would require " permit insurance payment " to include payment of a reasonable sum to a broker at market rate for place the cover , and to exclude any payment which have arise from wrongdoing . amendment 10 , page 60 , line 2 , leave out clause 35 . government amendment 37 to 41 . amendment 18 , in clause 46 , page 75 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( c ) only where they be incur in the provision of service or the carrying out of work that would not ordinarily be provide by local authority . " this amendment would mean that service or work that would ordinarily be provide by local authority be not relevant cost for the purpose of estate management charge . government amendment 42 . amendment 83 , in clause 74 , page 97 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must publish guidance on the circumstance in which the Secretary of State will give financial assistance or make other payment under this section . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to publish guidance on the circumstance in which financial assistance would be make available for the establishment or maintenance of estate management redress scheme . government amendment 43 to 48 . amendment 11 , in page 104 , line 30 , leave out clause 83 . see explanatory statement to NC4 . government amendment 85 and 49 . government new schedule 1 — Part 5 : amendment to other act . government new schedule 2 — category of permit lease . government new schedule 3 — leasehold house : financial penalty . government amendment 50 to 53 . amendment 4 , in schedule 2 , page 136 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( 9 ) in set the deferment rate the Secretary of State must have regard to the desirability of encourage leaseholder to acquire their freehold at the low possible cost . " this amendment would ensure that when determine the applicable deferment rate , the Secretary of State would have to have regard to the desirability of encourage leaseholder to acquire their freehold at the low possible cost . amendment 5 , page 138 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) in set the deferment rate the Secretary of State must have regard to the desirability of encourage leaseholder to extend their lease at the low possible cost . " this amendment would ensure that when determine the applicable deferment rate , the Secretary of State would have to have regard to the desirability of encourage leaseholder to extend their lease at the low possible cost . government amendment 54 to 67 . amendment 8 , in schedule 7 , page 168 , line 15 , leave out sub - sub - paragraph ( a ) . this amendment would ensure that all leaseholder , not just those with residential lease of 150 year or over , have the right to vary their lease to replace rent with peppercorn rent . government amendment 68 to 82 , 84 and 23 . let I begin by thank member in all part of the House for their valuable contribution to the Bill . it be good to see that so many who have be involve so far be present ; a number of they have be campaign for these change for year . I will not be able to name everyone , but I pay tribute to , in particular , my right hon . friend the Members for Bromsgrove ( Sir Sajid Javid ) , and for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , my late right hon . friend the former Member for Old Bexley and Sidcup , James Brokenshire , and my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , all of whom have play such important role in prepare the ground for many of the measure before we today . they have all be invaluable in help we to reach the point at which we deliver on the commitment that we make to reform a system that clearly need change , and give million the freedom , security and control over their life that come with home ownership in its true , full sense . at a stroke , the Bill will provide that great control for young people and many other . it will help to reduce unnecessary stress , uncertainty and waste time by reform a labyrinthine system and make it well . buy a home , especially a first home , must be a moment of pride and celebration — a just reward for year of hard work , careful saving , sacrifice make , and do the right thing . for some , however , the dream of home ownership be realise in soar service charge , rip - off insurance commission and escalate ground rent . overall , and most infuriatingly , there be a sense of be leave in the dark , and of a system that be work against , rather than for , the homeowner . that be bad for everyone , but it be notable that first - time buyer constitute nearly 50 % of leaseholder ; 15 % of owner - occupier be age under 35 . they be the future of our property - own democracy , and they rightly expect and deserve to put down root and have the same stake in society as previous generation . I would welcome my hon . friend ' s view on that point . what he have say be entirely correct . I have meet so many first - time buyer in my constituency who be trap , because they be stick in a cycle of increase service charge . even bad , facility company be not maintain property when there be serious problem . I be meet representative of one of they , FirstPort , at the weekend , but a great many other example have be cite in the House . we be deeply concerned , because our constituent have sacrifice so much . they have put all their investment and saving into their property , but there be clearly no accountability or transparency , and we hope that the Bill will change that . hear , hear . my right hon . friend be absolutely right , and the support that have just be express for her comment demonstrate that many of we see these issue in our constituency . as she say , it be vital that we give people who have make such sacrifice in order to achieve first - time home ownership the right to , and the great control over , that ownership . in my constituency , Victoria Avenue ( Harvest Grove ) Management Company seem to be extort money from leaseholder and not provide any of the work that it say it be provide . it be take they to court and charge they for the benefit of have letter send to they with invoice . through this Bill , we desperately need to redress the balance between freeholder and leaseholder . will the Minister see that that be the case ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . he make a very important point about transparency , which be at the heart of the service charge change in the Bill . he make an extremely important point about fairness . not all company will be do thing that be incorrect , but where they have be find to be incorrect , it be important that they shoulder their own cost . I thank the Minister for his generosity with his time . it be not only company that be exploit leaseholder ; the St Mary Magdalene and Holy Jesus Trust in my constituency refuse to allow its leaseholder to extend their lease or buy their freehold . the charitable exception be very complex , and nobody want historic house to be sell , but these be ordinary terrace house and the charity use to sell the freehold and , indeed , extend leasehold in the past . be it possible for the Minister to meet I or my constituent to look at how this issue can be address in the future ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for outline that issue ; I know she have raise it in this place before . as she indicate , this be a complex area of law , but I be happy to talk with she separately on that matter in the come week , if it be helpful . how be we do this ? we be give leaseholder more security over the future of their home by increase the standard lease extension term to 990 year , by make it cheap and easy for leaseholder to buy their freehold , and by tackle unfair charge , exploitative practice and poor management . in do so , we be overturn century of iniquity . the Bill will also give leaseholder the control they deserve over the building they live in . at present , management company be too often unaccountable to those who pay for they , mean that they be able to charge excessive fee for poor - quality service . the Bill give more leaseholder the opportunity to manage the building themselves , so that work get do properly and they have more of a say . the Minister might anticipate the question I be go to ask , because I have ask it before . it be fine give leaseholder easy way to buy their freehold , until we come across company such as Coppen Estates , which we have debate before . it just do not reply to letter . I think that we be now on our third record delivery letter to the company about the resident on the Flockton estate , who have just be send enhance bill for their ground rent charge , with no justification . they face threat if they do not comply . where in the Bill be there any measure to make sure that Coppen Estates and the like respond properly in future or face consequence if they do not ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman . as he know , we have debate the iniquity of Coppen Estates extensively , and I repeat that it be treat my constituent in a way that be inappropriate , in the same way that it be do with his constituent over the border . give that we be extend the opportunity for charge to go to tribunal , I hope that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent in Flockton will be able to go to tribunal and hold that company or other company to account , should that be helpful . through the reform , we will scrap the presumption that leaseholder must pay their freeholder ' s legal cost , even when they win at tribunal , correct another historical and unfair imbalance . someone would not be expect to pay legal cost if they be successful in their claim in other case , so leaseholder should not be treat any differently . the Minister be most accommodate throughout the proceeding in Committee , and we be all grateful to he for the way in which he have listen . far to the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , the Minister will know that many developer have locate themselves extrajudicially in place such as the Cayman Islands . Wembley Central Apartments Ltd in my constituency have finally end up there , as have many other . what in this Bill will enable we to extend our reach and force such company to respond , reply and do what the Building Safety Act 2022 already say they ought to do ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point , which I know we debate in Committee . he correctly highlight the challenge in certain area of enforcement . if I may , I will come back to that later in the debate . I join my hon . friend the Member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) in recognise that this be not a partisan issue , because so many of we see the problem . the Minister talk about people not pay the cost when they win , but many will be shock to discover that no precedent be set at a leasehold tribunal . we see company exploit our constituent time and again , and it create no precedent on which the court and the tribunal court could draw . will he look at my amendment 1 ? it seek to set that precedent and give people the protection of know that a freehold manager who have mistreat people will not be able to do it with impunity , because the court will be able to take that into consideration if a tribunal have find that to be the case . I be grateful to the hon . Lady , and I know that she feel strongly about this matter and have raise it previously . I be always happy to talk outside the Chamber , but the advice I have receive be that , at the high tier of the tribunal , there be the ability to give an indication of the direction of travel and a precedent can be set there . as I say , I be happy to talk to the hon . Lady separately . in Committee , we make effort to far improve and expand the Bill . we move 119 amendment , include on expand leaseholder right of redress and provide new guarantee that leaseholder will receive sale information , and table a number of technical amendment to improve it . today we be propose further improvement , and I will now turn to the Government amendment on Report . I will first speak to new clause 30 to 35 , and amendment 23 and 49 . build on the Building Safety Act 2022 , the Government have table a number of amendment to clarify and extend protection in specific area to far prevent freeholder and developer from escape their liability to fund building remediation work . the Building Safety Act provide leaseholder with a range of protection to ensure that those responsible for build safety defect be make to carry out the work or pay for they to be carry out . however , before and during the process of remediation , relevant step may be require to keep the building and the resident safe . relevant step include such measure as provide wake watch , fire sprinkler or simultaneous alarm . unfortunately , there have be case where the landlord have fail to put those in place or to pay for the relevant step . that have cause the leaseholder to bear the financial burden or require the local authority to step in . new clause 30 would place beyond doubt that the first - tier tribunal can order that the cost of the relevant step be meet when make a remediation contribution order or a remediation order . it be often the case that do survey or investigative work to discover the full extent of remediation require on a building take time , money and effort , and those assessment can be invasive . new clause 31 would place it beyond doubt that the first - tier tribunal have the power to order that a respondent must arrange and pay for evaluation , survey or expert report to establish the full extent of a building ' s defect . on new clause 32 , we know that in some instance , landlord of building that be 11 metre high or above be fail to provide alternative accommodation for leaseholder when they be decant from their home . this new clause would place it beyond doubt that , in addition to relevant step and expert report , the cost of alternative accommodation for leaseholder and other resident who be decant from their home can be recover through remediation contribution order . on new clause 33 , resident management company and right - to - manage company allow leaseholder to have more control over their building . however , such management company be unable to fund litigation against non - compliant landlord , as they be unable to recover the cost for do so from leaseholder in their building . this new clause would allow such management company , where the relevant lease allow , to raise fund for remediation contribution order , make sure that we continue to hold those responsible for life - threaten defect to account . new clause 34 would repeal section 125 of the Building Safety Act , which be intend to allow for the recovery of remediation cost relate to residential building that be 11 metre high or above in an insolvency , and for these fund to be use to remediate the building . however , there be a conflict with insolvency law and a risk that , instead of be use for remediation , any sum recover under section 125 could be direct to pay down the debt . this problem can not easily be remedied , so we be seek to repeal the section at this time . new clause 35 propose that regulator need to be make aware if those responsible for relevant building — that is , responsible person — become insolvent . this new clause introduce a duty on insolvency practitioner to notify local fire and rescue authority , local authority and , where necessary , the building safety regulator . I also want to speak to new clause 42 to 66 , new schedule 2 and 3 and amendment 84 . we know that there be little justification for sell house on a leasehold basis . for year , developer have exploit the sale of house on a leasehold basis for the sole purpose of generate an income stream from ground rent and fee . this have be do at the expense of consumer , who receive little or no benefit in return . we promise to shut down this abusive practice by ban the sale of house on a leasehold basis , and today we be do so . other than in narrow circumstance where a lease can still be justify , all new house will need to be sell on a freehold basis . I be really grateful for this news from the Minister . it certainly go a long way towards address my new clause 13 . he speak specifically about ban leasehold sale of new house , but what consideration will he give to extend that ban to leasehold flat ? I know that that be a concern for a number of we on both side of the House . I know that my right hon . friend have campaign extensively for the ban on leasehold house , as many in this Chamber have do , and she have speak up in this place on the issue before . I be grateful for her support for it . she also rightly talk about the extensive debate about the potential extension of the ban to flat . the Secretary of State have say at this Dispatch Box on numerous occasion that the Government remain keen to make progress on find an alternative workable solution to leasehold flat — most people in this place recognise that that will probably be commonhold — and work will continue on that . we hope to make further progress on that in the future — rise — Commonhold have clearly create a significant amount of interest . I thank my hon . friend for give way , and for what he be say . there be certain building company in this country — Bellway Homes , for example — whose policy be to sell the leasehold to leaseholder and sell the freehold to a company that then exploit every aspect of the freehold , without even inform the leaseholder that they have do this . surely we can close this loophole — we could close it this afternoon — by ensure that the freeholder must give the leaseholder the first right of refusal to purchase the freehold . my hon . friend raise an important point . I know that it be cover in an amendment put down by the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , and I will come to it later in the debate . on the point make by the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , Bellway be certainly a company that have do this . indeed , many people do not even realise that they have a leasehold house and only find out quite a while afterwards when all the cost start to come down the road . I welcome what the Government have do , but we must try to find a good solution for everybody who now find themselves in this position , because in the year to come those house could become very difficult to sell . the right hon . Gentleman make an important point about the need to ensure that this regime work . we recognise that there be challenge , which be why we be bring forward a number of measure . on the point about exist contract that have be sign by people purchase a leasehold property , be it the Government ' s view that those be legitimate contract and that there be therefore a risk in try retrospectively to reverse the condition of those contract ? or be it the Government ' s view that those be abusive contract and that there be therefore a public policy interest in retrospectively eliminate the leasehold element of they ? I hope that I will be able to answer my hon . friend ' question in a moment when I run quickly through our amendment . we be ban the sale of leasehold house in all but unusual circumstance , but for those that be out there at the moment , there must be an ability to ensure that they can buy the freehold and move from the leasehold challenge to a freehold . let I deal with some specific that I hope will answer some of the question that have be raise . new clause 42 ban the grant of new long lease of house . it will cover both newly build house and exist freehold house where the owner attempt to grant a new long lease . this new clause also close a potential loophole by prevent the late sale of a lease where circumstance have change between the date the lease be grant and the date it be assign . for example , this will thwart a developer from grant a lease of vacant land to a sister company , build a house on the land and then sell what be now a leasehold house . new clause 43 set out the broad condition for what property will be capture by the ban . each of these broad condition be then define in the subsequent four clause . new clause 44 and 45 specify what constitute a long leasehold interest for the ban . it adopt the establish definition in law , which be familiar to developer and home owner alike . new clause 46 set a definition in law of a house for the purpose of this legislation . this be a broad definition that should reflect what prospective buyer would rightly consider to be a house . the definition will also capture attempt to create minor interdependency between two property , which developer might create to get around the ban . new clause 47 confirm what a residential lease be . it provide that a long lease of a property will be a residential lease if the lease do not prevent use as a separate dwelling . again , this be a broad definition design to prevent the mis - selling of leasehold house and capture only lease of property use as a house . we recognise that in a limited number of case the use of lease can still be justify . for the purpose of this Bill we be call they permit lease . we have consult widely on what should and should not be exempt from the ban , and even on the question of what be and be not a house for these purpose . the result be the collection of definition now detail in new schedule 2 to the Bill . these exemption will allow vendor to continue to sell long lease on house where the use of a lease can be justify . this include land where property can not be sell on a freehold basis , such as inalienable National Trust land , or where the product rely on a lease connect to an active third party , such as share ownership house or community land trust . we be able to — and we will , if need be — revisit these definition and exemption if innovation in the housing market require it , or if we see evidence of poor behaviour . new clause 49 would create an additional layer of protection for consumer and clarify which lease be permit , usually when a developer intend to sell a number of new lease of house on the same site . those who intend to grant or sell lease that fall into one of the category set out in part 1 of the schedule will be require to make an application to the appropriate tribunal for determination on whether the propose lease be permit . this include house sell on land lease before the Government announce their intention to ban leasehold house in December 2017 , and lease such as retirement house lease or those on inalienable National Trust land . to add further clarity for consumer and subsequent buyer , the tribunal will grant a certificate confirm that the lease be permit and under which category . critically , this must happen before the lease be market , so that the potential buyer can proceed with the purchase with confidence , know that the house be exempt from the ban . this relate to the point make by the right hon . member for Alyn and Deeside ( Mark Tami ) . not many development will need to go through this process , but those operate where it be not always clear whether a lease be permit or require will have to do so . to ensure that consumer have access to the material information they need and that they have the confidence to make a decision when purchase a new house , new clause 50 require those propose to sell a new lease of a house to make this clear when market the property . to ensure that vendor comply with the new marketing requirement , this measure will rely on new clause 59 to implement a new penalty regime . this include a fine for fail to provide the require marketing information at the right time . we know that not all home buyer will read the detail of all the marketing information and that not all lease will be advertise , so new clause 51 introduce warning notice so that all vendor will have to alert purchaser in write that they be enter into the lease of the house , or an agreement for the lease of the house , and inform they on what ground that lease be permit . I thank the Minister for give way again . one problem be that many of these company encourage buyer to use their lawyer , who do not point out some of the pitfall of leasehold property . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right , which be why I hope that measure such as new clause 51 go some way towards make it crystal clear that there be no way to get around this , and towards provide clarity to those who seek to buy a new property . new clause 52 will require a statement on the front of all new lease declare that it be a permit lease and be not a long residential lease of a house . should a developer make a dishonest declaration to his Majesty ' s Land Registry , the homeowner may be able to exercise the redress right contain in new clause 54 , which will allow they to acquire the freehold from the developer free of charge . under new clause 53 , if a lease do not include the prescribed statement , his Majesty ' s Land Registry will have the power to restrict the resale of the property until the right information and declaration have be provide . the Minister be talk about the information on house . will it also apply to flat so that , before anyone buy a property , it must be explain to they that they be buy a lease and what that entail ? I table new clause 38 , which say that everyone buy a lease should be present with a copy of the Government ' s " how to lease " document . everyone in this situation should be give independent advice . I be focus on home , and we have be emphatic and clear that the sale of leasehold home will be preclude other than in exceptional circumstance . I be happy to talk to the hon . gentleman both later in the debate and outside the Chamber about whether further consumer protection for those purchase a flat may be proportionate and reasonable . new clause 54 grant homeowner who have be mi - sell a new lease of a house the right to acquire the freehold from the landlord , as well as any superior leasehold interest in the property , for zero cost . new clause 55 and 56 set out protection and reasonable limitation on this requirement , and new clause 57 provide for the Secretary of State to make regulation set out further detail on how redress can be obtain . we understand that grant homeowner the right to redress alone may not be enough to prevent bad actor from attempt to breach the ban on the sale of lease on house , which be why we be introduce a system of financial penalty where there be a breach . these penalty will start at £ 500 for a minor breach , rise to £ 30 , 000 for the most serious breach . to enforce this system of fine , as set out in new clause 58 , we be ask all local weight and measure authority to play a part where they see infraction in their area . we will also set out how they need to work through new clause 60 . the chief responsibility for investigate and take action will lie with the lead enforcement authority . through new clause 61 , the Secretary of State will have the power to appoint the right authority to fulfil this important role , while new clause 62 detail the duty . by amend the Consumer Rights Act 2015 , clause 63 and 64 also vest the appropriate investigatory and enforcement power essential for both the lead authority and local authority to carry out the job . can the Minister assist I with a relatively unusual issue in my constituency ? I have listen very carefully to his helpful speech . in the Loddon Park development on the edge of Woodley in my constituency , resident be sell property only to discover in the small print of their contract , as my right hon . friend the Member for Alyn and Deeside ( Mark Tami ) say , that they be expect to pay a stand charge to upkeep open space on this large development , even though they be freeholder of their own house . will the Minister look into this matter and write to I about what redress might be open to they ? I be very happy to write to the hon . Gentleman about the specific . in addition to the building safety measure and the ban on new leasehold house , the Government have table a number of consequential amendment to refine and improve the Bill . with the leave of the House , I will mention three key issue among the many that be bring to our attention in Committee . I understand these issue will be subject to further debate today , but I want to acknowledge that they be : cap exist ground rent , which have already be raise ; leaseholder forfeiture , which I know will be raise ; and support for the resident of freehold estate , which have already be extensively address . I know that member will have question about the Government ' s plan to address ground rent , and we have consult on introduce a cap on ground rent in the Bill . we extend the consultation on request and , as a result , we be still consider our next step . we will say more shortly . the Minister be generous in give way . can he give we an indication of the timescale ? many member will be interested to know the answer . and do he anticipate be able to introduce something when the Bill reach the other place ? although I can not give the specific assurance that my right hon . friend seek , we be try to work through this at speed . we recognise that it be an important issue , and we recognise that it be vital to today ' s discussion . I know that hon . and right hon . member will recognise that this be a hugely contested area in which there have already be significant discussion . People have very different view , so we want to make sure that , while we be move at speed , we take our time so that we reach a conclusive decision through the right methodology and process . my constituent be in a flat with a ground rent of £ 454 a year . as that be over the £ 250 threshold , it mean that their property can be take away from they if they fail to pay their ground rent . as a result , my constituent have fail to sell their property six time , even though they have have buyer . they be stick in this flat , and they can not get on with their life . will the Minister please look at this threshold , which be cause real problem ? my right hon . friend move I on to my second point . we also recognise the strength of feeling on the vexed issue of forfeiture . the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) make a clear case on this in Committee , as do other member , and I also hear a passionate and eloquent case in Committee from my hon . friend the Member for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) . will the Minister simply remove any opportunity for forfeiture ? it be arcane and have no place in our system . I strongly suspect that would get support on both side of the House . the House see my hon . friend ' s passion , which he demonstrate in Committee and be demonstrate again today . both he and my hon . friend the Member for Redditch make passionate case in Committee . I recognise that this be a real and significant problem , and there be a huge iniquity at stake . I have hear from colleague , both today and previously , about why we should act , and we be currently work through the detail of the issue . we will report back to the House with more detail shortly . finally , a comprehensive debate in Committee on freehold estate be lead by my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) . he be a committed campaigner on this issue , and I know that many other member also have very strong view . I have also be involve in this in place such as Alderman Park and Hunloke Grove in my constituency . we understand the strength of feeling on this issue , and we be consider it far . resident of estate across my constituency be trap in extortive relationship with unaccountable private management company while their estate go unadopted . on Second Reading , the Secretary of State express his willingness to bring forward and consider measure to make sure that resident have the right to manage on such estate , at a bare minimum , before consider wide action . be there any reason why the Government would not accept new clause 7 in the name of the shadow Minister to finally give the resident of these estate the right to manage and to get out of these extortive relationship ? the hon . Gentleman make that case in Committee , and I be grateful to he for that and for repeat it today . as I say , we understand the strength of feeling on the issue and be consider it far . rise — I will give way one final time and then I will conclude , so that other can get in . these management company that the Minister allude to have a literal monopoly over the resident they be mean to serve — in effect , they control the resident , rather than the other way round — so I welcome the amendment make in Committee to ensure that resident can change their management company . will he give a commitment to this House that he will ensure that those amendment stay in the Bill , both here and in the other place , and that they will become law ? my hon . friend have be a campaigner for many year on the importance of this matter , and I know how strongly he feel and how much he act on it on behalf of his constituent . we be absolutely committed to make progress on estate management . the Bill demonstrate a significant step forward in do that , and we will see what else we can do in the future . rise — I be go to wind up so as to give other the opportunity to speak . to sum up , property ownership have be describe as one of the bulwark of individual freedom , and the measure I have describe today be design to give all homeowner , particularly the young generation , the chance to gain a proper stake in our democracy . the Bill seek to bring great fairness , transparency and accountability to the system , and to give million of people across the country a more secure foundation to get on in life , a strong stake in our society and a solid platform for the future . I be grateful for all Members ' effort to improve the Bill and for the scrutiny and debate it have receive so far , and I look forward to hear the further discussion to that effect this afternoon . rise — order . colleague will see that a lot of right hon . and hon . member wish to contribute to this debate , which have to finish at 6 pm . I will want to bring the Minister back for a short time . another Deputy Speaker be take over in a moment , but let I advise that those speak from the Back Benches should be prepare to speak for between six and seven minute , in order for we to get everybody in . I be afraid that that be because of the pressure on time . I call the shadow Minister . I start by declare an interest : my wife be the joint chief executive of the Law Commission , whose work in this area I intend to reference in my remark . I rise to speak to the amendment and new clause that stand in my name . before do so , I would like to put on record my thank to all those hon . member who serve on the Public Bill Committee for so ably scrutinise the many technical and complex provision that the Bill contain . there be , as one would expect , difference of opinion and emphasis , but it be also evident that there be a shared recognition that the Bill can and should be improve far , and an unusual degree of cross - party agreement as to some of the way that might be achieve . despite ream of Government amendment table in Committee and for our consideration today , this Bill remain a distinctly unambitious piece of legislation . that be a matter of deep regret to those on the Labour Benches , not only because the Government ' s paucity of ambition will see exploit leaseholder wait even long for the current iniquitous leasehold system to be end , but because it be also manifestly clear that there be widespread support across the House to go much far than this limit Bill do . responsibility for the fact that the Bill do not contain so many of the commitment that successive conservative Secretaries of State have make over recent year , not least in relation to the promise widespread introduction of the commonhold tenure , ultimately lie with Ministers . they have the opportunity to bring forward bold leasehold and commonhold reform legislation , and they make a political decision not to do so . although the opposition appreciate the understandable desire of many leaseholder to see this Bill completely revamp so that it live up to the many weighty promise make by the Government since 2017 , we make clear at the outset in Committee that we do not intend to try to persuade Ministers to radically overhaul it by mean of the many hundred of amendment that would be require to implement all the Law Commission ' s recommendation on enfranchisement , right to manage and commonhold . that remain our position . whether this Bill receive Royal Assent or not before this Parliament be dissolve , a Labour Government will have to finish the job of finally bring the leasehold system to an end by overhaul it to the last benefit of leaseholder and reinvigorate commonhold to such an extent that it will ultimately become the default and render leasehold obsolete . I reassure leaseholder across the country that we be absolutely determined to do so . we recognise , however , that this limited Bill will provide a degree of relief to leasehold and freehold homeowner in England and Wales by give they some great right , power and protection over their home . for that reason , we be extremely pleased it will complete its passage today , but we be determined to send to the other place the most robust piece of legislation that we can . that mean rectify the Bill ' s remain flaw and incorporate into it a select number of measure to far empower leaseholder and improve their right . with that objective in mind , we have table a series of amendment and new clause for consideration today . that they be almost identical to a number of those we discuss at length in Committee be a deliberate choice that reflect not only the importance we place on the change they seek to secure , but the distinct lack of convincing response from the Minister in Committee as to why the Government feel they need to resist they . part 1 of the Bill concern leasehold enfranchisement and extension . in seek to implement the small subset of reasonable and proportionate Law Commission recommendation , it be almost entirely uncontentious . however , we believe that several provision in this part be defective . we seek to remedy their deficiency in Committee and we have table a number of amendment in an attempt to do so again . amendment 4 and 5 concern arguably the most significant provision in this part when it come to ensure that the process of extend a lease or acquire a freehold be as cheap as possible for exist leaseholder — namely the propose new valuation process as provide for in clause 9 to 11 and schedule 2 and 3 . the current valuation method have a number of manifest flaw , and we fully support the new method as propose in the Bill . however , with the applicable deferment rate become the primary driver of price to be pay in enfranchisement or extension claim under the new method , as a result of the abolition of marriage and hope value and the peppercorning of ground rent in the valuation calculation , we believe it be essential that it be set in a way that be fair to leaseholder . while the Government ostensibly agree , there be nothing on the face of the Bill to ensure that that will be the case and we therefore remain convinced that this Government , or a future one , could be lobby by vested interest to set a deferment rate that will be punitive to leaseholder . in resist our effort to amend the Bill in Committee to guard against such an outcome , the Minister argue that the Secretary of State must have flexibility to make decision on the rate or rate . we agree ; we be not suggest that we bind the hand of Ministers by prescribe the rate or rate on the face of the Bill , but we do believe that the legislation should be amend to place a clear obligation on the Secretary of State to set a rate or rate with the override objective of encourage leaseholder to acquire their freehold at the low possible cost . the shadow Minister be right that there be a lot of consensus in Committee , so I hope he will not mind I probe he on some of the language he just use about the issue of set rate . we all want to see what the Government do on deferment and capitalisation rate , but the shadow Minister use the term " punitive to leaseholder " . do he accept that already embed in the issue about ground rent and the change here be a substantial transfer of value from freeholder to leaseholder , that the people who be more likely to suffer from punitive behaviour be those who enter into contract historically from the freeholder side expect that those value would be consider , and that it be a public policy decision that will change the value in those contract ? I understand the hon . Gentleman ' s point , which he make in Committee as well , if I be not mistaken . we very much think the risk be on the other side of the scale — that is , that a Government would be tempt to set a rate that be damaging to leaseholder as a result of be lobby by vested interest . while there be a balance to be strike , we think it be right that we put on the face of the Bill that the objective in set the deferment rate as part of the premium calculation must be to ensure that leaseholder acquire their freehold at the low possible cost . amendment 4 and 5 would ensure that that be the case and I commend they to the House . part 2 of the Bill make change to other right of long leaseholder . it contain the four clause in the Bill that implement Law Commission recommendation on the right to manage , several of which we have seek to improve , as well as clause 21 , which make provision for a new enfranchisement right to extinguish a ground rent without have to extend a lease . we still have absolutely no idea how this clause — or clause 7 and 8 , for that matter — will interact with any proposal that might emerge from the recently closed consultation on restrict ground rent for all exist lease . the Minister must provide further clarification on that ; it can not be right that we could be deal with such a significant issue when we get to ping - pong stage , in due course . we very much welcome the intent of clause 21 and schedule 7 , which it give effect to . even if unamended , they will ensure that some leaseholder can enjoy reduce premium and secure nominal ground rent ownership of their property without the need to go through the challenge and expense of repeat lease extension . however , we remain unconvinced by the Government ' s propose conferral of this new right only on those leaseholder with lease with an unexpired term of more than 150 year . in resist our attempt to remove the 150 - year threshold from the Bill in Committee , the Minister essentially make two argument . the first be that there be a need to " put a finger on the scale " somewhere . in other word , the Government take the view that the new right must be restrict base on lease length . the second argument be that in determine the threshold for restriction , the primary consideration should be which leaseholder be " unlikely to be interested in , or do not need , a lease extension . " – – [ Official Report , Leasehold and Freehold Reform Public Bill Committee , 25 January 2024 ; c . 271 . ] we do not believe that either argument be particularly strong . first , any long lease threshold for the new right be ultimately entirely arbitrary , as evidence by the fact that the Government choose a different threshold from the one recommend by the Law Commission . secondly , there be a principled argument that we should trust leaseholder to make decision base on what be right for they and their individual circumstance , rather than deny a broad category of leaseholder a new statutory right on the basis that minister know well what be in their interest — a viewpoint that we would have assume those on the conservative Benches would support . as I put it to the Minister in Committee , there could be all sort of reason why someone with a lease short than 150 year might want to buy out only their ground rent , include simply that they be unable to afford the premium require to secure a 990 - year lease under clause 7 and 8 . deny they that right on the ground that other leaseholder might advertently or inadvertently disadvantage themselves by use the new right to extinguish only their ground rent strike we as overly paternalistic and misguided . we remain of the view that there be a strong case for simply delete the 150 - year threshold entirely give that the " remaining year " test that apply be arbitrary and that the most common form of lease be 90 , 99 and 125 year . amendment 8 would do so , thereby make the new right to replace rent with peppercorn rent available to all exist leaseholder . I commend it to the House . part 3 of the Bill contain a wide range of measure relate to the regulation of leasehold . we have table several amendment design to strengthen the provision in it . arguably , the most important be amendment 10 and new clause 3 , concern litigation cost . although we support the aim of scrap the presumption that leaseholder will pay their freeholder ' legal cost when they have challenge poor practice , we believe that , in merely limit the ability of landlord to do so , the Government be create an incentive for freeholder to litigate in a way that be likely to erode the general presumption they be seek to implement . as we argue in Committee , a far more sensible approach would be to legislate for a general prohibition on claim litigation cost from leaseholder , and then to provide for a limited number of define exception to that general rule by mean of regulation — for example , in case in which the landlord be a leasehold - own company , or in which the cost be , in the opinion of the tribunal , reasonably incur for the benefit of the leaseholder or the proper management of the building . take together , amendment 10 and new clause 3 would provide for that approach by leave out clause 35 and replace it with a new clause that provide for a general prohibition on claim legal cost from tenant , and for a power to specify class of landlord who will be exempt from it . I commend they to the House . Mr Deputy Speaker , we want to see a number of other change make to the Bill to provide leaseholder with well protection in law and to pave the way for a commonhold future . to that end , we have table amendment and new clause to , among other thing : abolish the draconian rent charge remedy provide for by section 121 of the Law of Property Act 1925 ; provide for mandatory resident ' management company in new block of flat ; establish a right to manage regime for residential freeholder on private or mixed - use estate ; bring forward legislative option to facilitate leaseholder in new block of flat be grant an automatic share of freehold ; and regulate manage agent . of particular importance to we be the need to ensure that the Bill abolishes forfeiture and the windfall it provide to freeholder . as we argue in Committee , forfeiture be a wholly disproportionate and horrifically draconian mechanism for ensure compliance with a lease agreement . over the course of nearly a century , this House have take intermittent step to tighten the law of forfeiture , yet its continue use and the chilling effect that result from its mere existence continue to put landlord in a nearly unassailable position of strength in dispute with leaseholder . the opposition be not suggest for a moment that this House abolish the right of forfeiture in relation to residential long lease and replace it with nothing . there must be effective mean of ensure compliance with a lease agreement , and we be more than willing to work constructively with the Government to determine what alternative arrangement be need to deal with breach of covenant or unpaid arrear . but forfeiture operate to the prejudice of leaseholder ; it can not be justify , and we must use the Bill finally to do away with it . we believe there be broad consensus across the House for grasp the nettle and abolishing forfeiture , and new clause 5 would do so , and — notwithstanding the very positive noise that we hear from the Minister — I urge hon . member from across the House to support it . finally , let I turn to the 100 Government amendment to the Bill that be table last week , 29 of which be submit just before the deadline on Thursday . in do so , I feel I must put on record once again the opposition ' s intense frustration at this Government ' s continued practice of significantly amend legislation as it progress through the House . the sheer volume and complexity of amendment that this government now routinely table to their own legislation represent a departure from established practice and one that act as a serious impediment to hon . member effectively scrutinise legislation , and increase the risk that act of Parliament contain error that subsequently need to be remedie . the Government amendment that have be table for consideration today fall into three broad category — namely , share ownership , build safety and new leasehold house . I will take each in turn , start with shared ownership . although I be increasingly personally of the view that there be a grow case — one that be reinforce by the treatment of shared ownership in the Bill — for primary legislation to address various issue arise from shared ownership as a tenure , Government amendment 24 and 29 , which relate to it , be not contentious and we support they . we welcome the Government ' s decision to use the opportunity present by the Bill to make a number of change to the Building Safety Act 2022 to ensure it operate effectively , although the very fact that Ministers be have to completely overhaul arrangement that come into force less than two year ago — for example , replace the regime for deal with insolvent developer and orphan building by mean of new clause 34 and 35 — vindicate entirely the concern the opposition express back in 2022 about the way in which the then Building Safety Bill be overhaul at pace via hundred of Government amendment table in the other place , which noble Lords have relatively little time to consider carefully or properly scrutinise . I want to raise two issue of concern about the Government amendment relate to build safety . first , new clause 30 and 31 expand the concept of a relevant defect to which the leaseholder protection in the Building Safety Act apply and which tribunal can order landlord to remediate . although we obviously take no issue with amendment design to provide further clarification on how the Act operate , I would be grateful if the Minister could tell we why the Government believe these new clause be even necessary , give that the president and deputy president of the upper tribunal in the Olympic Village case rule that the tribunal already have the power under the Act to order remedial work in respect of a relevant defect , where the work be design to reduce the risk pose by that defect , not necessarily eliminate it completely . in addition , give that the Government be clearly willing to act retrospectively , I would be grateful if the Minister can tell we why they will not go far and take step to guarantee that leaseholder protection under schedule 8 to the Act apply irrespective of when service charge demand be issue , thereby prevent the Court of Appeal from potentially overturn the November 2023 ruling of the upper tribunal to that effect . the second issue concern new clause 32 , which expand the category of cost that leaseholder can seek to recover by mean of remediation contribution order and will allow for the recovery of cost associate with professional expert service and any temporary accommodation . however , it will not allow leaseholder in building with fire safety defect to attempt to recover the significant cost associate with soar building insurance premium , which in many case will continue to be levy after remediation work have complete . the Government be rightly try to improve the situation in respect of insurance charge by mean of clause 32 and 33 . will the Minister tell we why they will not allow such cost to be recover via an rco ? of course , not one of the eight Government amendment that relate to build safety resolve the underlie problem with the Government ' s approach — namely , the detrimental impact of the decision to exclude certain category of leaseholder and building from the protection that have be afford to other under the 2022 Act . we therefore table new clause 9 and 10 , which would give the Secretary of State the power to bring non - qualify lease and building respectively within the scope of the protection of the Act . I commend they to the House . I turn lastly to new leasehold home . the Government be rightly mock in the aftermath of the Bill ' s publication for claim that it end leasehold on newly build house in England and Wales , when it contain no such provision . on Thursday , they finally table amendment that appear to make good on their promise . there be only one problem : their purport ban on new leasehold house do not actually ban all new leasehold house . indeed , it be unlikely even to ban most of they , because new schedule 2 still allow new long residential lease of house to be create in instance where a superior lease have be grant before 22 December 2017 . the Minister suggest in his opening remark that the Government be thereby allow the sale of new leasehold home only in unusual circumstance , but they be introduce far from a limited exception . we literally have no idea how many undeveloped plot of land and property within they might be subject to such superior lease , or how many could still be grant subject to agreement make under such term — for example , where a developer have purchase a pre - 2017 head lease on a site but have not build it out . give that we know that developer routinely use intermediate lease both for financial purpose and to insulate themselves from various consumer right and protection , the prevalence of such arrangement in the leasehold housing market be likely to be high . as such , although we understand the significance of the date in question as the moment when the policy be first announce , and appreciate the need to provide for a limited number of exception , such as National Trust property , surely the Government realise that the exemption provide for by new schedule 2 be likely to render the ban meaningless and will mean that new leasehold house be still build in significant number . I have no doubt that the other place will have much to say about the new provision , but the Minister owe this House an explanation on precisely why the Government have potentially afford developer a means to continue build new leasehold house in significant number . I would be grateful if , in provide that explanation , he tell the House why on earth leasehold retirement property have also be exempt , give the almost uniformly detrimental impact of such arrangement on old people live in those property . this unambitious piece of legislation be a far cry from what million of leaseholder be lead to believe would be forthcoming give the extravagant promise make by successive Ministers over the past six year . they nevertheless recognise , as we do , that this limited Bill will provide they with some relief from the unjust and discriminatory practice that our archaic leasehold system facilitate . for that reason , they share our desire for it to receive Royal Assent as quickly as possible , but we owe it to they to deliver the most robust piece of legislation that we can deliver . we have a chance today to strengthen the Bill in a number of important respect , to rectify aspect of it that be problematic , and to improve it by incorporate a small number of target measure that will immediately empower leaseholder and improve their right . I urge the House to come together to do so . rise — Order . I be sure that everybody hear Madam Deputy Speaker ' s request for brevity , as a number of Members wish to get in , and we have to accommodate everybody before 6 o ' clock . I agree with a large part of what the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) say , and with nearly all of what my hon . friend the Minister say . where I disagree with the Opposition spokesperson be that I think the Bill be ambitious in what it be try to achieve , although we would all like it to go far . it be quite remarkable that this be the first major bit of legislation to help leaseholder since 2002 — although we have have the Building Safety Act 2022 , the Fire Safety Act 2021 and other thing , which do some thing towards that . it be remarkable how few people know much about the role of residential leaseholder . they own nothing but the right to live in a home for a period . I declare that I be a leaseholder . I have a flat in my constituency for which there have be no problem and for which the Bill will do neither harm nor good , and I also have another leasehold property . if I happen to gain from the measure , I would give the benefit to a good cause — I be not here for myself ; I be here for those who have be suffer for year . I wish I could be at the Westminster Hall debate on BBC impartiality , but it conflict with this debate . it be now 20 year since the peace activist and photographer Tom Hurndall be shoot by a sniper in Rafah . the subsequent nine month of inquiry by the Israel Defence Forces be shocking . however , I will leave that to the other debate . on leasehold reform , I believe that we have opportunity — both in the House of Commons and , perhaps more so in the House of Lords — to make significant progress . my hon . friend the Minister will point out to I the consultation on permit development right that start on 13 February . towards the end of the consultation document , paragraph 43 , 44 and 45 appear under the heading : " construction of new dwellinghouse on a freestande block of flat " . that be a reference to the inexplicable and disastrous Town and Country Planning ( permit Development and Miscellaneous Amendments ) ( England ) ( Coronavirus ) Regulations 2020 — SI 2020 no . 632 . those emergency covid regulation , accompany by an economic assessment of which , to put it bluntly , I would have be ashamed be I a well economist , allow owner , landlord and freeholder of certain block to put an extra one or two storey on top without consult the exist leaseholder at all . how any government — let alone one I support — could have do that be beyond my comprehension . there have be a consultation some year before , and the general consensus be , " Don ' t do it , " so why have it be do ? I hope that people will look at the consultation , which be open until April , answer question 27 and 28 , and give explanation of their own experience . a developer try to put extra floor on top of the St Andrews Gardens building in my constituency . that be turn down flat by the local authority , but its decision be overturn on appeal by the Government inspector . the developer then try again , advertise for sale flat that do not exist , even though nobody want they as they will cause significant harm . my new clause 25 , which I be indebted to Liam Spender of St David ' s Square in E14 for draft , say that the landlord or developer will have to pay compensation to leaseholder if the effect on they be harmful . the Minister ' s legal adviser may say that the clause be not perfectly draft , although I think it be pretty good . even if he can not accept it now , will he go through the reply to the consultation , have a talk with member of all party who represent those affect , and consider whether the Government can bring forward in the House of Lords proposal that would undo the effect of 2020 / 632 and implement some of the preferred response to the consultation , to which he may not have time to refer in his winding up ? it be five year since we produce the Select Committee report on leasehold reform . it come after long year of campaigning by the all - party parliamentary group on leasehold and commonhold reform , and I particularly commend the effort of the Father of the House , the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , who have just speak ; my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) ; and our good friend Jim Fitzpatrick , who be no long in this House , but who certainly make a major contribution to that . to be fair to the Government , it be good that we have make progress on many of the item in the Select Committee report . the caveat , of course , be that we probably have not go as far as we would have want or as quickly as we would have expect . when the Committee meet , I remember go into a room with about 100 leaseholder from all over the country — the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , who be in his place a few minute ago , be there as well — and hear horror story of people be rip off in the sale of leasehold home by developer . they be tell that there be no difference between a leasehold property and a freehold property . they be tell that by the solicitor who work for they , because the solicitor be recommend by the developer . that be together with the free carpet in the living room that come as a bribe — that be what it be . leaseholder be not aware that they would have to pay £ 300 to get a doorbell fit if they want one because they have to get permission , or £ 3 , 000 for a conservatory , or whatever fee the freeholder choose . leaseholder be tell that they could , within a couple of year , buy the freehold at a fix price from the same developer . the problem , of course , be that by the time a leaseholder come to inquire about purchase the freehold , the freehold have be sell to another party . there be lot of example of that , which be why I have an amendment — new clause 39 — that I want to push to a vote , although I hope the Minister will accept it . it be a simple amendment to say that before the sale of a freehold , the right of first refusal have to go to the exist leaseholder . that right already exist for leaseholder in flat , but not for leaseholder in house . why be that ? that really can not be justify or even explain . will the Minister accept just that one simple amendment ? it would give leaseholder that right , and stop freeholder — we know that this happen — who want to evade the legislation , include the improvement the Government be bring in , pass a property around from one organisation to a subsidiary to a third party , with a view to evade the legislation , so that leaseholder never know where to go to get the relevant freeholder to agree to the sale . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do he agree that part of the problem be that some of the freeholder be base overseas , and it be extremely difficult for leaseholder to track they down ? this be an ongoing issue that I hope the Government will look into . absolutely . I hope the Minister will have a look at the whole issue of freeholder who will not respond . that certainly apply to many who be overseas , with whom it be very difficult to get in touch . I will not press new clause 40 to the vote , but the purpose of it be to say to the Minister that the default answer can not be that the leaseholder can always go to a tribunal . Most leaseholder be simply ordinary resident try to get on with their life , who think it ought to be fairly easy to put in a request , get a calculation do and buy their freehold . they be not ready for these organisation , with all their lawyer and surveyor , that want to evade this and try to hide away , in some case overseas , so that they can not be contact . can the Minister look at that issue ? I know he be aware of it , because we share the same problem with Coppen Estates . there be other that be base overseas , but this one be base in a semi - board - up shopfront with a letterbox that never seem to be open . that be the sort of company we be deal with . they be small organisation that make a living out of charge ground rent from leaseholder , who can not exercise their enfranchisement because of the attitude and evasion of the freeholder concern . I hope that the Minister will have another look at that issue . the other amendment I have table be about have professional qualification and some form of regulation of property manager . the Government have legislate to say that the manager of social housing will need professional qualification in future , but what be the difference between a manager of social housing and a property manager of leasehold block ? in some way , there may be great complication in try to manage a multitude of different leaseholder than people who have secure tenancy in a council or housing association block of flat . what be the difference ? why will the Government not recognise that there be some good property manager who be well qualified , experienced and can be hold to account , but other who be not like that ? indeed , some be put in place for that purpose : they be cheap , they do not have experience or qualification , and they provide another way of avoid the restriction and rule that be rightly put on the management of property . they do not bother with proper service charge information or a proper list of charge for permission fee . I accept that the Government have try to improve that , but in the end such improvement will only work if the individual or organisation manage the property do so in a proper way . will the Minister look at those issue ? what be the rationale ? why be there resistance to ensure that people do a serious and important job as property manager be qualified to do it and properly hold to account through regulation ? let I begin by declare my interest as an adviser to the HSPG group , which among other thing be a registered provider of social housing . I rise to speak to new clause 68 , which be base on a specific challenge that I have encounter in my constituency and that affect resident in more than 70 home spread across three location in the town of Hayle and the village of Mount Hawke . the experience of those case expose a potential gap in the Bill and in policy on the issue of shared ownership . the Bill deal at some length with standard leasehold agreement and the problem of extortionate ground rent , as well as with some of the issue around service charge and management company with which we be familiar . however , in the early 2000 some agreement be put together that be technically leasehold agreement but that masquerade as share ownership agreement , even though those share ownership agreement do not comply with the standard of modern share ownership agreement . the agreement I have encounter contain a number of defect , and I would like the Minister ' s view on they . the first be that the freehold on those home be not hold by a registered provider . it be initially own by the developer who build the site , but it have change hand twice . in a way that be familiar to many member , the freehold have end up in the hand of an offshore investment vehicle base in the British Virgin Islands , and with a company call Rockwell , which have not be easy for resident to deal with over the year . the second major defect in the agreement be that there be no provision for staircase or enfranchisement of the leaseholder ' s share of the property . resident typically own between 58 % and 72 % of their property , but their stake be fix and can not be extend . there be no right to extend under the agreement . the agreement be under a 990 - year lease and there be no ability to extend that , although I appreciate it be a long - term lease . the third defect be that even if resident could enfranchise and extend or staircase their ownership within the agreement , a section 106 covenant mean that the property must be sell to a local connection with a significant discount on market value . the way that have be word in the agreement mean that it be simply not worth the while of resident to increase their share , since there would be no value to the increase share that they would have . finally , there be something describe as ground rent , although in practice a big chunk of that be effectively a rent on the share ownership portion . the ground rent be initially around £ 20 per week , but that be link to the retail price index on an escalating model . it have now get close to £ 2 , 000 per year for those resident , and it be still increase rapidly . all of those defect in that leasehold tenure arrangement or share ownership arrangement — indeed , it appear to be neither one nor the other — mean that all of the property have be judge unmortgageable by lender , and that mean the resident be trap . they can not sell their property because no one can get a mortgage to buy they . these be people in my constituency who have a local connection . typically , they be on modest income . these agreement and these home be sell to they as a way to get a foot on the housing ladder , and for those resident it have transpire to be a complete nightmare . I will say a word about planning and pay tribute to Penwith District Council , as it be then , and Cornwall Council . planning be grant between 2004 and 2006 , and the local planning authority do their due diligence . they could see that this share ownership model be defective , and they refuse planning permission on all three site on that basis . the Minister might ask how these home be then build and sell under the arrangement , but I suspect he can predict the answer , which be that they be approve at appeal by the Planning Inspectorate , an agency within his own Department . the situation that my constituent face have be cause principally by a chronic failure of due diligence by the Planning Inspectorate , as be often the case with such issue . in conclusion , my new clause 68 seek to address a gap in the Bill and to give the Government the opportunity to atone for the mistake of the Planning Inspectorate . it deal explicitly with shared ownership agreement and would create a statutory right to staircase ownership and put a cap on the rent of the freeholder ' portion of the home . I do not intend to press new clause 28 to a Division this evening , but I hope that the Government will consider the matter closely . I would like to meet the Minister or the Secretary of State and share with they and their official a copy of the shared ownership agreement that my constituent be suffer under so much , with a view to see whether the Government might consider further change at late stage of the Bill ' s consideration to address a gap in it . give that the Planning Inspectorate have be somewhat culpable in create this problem for my constituent , I hope that the Government will seek to do that . I support the general thrust of the Bill in all its attempt to deal with management charge , service charge and ground rent , but I hope that the Minister will agree to meet I to discuss some of these remain issue . it be 1 December 1998 . I have be an MP for one year and seven month to the day , and I be chain to the railing of College Green by 200 cheer leaseholder . thankfully , they be friendly . it be to illustrate that leaseholder feel that they be be prison . those be the day before social medium , and it be a photo op . the BBC run the headline , " leaseholder demand more control " . they still do . since then , we have have the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2022 , which be an attempt to resolve some of the problem , such as forfeiture of a person ' s home for a failure to pay a small service charge , the ground rent grazer charge money for no service and money not be hold in trust in sink fund . it be strange that after 25 year , these should be the very area that yet another Bill on leasehold reform be pretend and fail to solve . I say " fail " , because that be the reason I rise to support new clause 5 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) . it be ridiculous that a landlord can take away a person ' s home worth hundred of thousand of pound for a simple failure to pay a minor service charge amounting to a couple of hundred pound and where there be a dispute over whether the service be even provide . that be why I table new clause 16 about money be hold in trust , which would implement a provision of the 2002 Act that have never be bring into force . we hear in Committee that the policy have strong support from stakeholder , include spokespeople for the Property Institute and the Leasehold Advisory Service . even the British Property Federation have campaign for this provision of the 2002 Act to come into force , yet it be not here in the Bill . of course , 2002 be a time when nobody have even predict the new renti practice that freeholder and developer have since invent to extract money from homeowner for the privilege of live in their own home : the scandal of leasehold house ; the repeat doubling of ground rent ; and the inclusion of commercial area and share service in any development to stop any hope of resident exercise their right to manage . new clause 17 would ensure that leaseholder in mixed - use building could take advantage of the Government ' s policy to lift the 25 % non - residential premise cap to 50 % , and to have mandatory leaseback on expensive commercial premise . unless that new clause — or a version of it — be adopt , few leaseholder in mixed - use building will be able collectively to enfranchise under the Bill , which would be a travesty . if the government do not decisively address the structural dependency rule not only for enfranchisement but for right to manage , property developer will simply sidestep the new 50 % non - residential premise limit by design mix - use block with share service , connect flat to commercial premise by an umbilical cord to deny leaseholder their right . indeed , article from lead law firm explain how developer can build site to ensure that block can never be eligible for collective enfranchisement and right to manage . new clause 18 would provide the appropriate tribunal with the discretion to dispense with certain procedural requirement where it be satisfied that be reasonable to do . it be design to deal with case where a landlord attempt to frustrate a right to manage claim by procedural mean . I be grateful to Mark Loveday of Tanfield Chambers — perhaps the lead authority on service charge and right to manage practice in Britain — for his help in draft the new clause . by Mr Loveday ' s count , of the Law Commission ' s 101 recommendation on right to manage , few than five have be specifically adopt by the Government in the Bill . a whole industry have emerge since Labour introduce the 2002 Act , which bring right to manage into existence , whereby freeholder seek to find minor technical error by leaseholder to scupper genuine — and otherwise valid — right to manage claim . since right to manage be a no - fault regime , Parliament never intend for it to be an invitation to litigation by deep - pocket freeholder and their army of lawyer . as Mr Loveday note , the 2002 Act ' s right to manage do have " trap for the unwary " , and " the single most important problem with the right to manage , namely its procedural complexity " , with " these problem … famous among property lawyer " , have " notoriously lead to litigation on a truly industrial scale . " I urge the Minister to look again at new clause 18 in the other place and adopt such a pragmatic amendment , which would enable a tribunal to waive minor procedural mistake by leaseholder where it deem that just and convenient . since 2002 , we have also have the Grenfell Tower tragedy , which have expose the rotten culture of residential construction in this country . member should wonder why it be that over 11 , 000 tower block be reckon to have fire safety defect , no fire - stop in build voids , a lack of compartmentation , combustible cladding and inadequate fire door that leave the resident at the mercy of landlord , who literally go to the other side of the world to avoid have to pay for remediation . resident be subject to unfair service charge and find themselves prisoner trap in their own home , unable to sell up and move on with their life . this unjust system leech off ordinary people and shame we . this be the only remain country in the world where residential leasehold be the default tenure for apartment living . a person ' s home should not be a source of misery to they and one of unjust enrichment to other . we be talk about the life of 5 million people who need to be free from their feudal burden . that bring I to new clause 19 , which seek to restore the intent of the section 20 major work regime in the 2002 Act to what it be prior to the Daejan ruling . the Minister be good enough in Committee to confess that he be unaware of the ruling and say that he would study it with his official . yesterday , I receive a letter from he on some of the point I raise in Committee . he admit that since Daejan , " the vast majority of application for dispensation be bring by the landlord . " however , he go on to say : " regardless of which party make the application , the landlord will have to persuade the tribunal that dispensation should be grant , and it will be for the leaseholder to evidence that they have suffer prejudice " . he say : " I recognise your concern that leaseholder have to evidence prejudice , but only they be able to do so . once that threshold have be meet , the burden be on the landlord to rebut the impact the prejudice have have on the leaseholder . " he conclude : " the consequence be that an application to the tribunal be not merely rubber stamp the landlord ' s request . " I fundamentally disagree . Sue Bright , professor of land law at Oxford University , have be conduct research into this area , and argue as follow : " the importance attach to the consultation requirement be evidence by the fact that if the landlord fail to conduct the statutory consultation it be prevent ( in the current form of the consultation provision ) from recover more than £ 250 from an individual tenant in relation to those work . seemingly , this provide a very strong incentive to comply with the requirement but the protection offer be seriously weaken by the Supreme Court decision in Daejan Investment Properties Ltd v Benson . Lord Neuberger say that the consultation requirement be a means to an end rather than an end in themselves . he see the provision as play a support role in achieve ( only ) the end goal of consumer protection secure by section 19 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 , that is , protect tenant from unreasonable service charge . an alternative vision , support by the dissent judgment of Lord Wilson , acknowledge that consultation be an important end in itself . this recognise that consultation have an inherent value . far it be in keep both with the tenor of the new building safety regime that promote full engagement with leaseholder and resident , and the thrust of contemporary government policy towards provide consumer protection to leaseholder . " her finding be grim for supporter of leaseholder and a sense of fair play . she say : " in all of the fire safety case review for this article dispensation be grant , at least in part , and , with a few exception , the overwhelming majority be grant unconditionally even when the FTT " — the first - tier tribunal — " be critical of the way in which the applicant have manage thing . " I also thank Dr Haward Soper , another academic who help draft the amendment , who be appal by the number of successful dispensation win by freeholder that he find in his study of first - tier tribunal decision . I urge the Minister to think again , because this cut to one of the most fundamental injustice that we have see in leasehold apartment in recent year — those individual trap in building with fire safety defect . this Bill be the first set of reform to the leasehold tenure in 22 year . the test that I set the then Labour Administration be a simple one . I say : " what we want be for leaseholder to be able to take control over their own life without landlord be able to say when you have a new roof , how much you pay for it , who do it , when it ' s go to happen . you should be able to decide that for yourself in your own home . " the proposal in front of we today do not liberate leaseholder . the Secretary of State himself have say : " I don ' t believe leasehold be fair in any way . it be an outdated feudal system that need to go . and we need to move to a well system and to liberate people from it . " he be right . this Bill do not do that . it will be leave to a future Labour Government . there be a lot of good thing in this Bill . I give credit to the Minister and previous Ministers for introduce it , and my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , who have play a massive role in bring it to the House . it effectively ban the sale of new leasehold house through new clause 42 that we have be discuss , extend leaseholder ' right in various way and increase transparency over service charge . however , there be two big thing that still need to be strengthen in the Bill , which we have speak about in Committee and on Report . the first be to end the fleecehold estate model . new clause 1 , 2 , 6 and 7 be relevant to that . I be glad to hear the Minister , who understand this issue , talk about go away and consider this far , but for the benefit of the whip , what my constituent want be not for the Minister to consider it far but to ride in like a new sheriff on a white horse and sort out the fraudster , scam artist and various cheat who be make their life a misery . that be what we want on the Government Benches . the fleecehold estate scandal be just like the Post Office scandal , except that it affect more people . in consider the Post Office scandal , many people have ask , " how could we not have know about this injustice ? it ruin so many people ' s live for so long , yet nothing be do . " it be the same in this situation . my constituency have lot of these new estate . often , the first people know of the problem be when they receive a massive bill that they do not know be come and that be not mention in the note they be give when they buy the house . and , funnily enough , it be not draw to their attention by the lawyer of the housebuilder , whose service they be often encourage to use . some of these bill be a really scary size and often escalate quickly over time . a huge number of people — more and more every day — be now affect . about 20 , 000 estate be affect , involve between 1 million and 1 . 5 million homeowner and potentially 3 million or 4 million people . accord to the Competition and Markets Authority , over the past five year 80 % of the freehold property build by the 11 big builder have use this fleecehold model . a lot of my resident describe it as be like pay a second council tax , except that if a local councillor be not do a good job , they can be kick out , but it be not possible to do that to a fleecehold landlord , no matter how badly they perform . new clause 6 would address that , and I hope that the Government will address it as the Bill progress . I think that everyone now know how the fleecehold scam work . back in the good old day , the builder would build a new estate , make sure that all the road and so on be up to spec and pay a section 106 charge . the council would then take it over and run it , and if there be a problem , people could contact their local councillor . under the fleecehold model , it be not so simple . in effect , there be collusion between the council and the developer . the developer agree to hand over to a different company — it might own that company itself or hand it over to the resident — the running of many part of the estate , be it the road , the verge or other facility . that mean that the developer pay less in section 106 , the council do not have to maintain the road and effectively they split the profit while the resident and the new tenant get the new , massive bill . it be extremely inefficient to run thing in that way in the real economy . usually , the council go from road to road with its verge - cut lawnmower — it use one simple system . on one fleecehold estate , however , a guy drive down from Oldham , which be more than two hour away , mow a tiny bit of lawn and then leave . it be economic madness . a lot of the charge that people be hit with involve opaque management fee for nothing . it be inefficient to run thing in this way in the real world . there be a tick time bomb here . in addition to the number of people affect by the fleecehold estate scandal , the second problem be that when thing be not adopt , they do not go through a gateway where we can check whether they be up to scratch . I know from the experience of my constituency that a lot of thing be do badly and then a huge bill will land on the people on these poor estate to sort out the problem in the future . we hear all about this in Committee . I pay particular tribute to Harry Scoffin , the work of the group Free Leaseholders and the resident group HORNET — the Home Owners Rights Network . they all make a powerful case to abolish the fleecehold estate model entirely . as one witness tell the Committee : " this be my property . it be my hard - earn future … normal homebuyer be not qualified to manage estate . if we be give the right to manage , if we be look at a development of over 100 home , it be really hard to get in touch with 100 people who will agree and be on the same page . it be not workable . " – – [ Official Report , Leasehold and Freehold Reform Public Bill Committee , 16 January 2024 ; c . 54 - 55 , Q133 - 134 . ] I will give a few example from my constituency . Karen be a brilliant lady who do lot of work for her community . she move into a new Barratt home because she be bored of do load of DIY every weekend on her old home . she now find herself spend massive amount of time fight a fleecehold company call FirstPort , a company so notorious that a national action group have be set up against it — the detail can be find on Facebook — whose work I commend . Karen explain : " Barratt ' s encourage we to use their nominate conveyance solicitor for which in return we get £ 500 towards our legal bill . we be fool to do this , but money be tight … FirstPort didn ' t do or arrange any grass cutting or anything by way of a service in the first two year . " at first the bill be £ 35 , and this year it will be £ 74 . Karen continue : " our bill for the year include : Property Damage & Public Liability Insurance … Terrorism Insurance … Grounds Maintenance … General Maintenance … FirstPort ' s Management Fees " — the most expensive item — " Audit / External Accountant ' s Certificate and Fee … General Reserve … Health and Safety Risk Assessment … this come to £ 74 . 64 per house . " she say : " in the month of December , January and February each year I must spend more than a couple of day a week work on this . it ' s like have a part time job . I didn ' t move house to face the possibility of have to be a director of a resident ' ' right to manage ' company . I want adoption … by the local council … as it use to be . " she be right . member may be ask , " why be resident of this estate have to pay terrorism insurance for a fence ? " that be a very good question , to which I do not know the answer . let I introduce member to James — a brilliant , hard - work constituent of mine , who have have to do ton of work on the estate where he live . he say : " Councils should be adopt new estate " . he say that he have do " about 50 day ' work … over the first couple of year . we move in in 2018 and it wasn ' t really sort until 2021 — in fact it be still go on . have I not be proactive we would have end up be short - changed . " resident of Hursley Park in my constituency have have no end of problem with their developer , who be currently refuse even to meet they to discuss some of their problem . path have be do on the cheap and have become a quagmire , and bench have not be look after properly . fortunately , owe to a legal error on the developer ' s part , the resident have manage to gain control of the resident management committee , but after three year of effort they be still try to get the developer to make good the problem so that they do not face year of bill . they be still fight . many of they do not want to run their own estate , and they should not have have to do so . my last example relate to Farndon Fields — an estate that have be build over the last decade by a multiplicity of developer include Redrow and Avant . courtyard and share space in the development be not adopt by the council . astonishingly , each tiny courtyard be run as its own financial entity and be subsequently manage by a company call Chamonix , which turn out to be extraordinarily difficult to contact . each year the resident be force to pay " maintenance " charge for a couple of minute ' work over a whole year . one of my constituent write to I : " on one occasion I be continually ask to pay an invoice which I have previously pay and despite send proof of payment two or three time , I be tell court action would be take . I reply welcome this and advise they that I would counterclaim for stress and my time . I then receive an apology letter from the financial director … I be now fight a charge for work … for £ 367 " . thankfully , resident manage to wrest back control from the company after a huge amount of effort ; that be just as well , because Chamonix have now be buy out by FirstPort , so they have have a lucky bullet . I could go on and on . from charge resident for " terrorism insurance " for a fence to rip out newly plant tree to charge resident for work that never happen , the absurdity of the fleecehold scam be apparent to everyone who have encounter it . however , there be a number of way in which we could solve the problem — and while we need to solve it for exist resident , which will involve some sort of right to manage and a much clear ability to gain control of one ' s own estate , we also need to prevent this model from be use in the future . we could take up the brilliant proposal of my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire to prevent management company from take on service that be normally provide by local council . we could also take up the suggestion make by Councillor Shaun Gunner , the leader of the conservative group on Arun District Council , to change the Government ' s guidance on the use of planning condition , which currently state : " condition can not require that land be formally give up ( or cede ) to other party " . we could , perhaps , change the exist guidance to make it difficult for people to go down the fleecehold route . whatever we do , however , we have to end this scammy model , which be bring misery to the life of my constituent . another thing that we must do be end forfeiture , as be suggest in new clause 5 and as the Minister have suggest today : I be pleased that he be talk about take action . Margaret Thatcher tell the Conservative party conference in 1982 : " there be no prouder word in our history than ' freeholder ' . " she be right , and the ideal of property ownership have a long history on this side of the House , but a great many people who be buy freehold property be actually be con . it turn out that they do not really own their property at all , and that if they fall even a little behind on their bill or refuse to pay some scammy fleecehold company a small amount of money , they risk not just be make to repay , and perhaps pay the cost as well , but lose their house . it be that threat that enable the fleecehold cowboy to get away with it . they be terrorise people by threaten they with the loss of their home , and we must put a stop to it . as Mrs Thatcher say in her final book , " " everyone involve in the country ' s economic life have to be protect against extortion and corruption . " that be exactly what fleecehold be , and we have to end it . the final small thing that we must do in the Bill be to start the " turnaway " — I use that word advisedly — from ground rent . ground rent be not payment make in return for any service ; the historical rationale for their existence be totally obsolete . a 2018 survey find that half the people who face these escalate bill do not realise that they would be apply when they buy their property , and they cause huge problem with remortgage . I understand the problem and challenge of have to move away gradually from this model , but we should start to turn the supertanker now . we be talk about pure economic rent and pure rentier ; it be a totally unfair system . we might have to move slowly , but we have to start the movement away from these ground rent grazer , because this be an unfair system with no rationale . I know that the Minister understand the issue and I encourage he on all these issue to be brave and sort out the problem . there have be no legislation since 2002 . this be our one chance , so let ' s really go for it : let we have conservative principle , and end these massive rip - off . I rise to speak to new clause 3 and amendment 12 to 14 . a huge number of new build have be build within my constituency boundary over the last month , the vast majority of which have be flat . there have be numerous difficulty over the year , many of which I will not be able to cover today due to the time limit and your exhortation , Mr Deputy Speaker , to stay within seven to eight minute ; as the first woman to speak , I intend to do so . I will start with Legacy Wharf in Stratford , where leaseholder have be stick with a succession of management company that fail they time after time . under the former management company , shoddy — and probably overprice — repair be make by favour company at leaseholder ' expense over and over again , rather than any investment in long - term , high - quality maintenance . resident be hugely suspicious about possible kickback from service firm to the management company and the use of company under the management company ' s ownership , rather than it seek the good price and the good quality of service . thankfully , that management company have change , but many problem remain . resident have just be hand bill for 18 month of energy use all at once due to the management company ' s mistake . service charge and insurance bill rocket year after year , with resident wonder what on earth have be do with their money : they have poor landscaping , broken lift and inadequate fire door ; the security of communal area be rubbish ; resident have lose access to hot water and the boiler have not be service for as long as four year . those be all serious concern raise about just one building . ultimately , when accountability be seek , there be absolutely no way to get a prompt response . when there be such as constant deficit of transparency , it inevitably look like a way to cover up wrongdoing , mismanagement or incompetence . I strongly welcome the provision in this Bill on service charge transparency , and I add my support for the amendment table in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) . amendment 12 and 13 would surely provide additional support to my constituent , because they would mean that leaseholder would not have to pay service charge unless basic transparency and accountability be in place . amendment 14 would enable a maximum cost to be set for the provision of information to leaseholder , prevent the abuse of such cost to effectively obstruct accountability — it ain ' t on . leaseholder in every part of West Ham have face massive difficulty get accountability . I be remind of event in the Hallsville Quarter development in Canning Town , where resident in several building have to leave their home after a sewage ingress and power cut . the two management company respond in totally different way : Grainger offer £ 50 a day in subsistence payment , while FirstPort initially offer just £ 15 a day and only raise it to £ 25 after enormous pressure . FirstPort have to be chase by I for multiple basic action , and respond so poorly to resident whose life have be turn upside down by problem that be absolutely not of their making . next , I would like to raise the continue concern of the resident of Chobham Manor about their estate charge , which have increase rapidly over recent year . the charge be suppose to help pay for the upkeep of the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park , but many Chobham resident believe that it bear no relation at all to the amenity available to resident near the park . despite my support , they have find it almost impossible to scrutinise the budget they be pay for and to make sure that they ain ' t pay through the nose for poor value for money . Chobham Manor resident frankly do not see what they be get from the park in exchange for this charge , give that they be the only local resident who pay for it . I know that they will be grateful for an explanation of how they might benefit from the change that the Bill will make . I also want to mention , yet again , the continue limbo of many resident of East Village in Stratford . leaseholder there have live under serious financial threat for well over four year now . the remediation need to make their home safe be still be hold up because this Government ' s previous legislation leave the issue open to litigation . how can my constituent be reassure that this Bill go far ? the Secretary of State himself commit to use his planning power to call in proposal submit by irresponsible developer . I have to ask : will he make good on that promise and target those who be continually refuse to act on fire safety and leave leaseholder on the hook ? in a final case from West Ham , diligent and determined leaseholder have successfully take manage agent or freeholder to the tribunal for their dire failing . I be sorry to tell the House that these failing be across the board , include rat infestation , lack of insulation cause skyrocket energy bill , no transparency on the huge service charge , build safety problem and a complete lack of accountability . surely it should not have come to this . we should not be depend on individual leaseholder to battle their way through obscure system for their plight to get the attention it need . mp should not have to make dozen of detailed representation over and over again . it could not be clear who have the power in these dispute , and in so many case leaseholder be still pay the price for a system that be absolutely broken . sadly , the legacy of year of failure to act create understandable scepticism that change will come now , so I want to hear from the Minister today that he believe that the Bill will finally end this injustice . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) . we share a similar part of the world : Essex and the east of London . in Romford , just as in West Ham and the London borough to the east of the capital , we have see a huge increase in the number of flat and high - rise block be build over the last 20 year . havering be a town and country borough and we have not have many flat in the past , but suddenly we be see huge number of that kind of accommodation be build . this bring huge number of problem with it , include what we be debate today . I thank the Minister for bring this Bill forward . I hope that it will deal with many of the issue that colleague across the House have raise today , because they be very real . I sense that there be consensus on both side of the House that serious action need to be take , because this can really destroy people ' s life and ruin they ; they have save to buy a property and they have a leasehold , yet they be fleece by shark and manage agent who pile on the cost , and by army of lawyer who make their life miserable and threaten they with lose their property all together . this be not right for the people we all represent . I be now deal with these case in Romford on a daily basis . the hon . Lady mention many of the problem in West Ham , and I have example in the Steelway apartment in the centre of Romford . I visit those apartment only a few week ago and see the problem that people there be face . they be fail to get response from the management agent and those responsible , they be pay money for no service , and they be be rip off by management agent who be not do the job they be pay to do . I go to Rubicon Court , a fairly new development build only a few year ago , and be shock — absolutely flabbergast — to see how badly the resident be be look after . the service they be pay for have completely fail . I see mould , rat , rubbish and CCTV camera that do not work . that be not acceptable and , when the Bill be pass into law , I hope the Minister will ensure that it be effective . it be no good pass legislation unless it be effective and come into force quickly . I have concern about the speed with which this legislation will be enact . People be suffer and live in terrible condition , and they be spend huge sum from their saving to deal with these problem . will the Minister assure the House that there will be an effective way to implement the Bill quickly ? will he also consider the point that many member have raise about those who could lose their property ? what a horrific prospect it be for people who have save to buy their leasehold that , because of the issue we have discuss , they be bully and threaten with lose the property they have work so hard to purchase . there be so many issue , and I hope the Minister will take on board everything that have be say today . this be a cross - party issue , and we want the good for our constituent who live in these property and whose life be make very difficult by the current system . I hope this Bill will improve the life of all our constituent , and the Minister will have my full support in anything far he can do to ensure that people in Romford , and in every constituency represent here today , be able to live well life . People should not wake up with the feeling that everything they have save for their future be be lose because of deficient legislation and a failure to enforce the law . I have spend a lot of time visit Romford resident in recent month , and I visit many of these place . I intend to go back because , if there be one thing I have learn about be a Member of Parliament , it be that we be here to serve the people we represent . I be very proud to serve the good people of Romford . I can see that , across the Chamber , there be strong concern for leaseholder who be catch up in very difficult situation . I will first speak to new clause 67 , which I table after a case come to my attention late last year . I will then speak in support of new clause 5 and amendment 4 , 5 and 8 table by the official Opposition . these amendment relate to issue that have not be properly address by the Government , include forfeiture , the right to vary ground rent to a peppercorn , and deferment rate . my motivation for table new clause 67 stem from what have happen to resident of Lee Court , a purpose - build art deco mansion block in my constituency date back to the early 1930 . many will remember the cold snap at the start of the year , when temperature go below zero and Arctic wind sweep across the country . until mid - January , resident of Lee Court have not have any heating all winter . furthermore , they do not have access to hot water for week and , prior to that , hot water provision be very patchy . this have seriously impact many vulnerable resident , include the elderly , young family , people with medical condition and many other . leaseholder at Lee Court repeatedly raise these issue with Drivers & Norris , the block ' s former manage agent , and Grandpex , the building ' s freeholder that have ultimate responsibility for the central heating system , yet little progress be make until it come to my attention and the attention of the national medium . the resident ' plight include : a neglect communal area ; a door lead to the roof that be hang off its hinge ; broken window ; expose opening for rodent ; weed and plant grow through the drain ; roof leak ; damp , mould and rot in communal area ; and the lack of heating and hot water that I have already mention . even though my constituent have now take on the building maintenance and appoint a new manage agent , this situation illustrate the difficulty for leaseholder in secure recourse from freeholder who have responsibility for central heating and other maintenance issue . as a result , my new clause 67 seek to open up a discussion on how to ensure that such situation never happen again to resident . it would require the Secretary of State to commission an independent evaluation on hold freeholder financially liable for long - last central communal heating failure , where the freeholder have a responsibility for this upkeep . it be important for the Government to know that I be not ask for they to impose measure straightaway , but rather that I want they to pay close attention to the problem at hand via an independent evaluation . there be clearly something wrong when vulnerable resident be leave without heat for month on end despite raise their concern with the manage agent . the only way they seem to be hear be by go to the medium , and that be not acceptable . resident ' health and wellbeing need be put at risk by the failure to restore Lee Court ' s central heating . the Government have a duty to look at how we can rectify this situation , so that it never happen again . will the Minister say whether he would like to strengthen the voice of leaseholder ? leaseholder would like that — they need it . more widely , this overdue Bill be welcome , but the Government ' s plan reform do not go far enough . this be why I particularly support new clause 5 which would abolish the right of forfeiture in respect of residential long lease where the leaseholder be in breach of covenant . I have hear the Minister say that the Government be work on this and will be look at the issue , but the Law Commission propose a repeal in 2006 and there have be no action to progress this for some 18 year . additionally , amendment 4 and 5 , on deferment rate , be very important , because during a housing and cost of living crisis , with many family struggle to get by , it be important for leaseholder to acquire their freehold or extend their lease at the low possible cost . lastly , amendment 8 be important , because we must ensure that all leaseholder , not just those with residential lease of 150 year or over , have the right to vary their lease to replace their rent with a peppercorn rent . that be because the most common form of lease be those of 90 , 99 and 125 year , and so the Bill , as it stand , will mean that leaseholder with the most common form of lease will not be able to enjoy the right to vary their ground rent to a peppercorn . in conclusion , in contrast to the Government ' s approach , a Labour Government will enact the Law Commission ' s recommendation in full . labour will make commonhold the default tenure for all new property , in order to reform the leasehold system fundamentally and comprehensively . in my constituency , what have happen to the resident of Lee Court show that the current leasehold system be not work . I suggest that the Government accept my new clause , as well as the labour amendment . I rise to speak to new clause 13 , 23 and 41 , which stand in my name . I wish to place on record my thank to those right hon . and hon . member who support I with my amendment and to the Public Bill Office for assist with advice on their drafting . today ' s Bill be important and I think we would all agree that it be long - await . I speak on Second Reading , when I declare that I , like probably many other here , be one of almost 5 million leaseholder in this country . I be also one of the many who have go through that awfully stressful process of extend a lease — that be prior to my be an MP . what I have learn since become an MP be that the issue of leasehold affect not just London and our great city , but constituent in place such as Aldridge - Brownhills . it affect people who have buy a house on a leasehold basis and many apartment block that be build perhaps 20 or 30 year ago . that be why I have take such a keen interest in this piece of legislation . buy a home be the big financial commitment that most people will make in their lifetime , but they be probably unaware of some of the complication they may experience later down the line . I raise many question on Second Reading and I write to the Secretary of State . my hon . friend the Minister have be very engaged with I , but I gently say to the Department that a bit more engagement with Back - Bench Members would help enormously . that say , I be clear that I want the Bill to succeed , although in common with many other hon . member I still believe it could and should go far . I will not push my amendment to a vote today , but I want to make a few point in relation to they . on new clause 13 , the prohibition on new leasehold home within three month of the passage of the Act , I appreciate and welcome what the Minister say from the Dispatch Box . the Government have long be commit to the provision in that new clause and I have seek clarity about what exactly they intend to do . I have hear welcome news today , but I will continue to press the point about commonhold because that matter . move forward , if we be to continue to look at this legislation and get it through this place , we will have to revisit this topic to ensure we get the good for our constituent , whatever type of housing or home they live in . new clause 23 seek a report on disadvantage suffer by exist leaseholder . in effect it be the sunset clause I refer to on Second Reading . the extent of the number of leaseholder who start the process of extend their lease during the passage of the Bill and the impact on they be unclear . many will have be wait to see the outcome of this legislation . quite feasibly , that group will include people who have be force to extend their lease in order to sell their home because , as we know , it be very difficult , if not impossible , to get a mortgage on a short lease . I be certain some leaseholder will not have be able to wait for the Bill to reach Royal Assent . such leaseholder risk be seriously disadvantage , so new clause 23 would take step to assess and remedy any unfairness by consider issue such as marriage value , legal cost and other charge . I do not think we fully appreciate the size of this group compare to the number of people who will extend their leasehold after Royal Assent . similarly , new clause 41 seek to redress the imbalance and unfairness of marriage value for those leaseholder who extend their lease many year ago or prior to the Bill pass through this place . by seek to produce a report on disadvantage due to payment of marriage value , I hope we can well understand the extent of some of challenge around a system that , as we have hear today , be feudal , difficult to navigate and have disadvantage many leaseholder over the year . it be important that we do not lose sight of the need to address the issue of marriage value . the fourth area of concern be grind rent . I do not table an amendment on this issue but I will touch on it again . many colleague on both side of the House have mention it . the Minister be clear in his response to I , but we need to continue to push forward for change . I will support the Bill and I welcome the step that have be take . however , from the many example that colleague on both side of the Chamber have highlight today and the example we have all see send to our inboxe by constituent , particularly around the challenge of service charge , it be clear that we need to go far . I will continue to gently nudge the Minister ; he be nod his head . he do a really good job and I be certain he get the issue , but let we continue to work together for the benefit of our constituent . I have nine member try to catch my eye , so if people speak for about five minute , that will allow everyone to get in roughly equally . there have be some slippage , I can see that . I rise to speak to new clause 24 , which be in my name . it be also consider in Committee . I be most grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) for move it there and to the Minister for his response . I be also grateful to the hon . member for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) and the right hon . member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) who have add their name to the new clause on the Order Paper . I thank the Minister for his reply in Committee , but I think he miss the crucial central point of the amendment . at the moment , the risk of exposure to asbestos in a workplace be manage by the Control of Asbestos Regulations 2012 , which be monitor by the Health and Safety Executive . for every workplace under those regulation , there be a duty holder responsible for monitor the condition of the asbestos . they be require to keep up - to - date record of the location and condition of all asbestos - contain material , to provide that information to anybody liable to disturb the material , and to develop a plan for manage any risk that arise . residential block with a commercial freeholder will generally also have a duty holder , because the block will have be for they a workplace , so it be cover by the Control of Asbestos Regulations . it be usually the freeholder or their agent who be the duty holder . that duty holder be responsible for all the common area in the block , such as foyer and staircase . the effectiveness of this whole regime be debatable . the sixth report in the 2021 - 22 Session of the Work and Pensions Committee express considerable reservation . it be doubtful , I think , that the Health and Safety Executive be do enough to monitor compliance , and the assumption that leave asbestos in place be well than remove it be increasingly questionable as the asbestos age . none the less , there be at least a clear regime for manage the risk . the concern that motivate this new clause be that , follow a transfer of the kind make possible and facilitate by the Bill , there will no long be a duty holder for the communal area in such a block . at the moment there be , but the responsibility will be entirely extinguish , as far as I understand it , on transfer . the asbestos be still go to be there , the risk will remain , but nobody will any long be responsible for manage they . understandably , no individual resident will take on the responsibility , but there will be no corporate entity to do it either . in fact , it may be bad than that . the resident may well not be aware before the transfer be complete that they be take on both a financial liability for manage the asbestos in the communal area , and possibly a risk to life as well . it be important to bear it in mind that we be see 5 , 000 death per year at the moment as a result of past exposure to asbestos . in his response in Committee , the Minister say that the amendment would " duplicate the exist duty in regulation 4 of the Control of Asbestos Regulations 2012 for landlord to survey the common area of their property " . — [ Official Report , Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill Public Bill Committee , 30 January 2024 ; c . 461 . ] however , the newly enfranchise property would not fall any long under regulation 4 . there would be no landlord to survey the common area once the transfer have take place . new clause 24 aim to prevent this problem from occur . it require landlord to perform a detailed survey of the asbestos present in the building within three month of a transfer take place and then require the landlord to remove any asbestos that be there . there be a 150 % tax relief for business remove asbestos from their premise , so removal will not be costly for landlord . it will save newly enfranchise leaseholder from a large and probably unexpected liability and a potentially lethal long - term risk . I hope that make the case for this change clear . I be grateful to the Minister for his assistance with the resident of Barrier Point in my constituency . I think we have a meeting in his office next month . last night , I have my regular Zoom call with leaseholder from Waterside Park in my constituency . before Christmas , we think we have a clear way forward . Barratt , the builder , have sign up and Aviva , the current freeholder , be happy , but last night we learn of the requirement that the Building Safety Regulator to look at any proposal for a minimum of eight week , which will substantially delay the work that have be commit to . will the Minister look at whether it be really necessary for resident who have be wait so long for these problem to be resolve to wait another eight week ? I fully support the Government ' s wish to overhaul the antiquated and feudal leasehold system in this country and address the imbalance of power between freeholder and leaseholder . I thank the Minister for his ongoing discussion with I about a number of issue I have with the Bill , and for attend the leasehold roundtable that I hold recently with my constituent . I would like the Government to abolish the system completely , but I understand that that will not happen with this Bill . I have therefore table an amendment and three new clause that would improve the Bill far . new clause 12 would reduce the participation threshold require to claim the right to manage from 50 % to 35 % . that be a massive issue in Cities of London and Westminster . More than 1 , 300 property in the City of London and an eye - watering 12 , 100 in Westminster have owner live abroad or be own by company use central London ' s golden postcode as a place to park their cash . that reduce the ability of leaseholder in those block to secure the 50 % of signature require to achieve the right to manage , as it be incredibly difficult to contact those overseas leaseholder for a meaningful discussion . let I give an example of that type of dilemma in my constituency . resident in the Quadrangle in the Hyde Park Estate say that leaseholder in their block will struggle to meet the 50 % participation threshold . they estimate that at least 40 % of leaseholder in their block do not live in the building and be uncontactable . accept new clause 12 and lower the threshold to 35 % would give many more leaseholder live in similar block the chance to manage their building . I commend the work that have be do on the Bill to support block that have share commercial and residential usage . the Bill propose to increase the proportion of commercial or non - residential space permit in an individual block for a right to manage application from 25 % to 50 % , but I believe we can go even far . I have hear from many resident whose block will fail to qualify even after the threshold rise to 50 % . for example , resident of 8 Artillery row in Victoria believe that increase the threshold to 50 % do not go far enough , as the residential element of their block be low than 50 % . that be why amendment 17 be need , as it would allow resident in a block with up to 75 % commercial premise to apply for the right to manage . new clause 14 be similarly design to allow more leaseholder to strive for the right to manage , especially those in mixed - use building . simply share a broom cupboard with a commercial property can disqualify they from claim the right to manage . at Cambridge Court in Marylebone , for example , leaseholder strive to manage their block would benefit from the Government ' s proposal to increase the non - residential threshold allow in a building , but they be concerned that their ability to qualify for the right to manage would be undermine by the existence of a single share car parking space in their building . my new clause 14 would amend the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 by adopt recommendation 5 from the Law Commission ' s " right to manage " report , which be to allow leaseholder in mixed - use building with share service or underground car park to exercise the right to manage . finally , my new clause 15 would correct the unintended consequence of the Building Safety Act 2022 . that Act have interfere with the long - stand section 24 regime , which be a vital right for leaseholder . it introduce an accountable person mechanism that expressly ban section 24 manager from be the accountable person . consequently , specially train and vet professional property manager willing to take on difficult site have be bar from be the accountable person . that make absolutely no sense , and it strip leaseholder of an exist right . that could not have be the Government ' s intention when they introduce the 2022 Act , which be intend to provide leaseholder with additional statutory protection . so many leaseholder in my constituency and across the country would benefit from apply for a section 24 manager , but they can not risk it if they be in block of 18 metre or high because of the accountable person regime issue arise from the Building Safety Act . it be imperative that our building be safe , that leaseholder be safe , and that the burden do not fall heavily on leaseholder . I will not press my amendment to a vote , but I hope that the Government will consider what I have speak about and work with I to introduce the measure in the other place . this be a watershed moment for the Government to prove that they understand the terrible treatment that leaseholder have face and continue to face by incompetent freeholder , and to address the imbalance between freeholder and leaseholder . I hope that the Bill will deliver real change . I rise to speak to new clause 1 , which be table in my name , and in support of a number of new clause and amendment table by right hon . and hon . member from both side of the House . I table new clause 1 because , as be say by the hon . member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) , who be no long in his place , fleecehold be a scam . it attempt to deal with the issue whereby a freeholder be trap in a situation where they pay estate management charge for the area around their development , be they road , play area or open space . critically , the new clause also deal with the share asset that might be in use to service their home , such as ground source heat pump , septic tank or sewage pump . I be sure that there be many instance in which the management company do a great job and charge reasonable fee for its work , but my inbox — like those of many hon . member — contain horrify example of the management company , which be usually directly own by or relate to the developer in North Shropshire , fail to do a good job , or to do any sort of job at all . there be a freeholder in my constituency , for example , who must obtain an information pack from their estate management company in order to sell their house . despite repeat request , my constituent have not receive that information pack , so their sale have be significantly delay and be at risk of fall through altogether . the management company be apparently just a shell — it do not respond to correspondence , hold annual general meeting or provide account — so the affected resident be powerless and can not take control of the company and appoint a reliable professional to provide the service that they so desperately need . new clause 1 would allow they , where the management company have go awol and will not respond to anything that they request of it , to take control of the company and do those thing themselves . the new clause also extend to asset , which may be more of a rural problem when it come to share estate charge . in one example in my constituency , a developer instal a ground source heat pump to provide all the heating and hot water for a barn conversion development that involve several house in the same set of barn . that developer have two separate company : one be the management company through which he charge the owner of those house for their electricity bill , and another , totally separate company that be nothing to do with the sale process , which be where he place the heat pump . as such , he be able to cream off all the renewable heat incentive income for himself ; he provide account to resident through the management company , but do not provide they with any information about the fundamental asset that be service their home . those resident be unable to benefit from the renewable heat incentive that accrue from that asset , and do not know whether it be be properly maintain and service . they be unable to do so themselves — they have no right in relation to that heat pump . that be quite a complex situation , in which I suspect fraud may also be involve , but there be other example where resident be unable to get their street light fix or their pothole sort out , or where drainage be a huge problem , and they can not get any kind of response from the management company responsible . new clause 1 would allow resident to take over their estate management company in such instance , which would hopefully provide management company with a significant disincentive to fail to provide the service that they be presumably make quite a lot of money out of . crucially , new clause 1 would also enable those trap in exist arrangement to exit they . as other member have mention , once people with a full - time job have buy a home , they do not have time to endlessly chase up their management company and take they to court and tribunal over service that that company have fail to provide . one of the resident I have be deal with say to I , " I just don ' t have the time to deal with this . I ' m a full - time truck driver . " the idea behind new clause 1 be to make it easy for those people to take control of those company and take control of their own life . as have already be point out , it be very worrying that these arrangement have be allow to proliferate across the country . many resident be now pay both council tax and service charge for street lighting , grass cutting and drain clearing that would normally be provide by a local authority . those people be literally pay more for the same service ; that be indefensible , and million of people be trap in those arrangement . amendment 18 , table by the hon . member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , attempt to address that issue by prevent such charge from form part of the estate management charge . that would certainly disincentivise developer from use that model , but although it be beyond the scope of the Bill , I urge the Government to prevent those awful arrangement from happen in the first place . it be much well for a road to be adopt and maintain by the local authority so that everybody be pay for the same service on the same level playing field . where people have a share asset and be trap by an estate management company , if their developer have fail to pay a section 106 fee , they be also on the hook for that money . I have resident in my constituency who have a charge of £ 30 , 000 over their share area for a section 106 fee that be not pay , and other resident pay £ 1 million between 14 people to bring a sewage pump up to standard because it be an environmental health hazard . if those problem have not be allow to occur in the first place — if the local authority have have to require a financial bond to be place so that , if the development be not up to scratch when it be finish , the local authority have the money to bring it up to scratch and adopt it — those resident would not be in that awful situation . I really encourage the Government to take that away and think about how we can protect people in the future . I draw to the hon . Lady ' s attention and that of the Minister the article by Patrick Hosking in the Times today , which deal with estate management company and estate management charge . I hope that the Government will read what he have write and see what they can do to make thing well . I thank the hon . Gentleman very much for his intervention . I will conclude by say that I support the amendment that would require professionalisation of the industry — that would be very sensible and consistent with other legislation that the House have pass . I also support new clause 5 and amendment 4 and 8 , table by the shadow Minister , the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) ; new clause 39 , table by the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) ; and new clause 25 , table by the Father of the House , the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) . the Bill go some way towards provide the protection that we need , but it need to go much far to protect freeholder from rogue developer and estate management company . I urge the Government to take that away and do more . to protect the last six speaker and protect ministerial time as well , there be now a five - minute limit on speech , which will give the Front Benchers sufficient time to respond . it be a great pleasure to serve on the Public Bill Committee on this Bill . we have a great debate , and there be actually a lot of agreement across the Committee Room . these be deeply conservative reform , champion by none other than Mrs Thatcher , start in 1965 , which she continue to do throughout opposition and during her premiership . I gently say to Opposition Members , of whatever party , that they must not fall into the trap of make this a political football . they must engage with the seriousness and complexity of these reform , in part because , as we have hear , they do very little to advance these very significant reform during their own time in office . I suspect that they back away from it because of the very significant legal challenge they would have face , as we ourselves will no doubt face . pretend they do not exist be not a serious position . I say to the Minister and the Secretary of State , who be aware of my comment , that we must not buckle , but must continue to take this forward . it be great to see the package of amendment lay by the Government , particularly new clause 42 , which be a ban on leasehold house . I want the Minister to think carefully about how he will address the inevitable imbalance in the creation of a two - tier system , in which some people will have the freehold of their house , but some will not . there be an additional imbalance between flat in our urban area and new freehold house . that point be very well make by James Vitali in a Policy Exchange report . I be slightly worried about the omission from this of retirement property , so perhaps the Minister could return to that . in Committee , I speak about the need to truly move towards a commonhold system . I think the Opposition ' s new clause 11 be something of that nature . I very much hope that , as the Bill go through complete its stage , the Government — here or in the other place — can look at that suggestion . I think we do need to set out the future legislative scaffold for our fifth term in office , and to build on the work we have do so that we can finally get rid of this leasehold system . other Members have mention a lot of the point I would have make about share service . my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) raise that , and it be one of my concern . my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) have do a fantastic job in talk about the lack of adoption by local authority . there be also new clause 7 , which I know be again an Opposition amendment , and new clause 1 and 2 . this problem be not go to go away . it be a blight on many homeowner in Redditch , and it also go to the heart of our planning system . we really do need to look at that ; we can not pretend that it be go to solve itself . I thank the Minister for write to I about one of my concern , which be litigation cost . I think new clause 3 look at that . he have reassure I that what be in this Bill will go the distance in ensure that leaseholder be not subject to unjust litigation cost by their landlord . that be one of the case highlight by Liam Spender and many other . these be hugely complex issue , but we must tackle they . I want to see ground rent reduce to a peppercorn . it be pure extortion , and a feudal relic from medieval time when people be serf and work the land . we should not have this in 2024 , or in any year . I refuse to believe that there be not a way , through the wit of man and the considerable intelligence of Ministers on the Front Bench , to solve the issue , perhaps where some financial asset be hold in pension fund . I do not buy the pretence of that incredible con artist Mr Steve Whybrow and his outfit that somehow we be robbing pensioner . I would urge anybody with an interest in this debate to look at the genuine pensioner who be fight for the right to have pure enjoyment of their own property , which they richly deserve after a lifetime of working . I will make my final remark on forfeiture : it must go . the forfeiture of a long lease can not be right . it can not be right that a freeholder can hold this nuclear bomb over somebody such as Dennis Jackson , a pensioner , of Plantation Wharf . he dispute a £ 6 , 000 service charge , which lead to an £ 80 , 000 legal bill , and he have his £ 800 , 000 flat forfeit during a 10 - minute hearing at Wandsworth court . I thank the Knowledge Leasehold Partnership for all the work it have do to help he . that just simply can not be right , and we must address it . I want to see we finally finish the job that Mrs Thatcher start when she be Opposition Housing spokesman in 1965 . we must finish that job , and I thank the Minister for all the work he have do so far . I feel for the Minister today , because he must be kick himself . this be probably one of the few debate I have hear in this place recently where I have not hear a bad idea . as constituency mp , we see time and again the problem cause by retain this feudal system of leasehold , and I suspect that the Minister , who have be look at this issue for some time , be kick himself because what he would really like to do be abolish the whole thing . indeed , today we have hear support from across the House to do just that . in the short time available , let I say again to he that he would have our support to move to commonhold . he talk about how commonhold be probably the well model , and for those of we live in the vortex of gentrification , where thousand of flat have be build in our community , this be an incredibly pressing issue . we know that the casework we have see over the past few year will expand as a result of leasehold continue . that be why I wish to see the Government change their mind , perhaps in the other place , about get rid of leasehold altogether , and why I have be press my local authority to listen to concern of local resident who be stick with leasehold , and change our local plan to make commonhold the default . I hope that they have hear this debate and will rethink their opposition to that . I support the amendment in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , and wish to draw the Minister ' s attention to two new clause that I have table on issue with the exist system and the problem that leaseholder face . with 12 , 000 leaseholder in Walthamstow , I know that these issue will come up time and again . new clause 2 be about the fact that although we have leasehold legislation , it do not tally with our consumer legislation . leaseholder pay a service charge . they have a contract with freehold management company to oversee problem in their property , but few resident feel empower to access right that exist under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 to have a reasonable service within a reasonable timeframe for repair . today , colleague across the House have give countless example of that , so let I add my own , which be where my propose new clause have come from . I be sorry that my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) be not here . she talk about Lee Court and new clause 67 , but resident in Essex Brewery in Walthamstow have be without hot water and heating since before Christmas . indeed , they be still without hot water and heating , with little sight of any change . Essex Brewery be build just five year ago . it have become apparent that the build by Crest Nicholson be poor at good , and a downright con at worst . until January this year , Crest Nicholson be on the management committee and make more than £ 100 million in profit in the year that Essex Brewery be build . it have make half that this year — possibly less — because of widespread concern about the condition of the build it have make . what do someone do when they have buy possibly their first home , whether through shared ownership or leasehold , as hundred do in that development , and they find that the pipe that bring in the hot water be faulty ? I be sorry to say that those resident have little redress , because the management company , Kinleigh Folkard and Hayward — another multimillion pound organisation — leave they without any explanation of why it would not repair the hot water until after Christmas . what a Christmas present that be . the Grinch have strong competition . that be another layer of bureaucracy . KFH be appoint by the Essex Brewery management company , which be establish by the freeholder , Helpfavour , to meet those obligation . KFH tell the resident that because their insurance policy say that as long as they have water at all , the property be habitable and it be not go to do anything about it . that have leave hundred of resident , many of they vulnerable , for month on end without any hot water or heating in the current weather . resident have have to boil kettle to get hot water to cleanse their baby , or pay bill that they can not afford for extra heating through portable heater . for those who have share ownership it be even more complicated . Metropolitan Thames Valley state that it own 24 of those property and that it be prohibit by law from fix the problem . new clause 2 be about match consumer legislation with leasehold legislation , and give resident the right of redress , not say , " you ' ve either get to buy out the leaseholder if you want some property control , or you be stick with they and wait to see . " I hope KFH hear this debate and be ashamed of its behaviour . amendment 1 be about leasehold tribunal . I know the Minister speak of precedent setting , but resident across the country would tell he otherwise . I beg he to look at the Warner property in Walthamstow , and at Y & Y management , which repeatedly rip off constituent across the country . the hon . member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) be not here , but he ask why people have to pay terrorism insurance . in Walthamstow that be the Warner estate company , which say that because the plane bomber live in our constituency , 3 , 000 household have to buy terrorism insurance . such case come up time and again with leasehold and they do not get fix in the tribunal . amendment 1 would give precedent . for some of my Chelmsford constituent , these provision can not come soon enough . one constituent tell I how he buy his leasehold flat seven year ago , but now he and his wife want to move to a big home to start a family and progress their life . for the past three year , they have be unable to sell their flat . they have try list the property with many different estate agent and have many offer , but no buyer can get a mortgage on the property due to a clause in the lease that mean the ground rent can be double every 15 year . accord to my constituent , nobody in this block of 20 flat have be able to sell a property since 2018 . they feel stuck . another constituent in another block of flat say that her family of three and a dog have be try to move out of their one - bedroom flat for more than two year . because the ground rent exceed the £ 250 arbitrary threshold set for property outside of London , buyer can not get a mortgage , because if a leaseholder be to default on the ground rent , the landlord would have the right to repossess . the family have try deed of variation , indemnity policy and multiple mortgage lender , all to no avail . mortgage company value the flat at literally zero . for most people , buy one ' s own home be mean to give security and stability , choice and freedom , but for these leaseholder , life be more like be lock in a time warp . they be trap in a prison of their own property , unable to move on . I therefore welcome the measure in the Bill and the amendment that the Government have table today . I have listen carefully to what my hon . friend the Member for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) and other have say about forfeiture and what the Minister say about cap on ground rent . the Minister need to go far on this issue . another group of leaseholder be struggle live in king Tower , a 12 - storey building with a small amount of combustible insulation on the spandrel panel on the outside of the building . it might need remedial work to remove and replace it . I think it be shocking that seven year after Grenfell Tower , a huge company — Barratt — and the property management company , Estates and Management Ltd , have still not carry out this remediation work . one of the leaseholder , Richard , email I today . he say that back in 2009 , the service charge be just £ 800 a year . this year , he think he will have to pay £ 4 , 000 . Richard and other leaseholder be first tell of the potential issue in August 2020 . he say that since then , they have be unable to fulfil any form of normal life , due to these additional fire safety issue and the cost . he say : " I genuinely feel ill to think of what our service charge demand be go to be in March this year " . as well as increase in insurance , Barratt and E & M Ltd be blame the increase on the cost need to register the building under the new regulation of the Building Safety Act 2022 . I thank the Minister for his letter to I on this subject . even though paragraph 9 of schedule 8 be mean to protect leaseholder from the cost of legal and other professional service , it be clear that my constituent and many other feel that they be be gouge for excessive cost . finally , some freeholder also face issue . there be some truly stunning residential development in Chelmsford , where the park and public area be beautifully maintain by estate management company , but that be not universal . I note that FirstPort have be name by my neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , as a company that be particularly difficult to deal with , even for a Member of Parliament , and I agree with she . it be so hard for freeholder to hold management company to account and to ensure that maintenance be do well and that the cost charge be reasonable . I be therefore glad that this Bill will also include measure to give freeholder access to support via redress scheme and to require estate management company to be transparent . when more leaseholder become freeholder — as I truly hope they will thank to the change bring in by this Bill — we need to ensure that these terrible practice be not just pass on to freeholder , but that freeholder also have these right and the ability for redress . the amendment table by the Government — new clause 30 to 32 in particular — will offer my constituent some hope and a quick mean of redress on many of the point raise in the House ' s discussion . I will press the Minister on some concern raise by my leaseholder constituent and by all colleague on the whole issue of remediation of defect , and transparency and accountability . at one development in my constituency that open in 2019 — now a significant period of time ago — the resident experience a shocking case of misery and distress . the problem include water ingress , damp and mould , with child get sick as a result , which be unforgiveable . there be also : damage sprinkler system ; defective and non - compliant fire door , which be unthinkable in this day and age ; inadequate insulation — we have hear about water pipe and the lack of heating and cold water ; roofing issue ; damage gate ; and poor ground maintenance . on top of that , when someone raise a complaint , guess what happen ? nobody do anything about it . however , whenever constituent get a letter , it be about their service fee increase — it happen all the time . that be not acceptable . the resident seek redress , but it just do not happen . not only be they frustrated but we see a clear issue with buck pass ; that be shameful and must be address . this property be a permit development , and we should pause for thought on that . I be pro such development — we need more of they — but we must ensure that charlatan do not come along and exploit people who be desperate to buy their first home , with all sort of thing happen in the building . I have have report from resident who have purchase their property more recently , and guess what ? they be not inform of all the defect and the problem go on . that be simply scandalous . I want to mention again FirstPort — this should be a topic of wide debate in the House — and management company . I be meet FirstPort at the weekend . again , why do these company feel that they can be let off the hook ? they will not engage effectively . in one case , leaseholder of a site in Stanway be not notify of a change in management company for about half a year . every single colleague in the House will have case of that nature . FirstPort have refuse request to hold annual general meeting and have be lack in visibility . if I may , I will praise Councillor Kevin Bentley , my county council leader , who be a divisional member for the area in question and have secure a public meeting for the weekend . it will be the first point when we have be able to get in the room with these people to seek redress . contractor come in , and people be charge for monitor work that never take place — it go on and on . I be grateful to the Minister for how he open the debate , and speak frankly about the issue and concern . I have a suggestion to put to he . yesterday it be announce that the Competition and Markets Authority will look into the practice of house builder and whether there have be collusion in pricing and the development of scheme . may I suggest that it might be worth look into management company ? many of those house builder come part and parcel with the management company . the house builder do the negotiation with the management company , and there be a lack of transparency . should we be look at more open book contract around management company , with detail of how they be bring on board by the developer publish , so that there be great transparency for the purchaser ? that be really important . as the Minister ' s Department have already enlist the CMA , he may wish to ask it to look at that important area as well . I hope that he can respond to some of those point when he sum up . all hon . member be grateful for the chance to raise these point , which speak to the totality of what we be see — a sense of a lack of fairness for many of our constituent , which the Government be clearly press in the right direction and seek redress . I very much welcome the Bill , which address the frustration express by a great many leaseholder in my constituency . I thank Suzy Killip from the Pembroke Park Residents Association and Jo Tapper at the Sigers , both of whom have face significant challenge while represent their community and take forward issue arise from the management and lack of service often provide to they under their lease arrangement . I would particularly like to thank Ministers , because this legislation take into account the way that the market have change . many year ago I start my career as a financial adviser , deal with people take out mortgage . one stark change be the extent to which leasehold be see as an opportunity to extract money from people as investment to be trade by freeholder , on the basis of extract the maximum possible amount rather than ensure good quality of service . I be involve in case as a local authority councillor , where part of the planning agreement be that road , park and open space would be bring up to an appropriate standard to be adopt by the local authority . once the development be complete , an opportunity be spot by the developer and , therefore , people who have move in on the understanding that the local authority would take over — because the road be build to adoptable standard , for example — find that it do not happen because it be see as an investment opportunity . that be very much in line with the rip - off refer to by member across the House . I commend Ministers on take a balanced approach on the need to recognise a link between the arrangement in the Bill and our housing supply . the UK have the old housing stock in Europe . the ability of freeholder of large development to regenerate site where property that have be rent be fall vacant over a period of time could be inhibit if there be a proliferation of small freehold on those type of site . if we be to ensure that the quality of our housing , in particular energy efficiency , be bring up to a good standard , it must still be possible for large site to be regenerate . we must not inhibit that completely while address a different concern about the right and freedom of leaseholder . I mention some constituent early ; the situation in particular at Pembroke Park be a good example of why the reform in this legislation be so important . the development be construct on a former military site by Taylor Wimpey , and hand over to be manage by A2Dominion housing association , with a mix of social housing tenant and private leaseholder . there be umpteen issue still more than a decade after the completion of that site , and issue simply get A2Dominion to respond to problem include insulation that be never instal in building to the building regulation standard , a complete failure to ensure that proper ventilation be instal in the building , and drain that be completely inadequate . there have be progress , but I would add A2Dominion to the list of company raise by other member . I commend A2Dominion ' s relatively new chief executive , Ian Wardle , on the progress that he be make , but it remain a huge challenge to my constituent , and a huge frustration , that as opaque charge rise and rise , the action of that organisation make it incredibly difficult even to understand whether the basic legal protection that they enjoy under exist legislation be be observe , include how insurance cost be apportion across a very large property portfolio . I strongly support the point make around forfeiture provision . a number of constituent have come to I with significant challenge and justifiable concern about the rise service charge on their property . it be completely unacceptable that they would forfeit a significant amount of value that they have pay for and earn — potentially to fall to the developer . that be another opportunity for the shamelessly greedy to rip off our constituent . I be very glad that this legislation and the comment make by member across the House today will represent a significant step towards end that practice . thousand of homeowner in my constituency and million across the country who face estate management charge will have their right substantially increase thank to the provision in this Bill . I be extremely grateful to the Prime Minister , the Secretary of State , the Minister and his predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , for include estate management charge in this Bill . that be extraordinarily timely , give the finding release this week by the Competition and Markets Authority . in its final report , it state : " as a result of the emergence of the private management model , and the market power confer on some management company , household be face financial and emotional detriment , and , if the status quo be maintain , this be likely to worsen over time . " it propose that the government of the UK and the devolved authority look at two area of measure . the first be to " provide great protection to household live under private management arrangement . " that be what this Bill seek to do . I know that the Minister have some card up his sleeve — on forfeiture , right to manage and probably a host of other thing — and I hope that he will shake some of they loose as the Bill move up to the upper House . secondly , the Competition and Markets Authority make two recommendation to prevent the proliferation of private management arrangement for new housing estate . the first be to " implement common adoptable standard for public amenity on new housing estate " , and the second be to " implement mandatory adoption of public amenity on new housing estate " . that sound good , but it also sound a long time away . we know that this issue be grow rapidly , so my amendment 18 seek to stop it in its track by say that homeowner may not have pass on to they charge for any service or provision that be usually the recourse of the local authority . I can not for the life of I understand why the opposition be not support this amendment . I know that it be a bit of a club and not very nuanced , but it get to the heart of the matter . could the Minister therefore reassure the opposition , as well as I and other Back Benchers , that he will look at what the Bill can do to make progress on some of the measure mention by the Competition and Markets Authority ? I know that he want to do that ; I just hope that he can go as far as he can . I will now turn to the propose treatment of marriage value . there be a concern , which have be stress a number of time , that the decision we be make through this Bill be base on limited information on important economic effect . one example be the ability give to the Secretary of State to decide option for the future of ground rent . that be raise in response to the recent consultation . another be how the Government might determine the appropriate rate for the deferment and capitalisation rate , and there be a range of unquantified effect in the Bill ' s impact assessment . in Committee , I try to learn a bit more about whether marriage value be a real thing . it be a real thing : it be enshrine in legislation in 2002 and , prior to that , in 1993 . the Bill do not abolish marriage value ; it transfer it . in fact , it be not possible to abolish marriage value ; in math , it be an optional value — it have real value . this be a decision not to abolish something , but to take it from one group of stakeholder and give it to another . it be a £ 7 billion transfer of wealth from one group to another , and under the provision of the Bill it would be retrospective on contract already enter into . that be a perfectly legitimate public policy position if we wish to take it , but I say to the Minister that as currently propose it be fraught with legal risk and legal jeopardy . my amendment would provide a safe passage for this Bill on its way to become law . it would ensure that any lease below 80 year at the time the Act be pass would continue to have marriage value , but any lease that go below 80 year after the Act have pass would not . I ask the Minister to consider that as the Bill move to its next stage . with the leave of the House , let I start by thank all member for their contribution to the debate . the breadth of discussion across the House have show that while we can discuss precisely how far we should go , there be a general consensus that progress need to be make , and I think all member will accept that it have be and be be make in the Bill . my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) table new clause 25 , and he be right to say that it deal with an important issue . as he say , a consultation be open , and we will review the response very seriously . I urge anyone whose view be as strong as those express by my hon . friend to contribute to the consultation , so that we can consider the issue in the round . the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) speak passionately about his new clause 39 and 40 , and I understand the point that he be make . I hope that some of the change introduce in the Bill will make the acquisition of freehold much easy . we have discuss regularly the need for a disincentive for freeholder not to respond or to " go slow " , which should mean that the right to first refusal fall away to the extent that it be no long necessary . I be sorry to hear about the problem experience by the constituent of my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) . he be kind enough to mention they to I early , but I would be happy to meet he as he request , because I recognise that the specific matter that he raise be important to his constituent , and we need to look into it in more detail . the hon . member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) , who serve on the Bill Committee , make many useful point . I can not do justice to all of they , but I be happy to continue the discussion about Daejan Holdings and building safety to ensure that , if there be an issue that the Government have not work through fully , we understand the detail well . the hon . member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) , my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) and my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) highlight the huge inequity that be affect individual in individual block in their constituency . that inequity be exactly the reason why we must make progress , and I hope that the Bill be a good proposition for that to happen . the hon . member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) be kind enough to give I more detail about the background to her new clause in a separate discussion . what I have hear about from she , and also from the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) — who be not in the Chamber , but who have a similar concern — be absolutely unacceptable . I entirely appreciate the individual concern that be feel , and I be keen to continue our discussion so that we can learn from it for the broad good of the building safety sector in general . my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) table an important new clause about leasehold house . I be glad she recognise that the Government have now introduce measure to deal with the issue that she raise . she also raise two important point about report , and I be keen to meet she so that we can discuss those further and , in particular , discuss the impact involve . I can tell the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) that we be look into the issue of the Building Safety Regulator , and I will be happy to talk to he about that when we meet to discuss Barrier Point . since his speech I have check the position on asbestos . we do not believe that that right be extinguish , but if we be not correct I would be keen to talk to he far to ensure that we understand exactly how that regime will work in practice , and to try to assuage his concern . my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) exhort we to move at this watershed moment . I be keen to talk to her far about the participation threshold . she have make a powerful case , both to I in the House today and more broadly , about the importance of ensure that this be workable , particularly in the circumstance that be face in the centre of London . while I entirely understand the point make by the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) about some of these change , I worry about her new clause , and I ask she not to push it to a vote . while her intention be clearly noble , the new clause would put we into a position in which asset be be expropriate for the purpose of something that could be as insufficient as notice of an annual general meeting . I hope that she will reflect on that during the time we have leave before the vote . my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) make a strong point about the need to consider estate management far , and I have give a commitment to do so . FirstPort be raise by a number of member , include my right hon . friend . it may interest the House to know that my hon . friend the Member for Harborough ( Neil o ' Brien ) will lead a Westminster Hall debate on that tomorrow — so same time , same place , same discussion , but an opportunity to consider far the people and organisation that be not do the right thing in this regard . my hon . friend the Member for North East Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) have be an absolutely doughty champion of progress on estate management , and he be absolutely right to do that . his speech demonstrate again the strength of feeling about this issue and , as I say at the Dispatch Box a moment ago , we be consider it far and recognise the importance of do that . I turn to the contribution from the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , who speak for the Opposition . he have table a new clause on forfeiture . I hope that the Government have indicate very clearly that we recognise the significant problem in this area and be work through the detail . although I understand what he be try to do with amendment 4 and 8 , we think it be proportionate to retain the current position that we have set out from the Front Bench , for the same reason as in Committee . my hon . friend the Members for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) and for Harborough make a very clear case about the importance of those on the Government Benches lean into reform . in the time I have leave , know that other party and other tradition represent in this House will make similar case — it be a shared endeavour in this area — I want again to make the conservative case for leasehold reform . build on our proud heritage of reform , it be a Conservative Government who be bring forward the most transformational proposal for improve the life of million of leaseholder . it be a Conservative Government who be build the case for change to deal with the iniquity present on new estate , and who be commit to set ordinary family free from unnecessary burden . it be a Conservative Government who have bring forward one of the most comprehensive change to property in a generation . why have we come forward with these proposal ? it be precisely because it be a conservative thing to do . we be cautious about interfere in the market , for fear of unintended consequence or the creation of barrier . we know that no government can ever fix every problem , but when we be convince about the case for reform , we will fight for it with every sinew . at the heart of be a Conservative be the desire to smash monopoly and remove bad practice . we will celebrate where thing work well , but we will joyfully remove distortion that be exploit by chancer and rogue . we will constrain rent seeker and middleman , who add little to the basic economic exchange of good and service that be at the heart of our economy . fundamentally , we be committed to make our market more perfect and , as a consequence , to set people free to make their own choice , live their life and build their own future . Leasehold have be exploit for far too long by those who have no interest in the good functioning of capitalism . the lack of transparency , clarity and redress in freehold estate charge cause frustration up and down the land , and it do nothing for the efficient functioning of market . that be why we be reform . Adam Smith talk of ground rent as monopolistic in 1776 , Hayek remind we in 1944 of the importance of make competition work and of not accept institution as they stand and , as my hon . friend the Member for Harborough indicate , Margaret Thatcher assert in 1982 that there be no prouder word in our history as Conservatives than " freeholder " . that be the century - long call as to why we have to make further improvement to our property system . with this Bill , in the true spirit of thousand of conservative reform that have make this country well , we be send a clear signal that change for the well be come and will benefit million of people for the long term . that be only possible because of all the hard work of all the official , all the people in the Law Commission and my opposite number , the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich , who have be extremely constructive on this Bill . I give huge thank to Professor Nick Hopkins ; Tom Nicholls and Chris Pulman at the Law Commission ; official in the Department , lead by Robin Froggatt - Smith ; my private office , include Grace Doody ; and member from across the House for their valuable input . although I have just make the conservative case for reform , we know that this be a shared endeavour among we all , which be why there be an unusual amount of unanimity in this place . it demonstrate the importance of our continue to make progress on this issue . as the Bill move to the other place , I hope that those sit in the other place take note of the consensus and keenness here to ensure that progress be make . I hope they also take note of the importance of ensure that the Bill continue and of the very many great reform that be in it already . this demonstrate that together , as a broad group all across this House , we be commit to ensure that leasehold reform happen , that leaseholder get a well deal and that the estate manager , estate management and freehold estate get clear transparency , clear information and a clear understanding of how they can live their life and set themselves free in the future . debate interrupt ( Programme Order , 11 December 2023 ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question already propose from the Chair ( Standing Order no . 83e ) , that the clause be read a second time . question agree to . new clause 26 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . the Deputy Speaker then put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 27 - Part 4 : crown application " ( 1 ) section 66 to 69 ( sale information request ) bind the Crown . ( 2 ) the other provision of this part — ( a ) apply in relation to estate management carry out by , or on behalf of , a government department and otherwise bind the Crown in relation to such estate management , and ( b ) bind the Crown in relation to other estate management only if carry out by , or on behalf of , a person other than the Crown . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert in place of clause 70 , expand the extent to which part 4 bind the Crown . clause 66 to 69 bind the Crown in all respect . the Crown be also bind as respect the other provision of the Part where estate management be carry out by a government department or a person other than the Crown . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 28 - redress scheme : no Crown status " a person exercise function under a redress scheme ( other than the Secretary of State ) be not to be regard as the servant or agent of the Crown or as enjoy any status , privilege or immunity of the Crown or as exempt from any tax , duty , rate , levy or other charge whatsoever , whether general or local , and any property hold by a such a person be not to be regard as property of , or hold on behalf of , the Crown . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after clause 75 , would clarify that people exercise function under a redress scheme do not have Crown status . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 29 - part 5 : amendment to other act " schedule ( part 5 : amendment to other act ) make amendment to other act in connection with this Part . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after clause 80 , would introduce ns1 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 30 - step relate to remediation of defect " ( 1 ) the BSA 2022 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in the heading of section 120 ( meaning of " relevant defect " ) , at the end insert " and " relevant step " " . ( 3 ) in section 120 , after subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 4A ) " relevant step " , in relation to a relevant defect , mean step which have as their purpose — ( a ) prevent or reduce the likelihood of a fire or collapse of the building ( or any part of it ) occur as a result of the relevant defect , ( b ) reduce the severity of any such incident , or ( c ) prevent or reduce harm to people in or about the building that could result from such an incident . " ( 4 ) in schedule 8 ( remediation cost under qualifying lease etc ) , in paragraph 1 ( 1 ) — ( a ) omit the definition of " build safety risk " and " relevant risk " ; ( b ) for the definition of " relevant measure " substitute — " " relevant measure " , in relation to a relevant defect , mean — ( a ) a measure take to remedy the relevant defect , or ( b ) a relevant step take in relation to the relevant defect ; " relevant step " : see section 120 ; " . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause be to be insert as the first clause of a new Part . it amend provision of the Building Safety Act 2022 which be about remediation of build defect . a definition of " relevant step " be add , mean step which be essentially preventative or mitigate ( such as instal a fire alarm ) rather than remedy the defect . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 31 - remediation order " ( 1 ) section 123 of the BSA 2022 ( remediation order ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for " remedy specify relevant defect in a specified relevant building by a specified time " substitute " do one or both of the following by a specified time — ( a ) remedy specify relevant defect in a specified relevant building ; ( b ) take specify relevant step in relation to a specified relevant defect in a specified relevant building . " ( 3 ) for subsection ( 6 ) substitute — " ( 6 ) in this section — " relevant building " : see section 117 ; " relevant defect " : see section 120 ; " relevant step " : see section 120 ; " specified " mean specify in the order . " ( 4 ) after subsection ( 7 ) insert — " ( 8 ) in proceeding for a remediation order , a direction give by the first - tier Tribunal require a relevant landlord to provide or produce an expert report be to be regard as a decision for the purpose of subsection ( 7 ) . ( 9 ) in subsection ( 8 ) , " expert report " mean an expert report or survey relate to — ( a ) relevant defect , or potential relevant defect , in a relevant building ; ( b ) relevant step take or that might be take in relation to a relevant defect in a relevant building . " ( 5 ) the amendment make by this section apply in relation to proceeding for a remediation order as mention in section 123 of the BSA 2022 which be pende on the day on which those amendment come into force ( as well as proceeding for such an order which be commence on or after that day ) . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause amend provision of the Building Safety Act 2022 which be about remediation order , to make it clear that : ( i ) a remediation order can require a landlord to take relevant step ( see NC30 ) , and ( ii ) the first - tier Tribunal may order , and enforce , the production of an expert report . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 32 - remediation contribution order " ( 1 ) section 124 of the BSA 2022 ( remediation contribution order ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 6 ) . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 2 ) , after " remedy " insert " , or otherwise in connection with , " . ( 3 ) after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) the follow description of cost , among other , fall within subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) cost incur or to be incur in take relevant step in relation to a relevant defect in the relevant building ; ( b ) cost incur or to be incur in obtain an expert report relate to the relevant building ; ( c ) temporary accommodation cost incur or to be incur in connection with a decant from the relevant building ( or from part of it ) that take place or be to take place — ( i ) to avoid an imminent threat to life or of personal injury arise from a relevant defect in the building , ( ii ) ( in the case of a decant from a dwelling ) because work relate to the building create or be expect to create circumstance in which those occupy the dwelling can not reasonably be expect to live , or ( iii ) for any other reason connect with relevant defect in the building , or work relate to the building , that be prescribe by regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 2b ) the Secretary of State may make regulation for the purpose of this section specify description of cost which be , or be not , to be regard as fall within subsection ( 2 ) . " ( 4 ) in subsection ( 3 ) , after " specified " insert " as a person require to make payment " . ( 5 ) in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( a ) , omit from " or payment " to the end ; ( b ) after paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( aa ) if it do not require the making of payment of a specified amount , determine that a specify body corporate or partnership be liable for the reasonable cost of specify thing do or to be do ; " . ( 6 ) in subsection ( 5 ) — ( a ) after the definition of " developer " insert — " " expert report " have the meaning give by section 123 ( 9 ) ; " ; ( b ) after the definition of " relevant defect " insert — " " relevant step " : see section 120 ; " ; ( c ) after the definition of " specified " insert — " " temporary accommodation cost " , in relation to a decant from a relevant building , mean — ( a ) the cost of the temporary accommodation , and ( b ) other cost result from the decant , include removal cost , storage cost and reasonable travel cost ; " work " mean work — ( a ) to remedy a relevant defect in a relevant building , or ( b ) in connection with the taking of relevant step in relation to such a defect . " ( 7 ) the amendment make by this section apply — ( a ) in relation to proceeding for a remediation contribution order under section 124 of the BSA 2022 which be pende on the day on which those amendment come into force ( as well as proceeding for such an order which be commence on or after that day ) ; ( b ) in relation to cost incur before as well as after those amendment come into force . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause amend provision of the Building Safety Act 2022 which be about remediation contribution order , to make it clear that a remediation contribution order may require payment in respect of the cost of take relevant step ( see NC30 ) , the cost of an expert report , and the cost of a temporary decant of tenant . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 33 - Recovery of legal cost etc through service charge " ( 1 ) schedule 8 to the BSA 2022 ( remediation cost under qualifying lease etc ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . ( 2 ) after paragraph 9 ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) sub - paragraph ( 1 ) do not apply to the extent that the service charge be payable to a management company in respect of legal or other professional service provide to the company in connection with an application or possible application by the company for or relate to a remediation contribution order under section 124 . " ( 3 ) after paragraph 9 ( 2 ) insert — " ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1A ) " management company " mean — ( a ) a resident management company , or ( b ) an RTM company within the meaning of chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 ( right to manage ) . ( 4 ) " resident management company " mean a body corporate which be party to a lease of a building where — ( a ) the body corporate be limit by guarantee and the member of that body be tenant under lease of dwelling in the building ( " leaseholder " ) , or ( b ) the majority of the share of the body corporate be hold by leaseholder . " ( 4 ) the amendment make by this section do not apply in relation to legal or other professional service provide before this section come into force . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause amend provision in the Building Safety Act 2022 which prevent legal cost etc relate to liability for build defect be pass onto leaseholder via the service charge . the change allow the recovery of such cost via the service charge if they be incur by a resident management company in connection with obtain a remediation contribution order . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 34 - Repeal of section 125 of the BSA 2022 " ( 1 ) omit section 125 of the BSA 2022 ( meet remediation cost of insolvent landlord ) . ( 2 ) in consequence of that repeal — ( a ) in section 116 ( 1 ) , for " 125 " substitute " 124 " ; ( b ) omit section 116 ( 2 ) ( e ) ; ( c ) in section 117 ( 1 ) , for " 125 " substitute " 124 " ; ( d ) in section 119 ( 1 ) , for " 125 " substitute " 124 " ; ( e ) in section 119A ( 9 ) , for " 125 " substitute " 124 " ; ( f ) in section 120 ( 1 ) , for " 125 " substitute " 124 " ; ( g ) in section 121 ( 1 ) , for " 125 " substitute " 124 " ; ( h ) in section 164 ( 1 ) ( c ) , for " 125 " substitute " 124 " . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause repeal section 125 of the Building Safety Act 2022 , which contain provision about meet the remediation cost of insolvent landlord . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 35 - high - risk and relevant building : notification in connection with insolvency " before section 126 of the BSA 2022 ( and the italic head before it ) insert — " Insolvency of certain person with an interest in high - risk and relevant building 125A Notifications by insolvency practitioner ( 1 ) this section apply if an insolvency practitioner be appoint in relation to a responsible person for a high - risk building or a relevant building . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , a person be " a responsible person " for a building if — ( a ) in the case of a high - risk building , the person be an accountable person for the building ( see section 72 for the meaning of " accountable person " for a high - risk building ) ; ( b ) in the case of a relevant building that be not a high - risk building , the person would be an accountable person for the building if section 72 be read as apply to such a building ( and as if the reference in that section to a residential unit be a reference to a dwelling ) . ( 3 ) the insolvency practitioner must give the information in subsection ( 6 ) ( " the require information " ) to — ( a ) the local authority for the area in which the building for which the person be a responsible person be situate , or ( if applicable ) each local authority in whose area a building for which the person be a responsible person be situate , and ( b ) the fire and rescue authority for the area in which the building for which the person be a responsible person be situate , or ( if applicable ) each fire and rescue authority in whose area a building for which the person be a responsible person be situate . ( 4 ) if the insolvency practitioner be appoint in relation to an accountable person for a high - risk building , the practitioner must also give the require information to the regulator . ( 5 ) the require information must be provide within the period of 14 day begin with the day on which the insolvency practitioner be appoint . ( 6 ) the information be as follow — ( a ) the name and address of the person in relation to whom the insolvency practitioner be appoint ; ( b ) the address of each high - risk building or relevant building for which the person be a responsible person ( but see subsection ( 7 ) ) ; ( c ) an official copy of the register of title and title plan relate to each register estate or interest the person hold in such a building , if any ( but see subsection ( 7 ) ) ; ( d ) the nature of the practitioner ' s appointment ; ( e ) the practitioner ' s name , address , telephone number and email address ( if any ) ; ( f ) so much of the information set out in the table in rule 1 . 6 of the Insolvency ( England and Wales ) rule 2016 ( s . I . 2016 / 1024 ) as be know to the practitioner . ( 7 ) a local authority or fire and rescue authority need only be notify about building , or register estate or interest in building , in their area . ( 8 ) in this section " insolvency practitioner " mean — ( a ) an administrator ; ( b ) an administrative receiver ; ( c ) a receiver appoint by the court or by a mortgagee ; ( d ) a liquidator ; ( e ) a trustee in bankruptcy . ( 9 ) in this section — " fire and rescue authority " have the meaning give by section 30 ; " high - risk building " have the same meaning as in Part 4 ( see section 65 ) ; " local authority " have the meaning give by section 30 ; " register of title " mean the register keep under section 1 of the Land Registration Act 2002 ; " the regulator " have the meaning give by section 2 ; " relevant building " have the meaning give by section 117 ; " title plan " mean a plan base on the Ordnance Survey map and refer to in the register of title . " " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause amend the Building Safety Act 2022 to impose a new duty on insolvency practitioner to notify the local authority and other in the case of insolvency of certain person who have repair obligation relate to certain kind of building . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 42 - Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house " ( 1 ) a person may not grant or enter into an agreement to grant a long residential lease of a house on or after the day on which this section come into force , unless it be a permit lease ( see section ( permit lease ) ) . ( 2 ) a person may not assign or enter into an agreement to assign the whole or a part of a lease which be grant on or after the day on which this section come into force if — ( a ) at the time of the assignment the lease be a long residential lease of a house , but ( b ) at the time of the grant the lease be not a long residential lease of a house . ( 3 ) this section do not affect — ( a ) the validity of a lease grant , or an assignment enter into , in breach of this section , and do not affect the power of a person to grant or assign such a lease ( whether under section 23 ( 1 ) of the Land Registration Act 2002 or otherwise ) ; ( b ) any contractual right of a party to an agreement enter into in breach of this section . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert as the first clause of a new Part before Part 1 , would ban the grant , and certain assignment , of long residential lease of house , other than permit lease . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 43 - long residential lease of house " ( 1 ) a lease be a " long residential lease of a house " if condition A to C be meet in relation to the lease . ( 2 ) condition a : the lease have a long term ( see section ( Leases which have a long term ) and ( Series of lease whose term would extend beyond 21 year ) ) . ( 3 ) condition B : the lease demise one house ( see section ( Houses ) ) , with or without appurtenant property , and nothing else . ( 4 ) condition C : the lease be a residential lease ( see section ( residential lease ) ) . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC42 , would define " long residential lease of a house " for the purpose of the new Part before Part 1 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 44 - Leases which have a long term " ( 1 ) a lease have a " long term " in any of case a to D . ( 2 ) case a : the lease be grant for a term certain exceed 21 year . ( 3 ) case b : section 149 ( 6 ) of the Law of Property Act 1925 apply to the lease ( lease grant for life or until marriage or civil partnership ) and the lease accordingly take effect with a term fix by law . ( 4 ) case c : the lease be grant with a covenant or obligation for perpetual renewal and accordingly take effect with a term fix by law - unless it be a sub - lease with a term fix by law of 21 year or short . ( 5 ) case d : the lease be capable of form part of a series of lease whose term would extend beyond 21 year ( see section ( Series of lease whose term would extend beyond 21 year ) ) . ( 6 ) in determine whether a lease have a long term , it be irrelevant if the lease be , or may become , terminable by notice , re - entry or forfeiture . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC43 , would define when a lease have a " long term " for the purpose of the new Part before Part 1 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 45 - Series of lease whose term would extend beyond 21 year " ( 1 ) a lease ( " the original lease " ) be " capable of form part of a series of lease whose term would extend beyond 21 year " if condition A to C be meet at the time when the original lease be grant . ( 2 ) condition a : the original lease do not have a long term under section ( Leases which have a long term ) ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) or ( 4 ) . ( 3 ) condition B : provision for the grant of another lease of the same house ( the " new lease " ) be include in — ( a ) the original lease , or ( b ) any related arrangement . ( 4 ) condition C : the total duration of — ( a ) the term of the original lease , ( b ) the term of the new lease ( if grant ) , and ( c ) the term or term of any subsequent lease ( if grant ) , would exceed 21 year . ( 5 ) in a case where the provision for the grant of the new lease , or for the grant of any subsequent lease , allow for the possibility of the term of the lease be one of a number of differ duration , the reference in condition c to the term of the lease be to the long of those possible duration . ( 6 ) a lease be a " lease of the same house " if the lease demise one house , be the house comprise in the original lease , with or without any appurtenant property , and nothing else . ( 7 ) arrangement be " related arrangement " if they be enter into in connection with the grant of the original lease ( whether or not they be enter into in writing ) . ( 8 ) a lease be a " subsequent lease " if — ( a ) it be not the new lease , ( b ) it be a lease of the same house , and ( c ) provision for the grant of the lease — ( i ) be include in the original lease or any related arrangement , ( ii ) would be include in the new lease ( if grant ) , or ( iii ) would be include in any other lease that ( if grant ) would itself be a subsequent lease . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC44 , would define when a lease be " capable of form part of a series of lease whose term would extend beyond 21 year " for the purpose of subsection ( 5 ) of NC44 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 46 - Houses " ( 1 ) a " house " be a separate set of premise ( on one or more floor ) which — ( a ) form the whole , or part , of a building , and ( b ) be construct or adapt for use for the purpose of a dwelling . ( 2 ) but where the separate set of premise form part of a building , it be not a house if the whole of or a material part of the set of premise lie above or below some other part of the building . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC45 , would define a " house " for the purpose of the new Part before Part 1 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 47 - residential lease " a lease be a " residential lease " if it be a lease of a house and the term of the lease do not prevent the house from be occupy under that lease as a separate dwelling . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC46 , would define a " residential lease " for the purpose of the new Part before Part 1 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 48 - permit lease " a lease be a " permit lease " if — ( a ) it be a long residential lease of a house , and ( b ) it fall into one or more of the category set out in Schedule ( category of permit lease ) . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC47 , would define " permit lease " for the purpose of the new Part before Part 1 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 49 - permit lease : certification by the appropriate tribunal " ( 1 ) the appropriate tribunal must , on an application by a person , issue a certificate ( a " permit lease certificate " ) in relation to a new long residential lease of a house , where the tribunal be satisfied that the lease be or will be a permit lease fall within Part 1 of Schedule ( category of permit lease ) . ( 2 ) an application under this section may be make and determine whether or not the application include a draft of the instrument create the new lease . ( 3 ) the appropriate tribunal may issue a permit lease certificate on such term and condition as it consider appropriate , but the certificate must — ( a ) identify the house or the land on which the house will be build , and ( b ) state the category or category set out in Part 1 of Schedule ( category of permit lease ) into which the lease will fall . ( 4 ) if an application under this section relate to two or more lease , the appropriate tribunal may issue just one certificate relate to some or all of those lease . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC48 , would require the appropriate tribunal to issue a permit lease certificate on an application if the tribunal be satisfied that a lease fall within certain category of permit lease . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 50 - permit lease : marketing restriction " ( 1 ) this section apply in relation to the marketing of a house where — ( a ) the house be to be comprise in a new lease , and ( b ) the lease will be a long residential lease of the house . ( 2 ) a person ( " a promoter " ) may not make any material market the house to be comprise in the lease available to any person , unless the permit lease information relate to the lease be include in or provide with that material . ( 3 ) the " permit lease information " , in relation to a lease , mean — ( a ) if the lease fall or will fall into one or more of the category set out in Part 1 of Schedule ( category of permit lease ) , a copy of the permit lease certificate together with a statement identify that category or those category , ( b ) if to the good of the knowledge and belief of the promoter at the time the material be make available the lease fall or will fall into one or more of the category set out in Part 2 of Schedule ( category of permit lease ) , a statement identify that category or those category , or ( c ) if both paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) apply to the lease , the information require under both those paragraph . ( 4 ) " marketing " include any form of advertising or promotion . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC49 , would impose restriction on the marketing of long residential lease of house . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 51 - permit lease : transaction warning condition " ( 1 ) a person may not , on or after the day on which section ( Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house ) come into force — ( a ) enter into an agreement to grant a permit lease unless the transaction warning condition be meet in relation to the agreement , or ( b ) subject to subsection ( 5 ) , grant a permit lease unless the transaction warning condition be meet in relation to the lease . ( 2 ) the " transaction warning condition " be as follow — ( a ) at least 7 day before the relevant date the grantor must give a warning notice relate to the permit lease — ( i ) to the propose tenant , or ( ii ) where there be more than one propose tenant , to each of they ; ( b ) a notice of receipt of the warning notice must be give to the grantor — ( i ) by the propose tenant , or ( ii ) where there be more than one propose tenant , jointly by all of the propose tenant ; ( c ) a reference to the warning notice and the notice of receipt must be include in or endorse on the relevant instrument in the specify manner . ( 3 ) a " warning notice " be a notice provide in a specify form and manner and contain — ( a ) sufficient information to identify the house to be comprise in the lease , ( b ) if the lease fall within Part 1 of Schedule ( category of permit lease ) , a copy of the permit lease certificate , ( c ) if the lease fall into one or more of the category set out in Part 2 of Schedule ( category of permit lease ) , a statement identify that category or those category , ( d ) if both paragraph ( b ) and ( c ) apply to the lease , the information require under both those paragraph , and ( e ) such other information as may be specify . ( 4 ) a " notice of receipt " be a notice provide in a specify form and manner and contain such information as may be specify . ( 5 ) a person do not breach subsection ( 1 ) in relation to the grant of a lease if — ( a ) the person previously enter into an agreement to grant that lease , ( b ) the transaction warning condition be meet in relation to that agreement , and ( c ) a reference to the warning notice and the notice of receipt relate to that agreement be include in or endorse on the instrument create the lease . ( 6 ) this section do not apply to the grant of a permit lease which fall within paragraph 5 of Schedule ( category of permit lease ) ( lease agree before commencement ) . ( 7 ) this section do not affect — ( a ) the validity of a lease grant in breach of subsection ( 1 ) , and do not affect the power of a person to grant such a lease ( whether under section 23 ( 1 ) of the Land Registration Act 2002 or otherwise ) ; ( b ) any contractual right of a party to an agreement enter into in breach of subsection ( 1 ) . ( 8 ) in this section — " grantor " , in relation to a lease , mean the person propose to grant the lease ( whether or not that person hold the freehold or leasehold title out of which the lease will be grant ) ; " propose tenant " , in relation to a lease , mean the propose tenant of the house to be comprise in the lease ; " relevant date " mean — ( a ) in the case of an agreement to grant a lease , the day on which the agreement be enter into , and ( b ) in the case of a grant of a lease , the day on which the lease be grant ; " relevant instrument " mean — ( a ) in the case of an agreement to grant a lease , that agreement , and ( b ) in the case of a grant of a lease , the instrument create that lease ; " specified " mean specify or describe in regulation make — ( a ) in relation to a lease of a house in England , by the Secretary of State ; ( b ) in relation to a lease of a house in Wales , by the Welsh Ministers . ( 9 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section be subject to the negative procedure . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC50 , would require certain warning to be give to the prospective tenant under a permit lease before it be grant or an agreement to grant the lease be enter into . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 52 - prescribed statement in new long lease " ( 1 ) this section apply to a lease of land which — ( a ) have a long term , and ( b ) be grant on or after the day on which section ( Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house ) come into force . ( 2 ) if the lease be not a long residential lease of a house , the lease must include a statement to that effect . ( 3 ) if the lease be a permit lease , the lease must include a statement to that effect . ( 4 ) a statement under subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) must comply with such requirement as may be prescribe by land registration rule under the Land Registration Act 2002 . ( 5 ) this section do not apply to — ( a ) a lease with a long term only by virtue of fall within section ( Leases which have a long term ) ( 5 ) ; ( b ) a lease which take effect as a deemed surrender and regrant of a lease . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC51 , would require certain lease to contain statement that they be either not long residential lease of house or that they be permit lease . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 53 - restriction on title " ( 1 ) subsection ( 3 ) apply where — ( a ) the Chief Land Registrar approve an application for registration of a lease ( the " registered lease " ) , ( b ) section ( prescribed statement in new long lease ) apply to the registered lease , but ( c ) the register lease do not contain a statement make in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) of that section . ( 2 ) an " application for registration of a lease " be an application for — ( a ) registration of a disposition of register land , if that disposition be the grant of a lease , or ( b ) registration of a lease within section 4 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Land Registration Act 2002 . ( 3 ) the Chief Land Registrar must enter in the register a restriction that no registrable disposition , other than the grant of a legal charge , of the register lease be to be register . ( 4 ) the restriction under subsection ( 3 ) may be remove if the register lease be varied to include a statement make in accordance with section ( prescribed statement in new long lease ) ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) . ( 5 ) subsection ( 6 ) apply where — ( a ) a restriction have be enter in the register in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) in relation to a register lease , and ( b ) the Chief Land Registrar approve an application for registration of a deed of variation relate to the lease by virtue of which a new lease take effect as a deemed surrender and regrant of the lease . ( 6 ) the Chief Land Registrar must enter in the register a restriction that no registrable disposition , other than the grant of a legal charge , of the new lease be to be register . ( 7 ) the restriction under subsection ( 6 ) may be remove if the Chief Land Registrar be satisfied that the new lease — ( a ) be not a long residential lease of a house , or ( b ) be a permit lease . ( 8 ) an expression use in this section and in the Land Registration Act 2002 have the same meaning in this section as in that Act . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC52 , would require the Land Registry to enter restriction on the disposition of land where requirement in NC52 be not meet . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 54 - redress : right to acquire a freehold or superior leasehold estate " ( 1 ) this section apply where a long residential lease of a house be grant or assign in breach of section ( Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house ) . ( 2 ) the right holder in relation to the lease have the right to acquire ( for no consideration ) — ( a ) the freehold estate in the land comprise in the lease , and ( b ) any superior leasehold estate or estate in that land . ( 3 ) reference in the rest of this section , and in section ( redress : application of the right to acquire ) to ( redress regulation : exercise and give effect to the right to acquire ) , to the right to acquire be to be construe in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) . ( 4 ) the right to acquire the freehold or leasehold estate be exercisable against the person hold that estate for the time be ( the " landlord " ) . ( 5 ) the " right holder " , in relation to a lease , mean — ( a ) in a case where a mortgagee or chargee have for the time be the right to deal with the house comprise in the lease , that person , or ( b ) in any other case the tenant for the time be under the lease . ( 6 ) in this section , " superior leasehold estate " , in relation to a long residential lease of a house , mean a leasehold estate that be superior to the long residential lease . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC53 , would give a tenant under a lease grant or assign in breach of NC42 , or where relevant their mortgagee or chargee , the right to acquire the freehold and any superior lease of the land . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 55 - redress : application of the right to acquire " ( 1 ) section ( redress : right to acquire a freehold or superior leasehold estate ) cease to apply in relation to a long residential lease of a house if — ( a ) the term of the lease expire ( but see subsection ( 2 ) ) , or ( b ) the lease otherwise cease to exist . ( 2 ) where the term of the lease expire , section ( redress : right to acquire a freehold or superior leasehold estate ) continue to apply for as long as the lease be continue under a relevant enactment . ( 3 ) section ( redress : right to acquire a freehold or superior leasehold estate ) cease to apply in relation to a long residential lease of a house if the tenant for the time be under the lease acquire the freehold estate and any superior leasehold estate or estate in the land comprise in the lease ( whether or not by exercise the right to acquire ) . ( 4 ) in subsection ( 2 ) " relevant enactment " mean — ( a ) Part 1 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 , or ( b ) schedule 10 to the Local Government and Housing Act 1989 . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC54 , would make provision for when the right to redress in NC54 cease to apply . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 56 - redress : general provision " ( 1 ) a lease to which section ( redress : right to acquire a freehold or superior leasehold estate ) apply be not as a result of any right to acquire — ( a ) registrable under the Land Charges Act 1972 , or ( b ) to be take to be an estate contract within the meaning of that Act . ( 2 ) an agreement relate to a long residential lease of a house ( whether or not contain in the instrument create the lease or make before the grant of the lease ) be of no effect to the extent that it make provision — ( a ) exclude or modify the right to acquire , or ( b ) provide for the surrender or termination of the lease , or for the imposition of any penalty , in the event of the right holder take step to exercise the right to acquire . ( 3 ) subsection ( 2 ) do not prevent a tenant under a long residential lease of a house from — ( a ) surrender the lease , ( b ) terminate the lease , or ( c ) enter into an agreement to acquire the freehold estate in the land comprise in the lease , or any superior leasehold estate or estate in that land , other than by way of exercise the right to acquire . ( 4 ) the right to acquire in relation to a long residential lease of a house be not capable of subsist apart from the lease . ( 5 ) in this section , " right holder " have the meaning give by section ( redress : right to acquire a freehold or superior leasehold estate ) . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC55 , would make general provision in relation to the right to redress in NC54 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 57 - redress regulation : exercise and give effect to the right to acquire " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation ( " redress regulation " ) make provision for and in connection with the exercise of the right holder ' s right to acquire in relation to a long residential lease of a house . ( 2 ) redress regulation may , in particular , include provision for or in connection with — ( a ) the period within which the right to acquire must be exercise ; ( b ) the giving of notice by the right holder to the landlord or any other specify person for the purpose of exercise the right to acquire ( include the form and manner in which , and the period within which , any such notice must be give ) ; ( c ) registration under the Land Charges Act 1972 or the Land Registration Act 2002 of any notice give by virtue of paragraph ( b ) ; ( d ) the giving of notice by the landlord to the right holder or any other specify person for the purpose of accept or reject the right holder ' s right to acquire ( include the form and manner in which , and the period within which , any such notice must be give ) ; ( e ) the making by the appropriate tribunal or a court of an order on an application by a specified person determine whether or not , in the absence of agreement between the right holder and the landlord , the right holder have the right to acquire ( include provision for the order to be make subject to such term and condition as the tribunal or court consider appropriate , include term about cost ) ; ( f ) further step that must be take by the right holder ( include the provision of specified information or specify document ) , and any condition that must be meet in relation to the taking of those further step ( include condition about timing ) , in order to exercise the right to acquire ; ( g ) requirement that must be meet in relation to a conveyance execute to give effect to the right to acquire ( a " relevant conveyance " ) , include requirement for the conveyance to include specify provision in respect of specified easement or right over property , right of way or covenant ( positive or restrictive ) ; ( h ) any other requirement that must be meet in relation to a relevant conveyance , include a requirement that the conveyance be grant free of specified incumbrance , and subject to such burden as may be specify ; ( i ) the effect of the execution of a relevant conveyance , include provision for the conveyance to have the effect of discharge the house comprise in the lease from any specified incumbrance ( include a charge ) ; ( j ) any statement which must be include in a relevant conveyance , include a statement identify the conveyance as execute for the purpose of this Part , and any requirement that must be meet in relation to such a statement ( include any requirement prescribe by land registration rule under the Land Registration Act 2002 ) ; ( k ) the making by the appropriate tribunal or a court of an order ( a " relevant order " ) on an application by a specified person for the purpose of give effect to the right to acquire ( whether or not in connection with an application to the appropriate tribunal or a court for a determination as describe in paragraph ( e ) ) ; ( l ) the modification of the right to acquire in relation to any appurtenant property comprise in the lease ( include for the right holder to continue to hold a lease of such property , or confer on they a right to use the property ) ; ( m ) the circumstance in which the right holder exercise the right to acquire be to be treat as a purchaser for value of the legal estate of the land comprise in the lease ; ( n ) the circumstance in which a mortgagee or chargee be to be treat for the purpose of section ( redress : right to acquire a freehold or superior leasehold estate ) ( 5 ) ( a ) as have the right to deal with the house comprise in the lease ; ( o ) in a case where the right holder be a tenant for the time be under the lease — ( i ) the circumstance in which a representative of the right holder have the right to acquire instead of that tenant , and ( ii ) the exercise by such a representative of any power or duty of a right holder confer or impose by this Part or under redress regulation ; ( p ) the liability for specified cost in connection with the exercise of the right to acquire ( include provision as to how to calculate such cost or for the amount of any cost payable to be determine , in the absence of agreement , by the appropriate tribunal or a court ) ; ( q ) proceeding for the recovery by specify person from the landlord who grant the lease of compensation for any loss or damage result from the breach of section ( Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house ) , include provision as to how to calculate the value of such loss or damage , and confer power on the appropriate tribunal or a court in connection with the recovery of such compensation ( include provision as to cost ) . ( 3 ) provision under subsection ( 2 ) ( k ) may , in particular , include provision — ( a ) for the making of a relevant order where the landlord can not be find or identify , include where the right holder have be unable to give notice for the purpose of exercise the right to acquire ; ( b ) for a relevant order to determine the content of a relevant conveyance and who may execute it , and to be make subject to such further term and condition as the appropriate tribunal or court consider appropriate , include term about cost . ( 4 ) redress regulation may include provision about case where the right holder ' s right to acquire in relation to a lease be exercisable in relation to more than one landlord , include ( but not limit to ) provision — ( a ) for or in connection with function to be carry out by one landlord ( the " reversioner " ) on behalf of the other landlord ; ( b ) for the landlord hold the freehold estate to be the reversioner ; ( c ) for another landlord to be the reversioner in specify circumstance ; ( d ) for or in connection with the appointment or removal of a reversioner by order of the appropriate tribunal or a court , on an application by a specified person ; ( e ) for thing do by the reversioner to be bind on the other landlord and on their interest in the land comprise in the lease ; ( f ) for or in connection with the provision of information , document or other assistance by other landlord to the reversioner for the purpose of enable the reversioner to carry out function under redress regulation ; ( g ) for the indemnification of the reversioner against any liability incur by the reversioner in consequence of failure by other landlord to comply with any requirement impose on they by redress regulation ; ( h ) exclude the reversioner from liability to any of the other landlord in specify circumstance ; ( i ) for or in connection with the making of an order by the appropriate tribunal or a court , on an application by the reversioner , direct how the right to acquire may be give effect if any of the other landlord can not be find or identify , or in case of a dispute between the reversioner and any other landlord . ( 5 ) redress regulation may — ( a ) apply or incorporate ( with or without modification ) any provision make by or under any relevant enactment ; ( b ) amend or repeal any provision make by an Act . ( 6 ) a statutory instrument contain redress regulation be subject to the negative procedure . ( 7 ) in this section — " incumbrance " have the same meaning as in section 9 of the lra 1967 ; " landlord " have the meaning give by section ( redress : right to acquire a freehold or superior leasehold estate ) ; " relevant enactment " mean — ( a ) the LRA 1967 ; ( b ) the LRHUDA 1993 ; ( c ) the Tribunals , Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 ; " representative " , in relation to a right holder , mean the personal representative , trustee in bankruptcy , trustee in sequestration , receiver , liquidator or person otherwise act in a representative capacity in relation to that person ; " right holder " have the meaning give by section ( redress : right to acquire a freehold or superior leasehold estate ) ; " specify " mean specify or describe in redress regulation . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC56 , would allow the Secretary of State to make regulation give effect to the right to acquire under NC54 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 58 - Enforcement by trading standard authority " ( 1 ) it be the duty of every local weight and measure authority in England or Wales ( an " enforcement authority " ) to enforce the leasehold house restriction in its area . ( 2 ) in this section and in section ( financial penalty ) to ( further power and duty of enforcement authority ) the " leasehold house restriction " mean — ( a ) section ( Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house ) ( 1 ) so far as it relate to an agreement to grant a lease , ( b ) section ( Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house ) ( 1 ) so far as it relate to the grant of a lease , ( c ) section ( Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house ) ( 2 ) so far as it relate to an agreement to assign a lease , ( d ) section ( Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house ) ( 2 ) so far as it relate to the assignment of a lease , ( e ) section ( permit lease : marketing restriction ) ( 2 ) ( marketing restriction on permit lease ) , ( f ) section ( permit lease : transaction warning condition ) ( 1 ) ( a ) ( condition on agreement to grant permit lease ) , and ( g ) section ( permit lease : transaction warning condition ) ( 1 ) ( b ) ( condition on grant of permit lease ) . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section and section ( financial penalty ) to ( further power and duty of enforcement authority ) , a breach of a leasehold house restriction be take to occur in the area in which the house in question be locate ( and if the house be locate in more than one area , the breach be take to have occur in each of those area ) . ( 4 ) the duty in subsection ( 1 ) be subject to section ( financial penalty : cross - border enforcement ) ( 4 ) ( enforcement by another enforcement authority ) and ( enforcement by lead enforcement authority ) ( enforcement by the lead enforcement authority ) . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC57 , provide for local weight and measure authority to enforce the specify provision restrict the grant or assignment of , or agreement to grant or assign , long residential lease of house ( refer to in the enforcement provision as " the leasehold house restriction " ) . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 59 - financial penalty " ( 1 ) an enforcement authority may impose a financial penalty on a person if the authority be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the person have breach a leasehold house restriction . ( 2 ) the amount of a penalty for a breach be to be such amount as the authority determine but — ( a ) be not to be less than £ 500 , and ( b ) be not to be more than £ 30 , 000 . ( 3 ) conduct within any one of the follow paragraph be to be regard as a single breach of one leasehold house restriction — ( a ) enter into an agreement to grant a lease in breach of section ( Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house ) ( 1 ) and subsequently grant the lease in breach of that provision ; ( b ) enter into an agreement to assign a lease in breach of section ( Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house ) ( 2 ) and subsequently assign the lease in breach of that provision ; ( c ) enter into an agreement to grant a lease in breach of section ( permit lease : transaction warning condition ) ( 1 ) ( a ) and subsequently grant the lease in breach of section ( permit lease : transaction warning condition ) ( 1 ) ( b ) . subsection ( 5 ) be to be read in accordance with this subsection . ( 4 ) a person who make marketing material available in relation to the same lease on more than one occasion in breach of section ( permit lease : marketing restriction ) ( 2 ) be to be regard as commit only one breach of that provision . ( 5 ) the follow be to be regard as separate breach — ( a ) breach by the same person of the same leasehold house restriction in relation to different lease , and ( b ) breach by the same person of different leasehold house restriction in relation to the same lease , and accordingly an enforcement authority may impose a separate penalty in relation to each breach ( or may impose a single penalty of an amount equal to the total of the amount of the penalty that could have be separately impose ) . ( 6 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend an amount for the time be specify in subsection ( 2 ) to reflect a change in the value of money . ( 7 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 6 ) be subject to the negative procedure . ( 8 ) schedule ( leasehold house : financial penalty ) contain further provision about financial penalty under this section . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC58 , give local weight and measure authority power to impose financial penalty for breach of the leasehold house restriction . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 60 - financial penalty : cross - border enforcement " ( 1 ) an enforcement authority may impose a penalty under section ( financial penalty ) in respect of a breach of a leasehold house restriction which occur outside that authority ' s area ( as well as in respect of a breach which occur within that area ) . ( 2 ) if an enforcement authority ( " LA1 " ) propose to impose a penalty in respect of a breach which occur in the area of a different enforcement authority ( " LA2 " ) , LA1 must notify LA2 that it propose to do so . ( 3 ) if LA1 notifies LA2 under subsection ( 2 ) but do not impose the penalty , LA1 must notify LA2 of that fact . ( 4 ) if an enforcement authority receive a notification under subsection ( 2 ) , the authority be relieve of its duty under section ( enforcement by trading standard authority ) ( 1 ) in relation to the breach unless the authority receive a notification under subsection ( 3 ) . ( 5 ) if an enforcement authority ( " LA1 " ) impose a penalty in respect of a breach which occur in the area of a different enforcement authority ( " LA2 " ) , LA1 must notify LA2 of that fact . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after nc59 , make provision in connection with enforcement of the leasehold house restriction across local authority boundary . bring up , and add to the Bill . New clause 61 - lead enforcement authority " ( 1 ) in this section and in section ( general duty of lead enforcement authority ) to ( further power and duty of enforcement authority ) " lead enforcement authority " mean — ( a ) the Secretary of State , or ( b ) a person whom the Secretary of State have arrange to be the lead enforcement authority in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may make arrangement for a local weight and measure authority in England or Wales to be the lead enforcement authority instead of the Secretary of State . ( 3 ) the arrangement — ( a ) may include provision for payment by the Secretary of State ; ( b ) may include provision about bring the arrangement to an end . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make transitional or save provision which apply when there be a change in the lead enforcement authority . ( 5 ) the regulation may relate to a specific change in the lead enforcement authority or to change that might arise from time to time . ( 6 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 4 ) be subject to the negative procedure . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC60 , require the Secretary of State , or a local weight and measure authority with which the Secretary of State make arrangement , to be the lead enforcement authority in relation to the leasehold house restriction . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 62 - General duty of lead enforcement authority " ( 1 ) it be the duty of the lead enforcement authority to oversee the operation of the relevant provision of this Part in England and Wales . ( 2 ) the " relevant provision of this Part " mean the provision of this Part except section ( prescribed statement in new long lease ) and ( restriction on title ) ( statement in lease and restriction on title ) . ( 3 ) it be the duty of the lead enforcement authority to issue guidance to enforcement authority about their enforcement of the leasehold house restriction ( and if the lead enforcement authority be not the Secretary of State , the Secretary of State may give direction as to the content of the guidance ) . ( 4 ) it be the duty of the lead enforcement authority to provide information and advice to the public in England and Wales about the operation of the relevant provision of this Part , in such form and manner as it consider appropriate . ( 5 ) the lead enforcement authority may disclose information to an enforcement authority for the purpose of enable that authority to determine whether there have be a breach of a leasehold house restriction . ( 6 ) if the lead enforcement authority be not the Secretary of State , the lead enforcement authority must keep under review and from time to time advise the Secretary of State about — ( a ) the operation of the relevant provision of this Part , and ( b ) social and commercial development relate to the grant or assignment of long residential lease of house in England and Wales . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC61 , give the lead enforcement authority ( see NC61 ) general function in relation to the enforcement of the leasehold house restriction . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 63 - enforcement by lead enforcement authority " ( 1 ) the lead enforcement authority may — ( a ) take step to enforce the leasehold house restriction if it consider it be necessary or expedient to do so ; ( b ) for that purpose , exercise any power that an enforcement authority may exercise for the purpose of the enforcement of the leasehold house restriction . ( 2 ) if the lead enforcement authority propose to take step in respect of a breach ( or suspect breach ) of a leasehold house restriction , it must notify the enforcement authority for the area in which the breach occur ( or may have occur ) that it propose to do so . ( 3 ) if the lead enforcement authority notifie an enforcement authority under subsection ( 2 ) but do not take the propose step , the lead enforcement authority must notify the enforcement authority of that fact . ( 4 ) if an enforcement authority receive a notification under subsection ( 2 ) , the authority be relieve of its duty under section ( enforcement by trading standard authority ) ( 1 ) in relation to the breach unless the authority receive a notification under subsection ( 3 ) . ( 5 ) but the lead enforcement authority may require the enforcement authority to assist the lead enforcement authority in take step to enforce the leasehold house restriction refer to in subsection ( 2 ) . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC62 , provide that the lead enforcement authority be able to enforce the leasehold house restriction itself if necessary or expedient . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 64 - further power and duty of enforcement authority " ( 1 ) an enforcement authority must notify the lead enforcement authority if the enforcement authority believe that a breach of a leasehold house restriction have occur in its area . ( 2 ) an enforcement authority must report to the lead enforcement authority , whenever the lead enforcement authority require and in such form and with such particular as it require , on that enforcement authority ' s enforcement of the leasehold house restriction . ( 3 ) an enforcement authority must have regard to the guidance issue under section ( general duty of lead enforcement authority ) ( 3 ) . ( 4 ) for the investigatory power available to an enforcement authority for the purpose of enforce a leasehold house restriction , see Schedule 5 to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 ( investigatory power of enforcer etc ) . ( 5 ) in paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 ( duty and power to which Schedule 5 apply ) , at the appropriate place insert — ( a ) " section ( enforcement by trading standard authority ) of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 ; " ; ( b ) " section ( enforcement by lead enforcement authority ) of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 " . ( 6 ) see also paragraph 44 of Schedule 5 to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 ( exercise of function outside enforcer ' s area ) . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC63 , make further provision about the enforcement of the leasehold house restriction , include by provide for the investigatory power in the Consumer Rights Act 2015 to be available to local weight and measure authority enforce the regime . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 65 - power to amend : permit lease and definition " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation — ( a ) amend the follow definition — ( i ) " long residential lease of a house " in section ( long residential lease of house ) ; ( ii ) a lease which have a " long term " in section ( Leases which have a long term ) ; ( iii ) " house " in section ( Houses ) ; ( b ) amend Schedule ( category of permit lease ) . ( 2 ) a statutory instrument contain ( whether alone or with other provision ) — ( a ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , or ( b ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) which add a category of lease to Schedule ( category of permit lease ) or omit a category of lease from that schedule , be subject to the affirmative procedure . ( 3 ) any other statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) be subject to the negative procedure . ( 4 ) see also the power to make regulation under paragraph 2 ( 1 ) ( b ) , 3 ( 1 ) ( b ) , 6 ( 2 ) and 7 ( 1 ) ( b ) of Schedule ( category of permit lease ) . ( 5 ) the provision that may be make by regulation under this section by virtue of section 86 ( 1 ) ( consequential etc provision ) include provision amend or repeal any provision of this Part . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC64 , would allow the Secretary of State to make regulation to amend certain definition and category of permit lease in the new Part before Part 1 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 66 - interpretation of Part A1 " ( 1 ) in this part — " appropriate tribunal " mean — ( a ) in relation to a lease of a house in England , the first - tier Tribunal or , where determine by or under Tribunal Procedure Rules , the Upper Tribunal ; and ( b ) in relation to a lease of a house in Wales , a leasehold valuation tribunal ; " appurtenant property " , in relation to a house , mean any garage , outhouse , garden , yard or appurtenance belong to , or usually enjoy with , the house ; " enforcement authority " mean a local weight and measure authority in England or Wales ; " house " : see section ( Houses ) ; " lead enforcement authority " have the meaning give by section ( lead enforcement authority ) ; " lease " — ( a ) mean a lease at law or in equity ( and reference to the grant or assignment of a lease be to be construe accordingly ) ; ( b ) include a sub - lease ; ( c ) do not include a mortgage term ; " leasehold house restriction " have the meaning give by section ( enforcement by trading standard authority ) ( 2 ) ; " long residential lease of a house " : see section ( long residential lease of house ) ; " long term " , in relation to a lease : see section ( Leases which have a long term ) ; " notify " mean notify in writing , and " notification " be to be construe accordingly ; " permit lease " : see section ( permit lease ) ; " permit lease certificate " mean a certificate issue by the appropriate tribunal under section ( permit lease : certification by the appropriate tribunal ) ; " residential lease " : see section ( residential lease ) . ( 2 ) in this part , reference to the grant of a lease in relation to a lease which take effect as a deemed surrender and regrant of a lease be to the regrant of the lease . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new clause , to be insert after NC65 , would contain interpretation provision for the new Part before Part 1 . bring up , and add to the Bill . New Clause 1 - estate management service " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation provide for resident of manage dwelling to take ownership , at nominal cost , of — ( a ) an estate management company , or ( b ) the asset of an estate management company , or other company or business connect with the development or management of the dwelling , which be use to provide service to manage dwelling if the estate management company or connected company or business do not — ( i ) provide the resident of the manage dwelling with a copy of its budget for the forthcoming year and account for the past year ; ( ii ) give sufficient notice to enable resident to attend its annual meeting ; ( iii ) acknowledge correspondence send by register post to its register office within a reasonable length of time . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may amend primary legislation . " — ( Helen Morgan . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Peter Bottomley Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Stephen Farry Richard Foord Sarah Green Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Ben Lake Caroline Lucas Helen Morgan Liz Saville - Roberts Munira Wilson Alistair Carmichael Jamie Stone Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Tracey Crouch James Daly Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip davy Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Scott Mann Mark Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 14 , Noes 304 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 5 - Abolition of forfeiture of a long lease " ( 1 ) this section apply to any right of forfeiture or re - entry in relation to a dwelling hold on a long lease which arise either — ( a ) under the term of that lease ; or ( b ) under or in consequence of section 146 ( 1 ) of the Law of Property Act 1925 . ( 2 ) the right refer to in subsection ( 1 ) be abolish . ( 3 ) in this section — " dwell " mean a building or part of a building occupy or intend to be occupy as a separate dwelling , together with any yard , garden , or outhouse and appurtenance belong to it or usually enjoy with it ; " lease " mean a lease at law or in equity and include a sub - lease , but do not include a mortgage term ; " long lease " have the meaning give by section 76 and 77 of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 . " — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) bring up . question put , the clause be add to the Bill . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Preet Kaur Gill Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Mary Glindon Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip davy Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Scott Mann Mark Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 169 , Noes 306 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 39 - right of first refusal on disposal of freehold home " ( 1 ) within three month of the passage of this Act , the Secretary of State must by regulation provide for the right of first refusal grant to qualify tenant of flat by Part 1 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 to be extend to tenant of freehold house . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) may amend primary legislation ; ( b ) be subject to the affirmative procedure ( but see subsection ( 3 ) ) . ( 3 ) if before approve a draft of regulation under subsection ( 1 ) both Houses of Parliament have agree amendment to that draft , the Secretary of State must make the regulation in the form of the draft as so amend . " — ( Mr Betts . ) bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Bob Blackman Paul Blomfield Peter Bottomley Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Mary Glindon Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip davy Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Scott Mann Nicholas Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 179 , Noes 294 . question accordingly negative . clause 8 - lease extension under the LRA 1967 on payment of premium at peppercorn rent Amendments make : 24 , page 11 , line 9 , leave out from " rent " to end of line 11 and insert — " ( 2A ) but if the exist tenancy be a shared ownership lease , the rent payable for the house and premise under the new tenancy be as follow ( and subsection ( 2 ) do not apply ) — ( a ) if the exist tenancy provide for rent to be payable in respect of the landlord ' s share in the house and premise , subsection ( 1 ) apply to the term of the new tenancy relate to that rent ; ( b ) whether or not the exist tenancy provide for rent to be payable in respect of the tenant ' s share in the house and premise , the new tenancy must provide that , as from the date it be grant , a peppercorn rent be payable in respect of the tenant ' s share ; and a reference in any enactment ( whenever pass or make ) to rent payable in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) include a reference to the rent payable in accordance with this subsection . ( 2b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2A ) , if the exist tenancy do not reserve separate rent in respect of the tenant ' s share in the house and premise and the landlord ' s share in the house and premise , any rent reserve be to be treat as reserve in respect of the landlord ' s share . ( 2C ) in this section " peppercorn rent " have the same meaning as in the Leasehold Reform ( Ground Rent ) Act 2022 — see section 4 ( 3 ) of that Act . " ; " . this provide that , where a shared ownership lease be extend under the LRA 1967 , only the rent payable in respect of the tenant ' s share will be a peppercorn rent ( and the rent payable in respect of the landlord ' s share will be on the same term as in the exist tenancy ) . amendment 25 , page 11 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) in section 31 ( 2 ) ( a ) ( ecclesiastical property ) , omit " or rent " . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment would make provision that be consequential on the rest of clause 8 . clause 9 - LRA 1967 : determine price payable for freehold or lease extension Amendment make : 26 , page 11 , line 36 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment be consequential on Amendment 60 . clause 10 - LRHUDA 1993 : determine price payable for collective enfranchisement or new lease Amendments make : 27 , page 12 , line 16 , after " freehold " insert " and other interest " . this amendment would clarify that the valuation mechanism in clause 11 and Schedule 2 extend to the acquisition of other interest in a collective enfranchisement , not just the freehold . amendment 28 , page 12 , line 19 , after " lease ) " insert " — . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 29 . amendment 29 , page 12 , line 23 , at end insert — " ( b ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) but if the exist lease be a shared ownership lease , the rent payable under the new lease of the flat be as follow ( and subsection ( 1 ) do not apply for the purpose of specify the rent under the new lease ) — ( a ) whether or not the exist lease provide for rent to be payable in respect of the tenant ' s share in the flat , the new lease must provide for a peppercorn rent to be payable in respect of the tenant ' s share ; ( b ) if the exist lease provide for rent to be payable in respect of the landlord ' s share in the flat , section 57 ( 1 ) apply to the term of the new lease relate to that rent ; and a reference in any enactment ( whenever pass or make ) to rent payable in accordance with subsection ( 1 ) include a reference to the rent payable in accordance with this subsection . ( 1b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1A ) , if the exist lease do not reserve separate rent in respect of the tenant ' s share in the flat and the landlord ' s share in the flat , any rent reserve be to be treat as reserve in respect of the landlord ' s share . " " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this provide that , where a shared ownership lease be extend under the LRHUDA 1993 , only the rent payable in respect of the tenant ' s share will be a peppercorn rent ( and the rent payable in respect of the landlord ' s share will be on the same term as in the exist tenancy ) . clause 11 - enfranchisement or extension : new method for calculate price payable Amendment make : 30 , page 13 , line 5 , after " on " insert " section 9 and 10 , " . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment would clarify that the amendment in Schedule 5 be consequential on clause 9 and 10 as well as clause 11 and schedule 2 to 4 . clause 12 - cost of enfranchisement and extension under the LRA 1967 Amendments make : 31 , page 16 , leave out line 18 . this be consequential on Amendment 63 . amendment 32 , page 17 , leave out line 12 . this be consequential on Amendment 63 . amendment 33 , page 17 , leave out line 37 . this be consequential on Amendment 63 . Amendment 34 , page 18 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( za ) in section 9 ( 5 ) ( c ) ( landlord ' s lien as vendor ) , for " he " substitute " the tenant " ; ( zb ) in section 14 ( 3 ) ( c ) ( condition for grant of extended lease ) , for " he " substitute " the tenant " ; " . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment would make provision that be consequential on amendment to the LRA 1967 in clause 12 ( 2 ) ( c ) and ( 4 ) ( b ) . clause 20 - LRA 1967 : preservation of exist law for certain enfranchisement Amendments make : 35 , page 38 , line 33 , at begin insert " ( 1 ) " . this be consequential on Amendment 36 ( which add new subsection to the new section 7a insert into the LRA 1967 ) . amendment 36 , page 39 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) if — ( a ) a person make a claim to acquire a freehold under the preserve law , and ( b ) as a result of that claim , further notice by that person be void by virtue of a statutory bar under the preserve law , only further notice make claim under the preserved law be void by virtue of that statutory bar . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) — " preserve law " mean this part as it have effect ( by virtue of subsection ( 1 ) ) without the amendment make by the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 ; " statutory bar " mean — ( a ) section 9 ( 3 ) ( b ) , or ( b ) an order under section 20 ( 6 ) or paragraph 4 ( 3 ) of Schedule 3 . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this deal with case where a tenant make a " preserve law claim " ( under the LRA 1967 as unamende by the Bill ) , and it result in the tenant be prevent from make a further claim for a certain period . only a far preserve law claim be prevent . clause 35 - limit on right of landlord to claim litigation cost from tenant Amendments make : 37 , page 61 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 8a ) a reference in this section to proceeding concern a lease include — ( a ) proceeding concern any matter arise out of — ( i ) the existence of the lease , ( ii ) any term of the lease , or ( iii ) any agreement or arrangement enter into in connection with the lease ; ( b ) proceeding concern any enactment relevant to — ( i ) the lease , or ( ii ) any agreement or arrangement enter into in connection with the lease ; ( c ) proceeding that otherwise have a connection with the lease . " this amendment would clarify which proceeding concern a lease for the purpose of the new section 20ca of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 . amendment 38 , page 63 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 8 ) the reference in the definition of " relevant proceeding " to proceeding concern a lease include — ( a ) proceeding concern any matter arise out of — ( i ) the existence of the lease , ( ii ) any term of the lease , or ( iii ) any agreement or arrangement enter into in connection with the lease ; ( b ) proceeding concern any enactment relevant to — ( i ) the lease , or ( ii ) any agreement or arrangement enter into in connection with the lease ; ( c ) proceeding that otherwise have a connection with the lease . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment would clarify which proceeding concern a lease for the purpose of the new paragraph 5b of Schedule 11 to the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 . clause 36 - right of tenant to claim litigation cost from landlord Amendments make : 39 , page 65 , line 15 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) a reference in this section to proceeding concern a lease include — ( a ) proceeding concern any matter arise out of — ( i ) the existence of the lease , ( ii ) any term of the lease , or ( iii ) any agreement or arrangement enter into in connection with the lease ; ( b ) proceeding concern any enactment relevant to — ( i ) the lease , or ( ii ) any agreement or arrangement enter into in connection with the lease ; ( c ) proceeding that otherwise have a connection with the lease . " this amendment would clarify which proceeding concern a lease for the purpose of the new section 30J of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 . amendment 40 , page 65 , line 25 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment be consequential on NC26 . clause 40 - leasehold sale information request Amendment make : 41 , page 72 , line 13 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment be consequential on NC26 . clause 70 - Part 4 : application to government department Amendment make : 42 , page 93 , line 27 , leave out clause 70 . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment be consequential on NC27 . clause 75 - approval and designation of redress scheme Amendments make : 43 , page 98 , line 5 , leave out from " for " to " to " on line 7 and insert " the appointment of an individual " . this amendment would allow regulation about approval or designation condition for redress scheme to make wide provision about the appointment of an individual responsible for oversee and monitor the investigation and determination of complaint under a redress scheme than be currently permit under clause 75 ( 3 ) ( a ) . amendment 44 , page 98 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( aa ) about the term and condition of that individual and the termination of their appointment ; " this amendment would require regulation about approval or designation condition for redress scheme to include provision about the term and condition of the individual responsible for oversee and monitor the investigation and determination of complaint under a redress scheme , and the termination of their appointment . amendment 45 , page 98 , line 20 , leave out " under other scheme for provide redress " and insert " in relation to other kind of complaint " . this amendment would widen the power to require co - operation by redress scheme in clause 75 ( 3 ) ( e ) so it be not limit to co - operation with redress scheme but also co - operation in relation to other kind of complaint . amendment 46 , page 98 , line 31 , after first " of " insert " , and the investigation and determination of complaint under , " . this amendment would clarify that regulation about approval or designation condition for redress scheme must provide for fee income to be sufficient to meet the cost of investigation and determination of complaint under voluntary aspect of a redress scheme ( where those aspect exist ) . amendment 47 , page 99 , line 40 , after " scheme " insert " and the investigation and determination of complaint under those aspect of the scheme " . this amendment would allow regulation under clause 75 ( 6 ) to make provision require fee payable by a compulsory member of a redress scheme to be referable to cost incur , or to be incur , in the investigation and determination of complaint under the compulsory aspect of the scheme ( as well as their administration ) . amendment 48 , page 99 , line 42 , leave out from " may " to end of line 43 and insert " — ( a ) confer function ( include function involve the exercise of discretion ) on the lead enforcement authority , or authorise or require a scheme to do so ; ( b ) provide for the delegation of such function by the lead enforcement authority , or authorise or require a scheme to provide for that . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment would allow regulation under clause 75 to confer function on the lead enforcement authority ( whether or not they involve a discretion ) and make provision for the delegation of such function . clause 87 - Extent Amendment make : 85 , page 109 , line 12 , at end insert " , subject to subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) section ( further power and duty of enforcement authority ) ( 5 ) extend to England and Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment amend the extent clause of the Bill in connection with amendment make by NC64 . clause 88 - Commencement Amendment make : 49 , page 109 , line 15 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) and insert — " ( 2 ) the following provision come into force at the end of the period of two month begin with the day on which this Act be pass — ( a ) section 83 ( regulation of remedy for rentcharge arrear ) ; ( b ) section ( Recovery of legal cost etc through service charge ) ( recovery of legal cost etc through service charge ) ; ( c ) section ( repeal of section 125 of the BSA 2022 ) ( repeal of section 125 of the BSA 2022 ) ; ( d ) section ( high - risk and relevant building : notification in connection with insolvency ) ( high - risk and relevant building : notification in connection with insolvency ) . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment revise the commencement clause of the Bill so as to ensure that specify propose new clause concern build safety and the insolvency of person who have repair obligation relate to certain kind of building come into force two month after the Bill receive Royal Assent . new Schedule 1 - part 5 : amendment to other act " Local Government Act 1974 1 ( 1 ) the Local Government Act 1974 be amend in accordance with paragraph 2 to 5 . 2 ( 1 ) section 33 ( consultation between Local Commissioner and other Commissioners and Ombudsmen ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) before paragraph ( ba ) insert — " ( bzc ) under a leasehold and estate management redress scheme , " ; ( b ) in the word after paragraph ( c ) — ( i ) for " or Ombudsman " substitute " , Ombudsman or head of leasehold and estate management redress " ; ( ii ) before " the Public Services Ombudsman ( Wales ) Act 2005 " insert " the leasehold and estate management redress scheme , " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) before " the Public Services Ombudsman for Wales " insert " the head of leasehold and estate management redress , " ; ( b ) for " Commissioner or that Ombudsman " substitute " person " . ( 4 ) before subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 3c ) if at any stage in the course of an investigation under a leasehold and estate management redress scheme , the head of leasehold and estate management redress form the opinion that the complaint relate partly to a matter which could be the subject of an investigation under this Part of this Act , the head of leasehold and estate management redress must consult with the appropriate Local Commissioner about the complaint and , if the head of leasehold and estate management redress consider it necessary , inform the person initiate the complaint of the step necessary to initiate a complaint under this Part of this Act . " ( 5 ) in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) for " or ( 3b ) " substitute " , ( 3b ) or ( 3c ) " ; ( b ) for " or the new home ombudsman scheme " substitute " , the new home ombudsman scheme or a leasehold and estate management redress scheme " . 3 ( 1 ) section 33za ( collaborative work between Local Commissioners and other ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( c ) , omit the final " or " ; ( b ) at the end of paragraph ( d ) , insert " or ( e ) an individual who investigate complaint under a leasehold and estate management redress scheme , " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 1A ) for " or ( d ) " substitute " , ( d ) or ( e ) " . ( 4 ) after subsection ( 1A ) insert — " ( 1b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) and ( 1A ) a matter be " within the jurisdiction " of an individual who investigate complaint under a leasehold and estate management redress scheme if it be a matter which could be the subject of an investigation under that scheme . " ( 5 ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( c ) , omit the final " or " ; ( b ) at the end of paragraph ( d ) , insert " or ( e ) an individual who investigate complaint under a leasehold and estate management redress scheme , " ; ( c ) in the word after paragraph ( d ) , for " or ( d ) " substitute " , ( d ) or ( e ) " . 4 in section 33zb ( arrangement for provision of administrative and other service ) , in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( e ) , omit the final " and " ; ( b ) at the end of paragraph ( f ) , insert " , and ( g ) the administrator of a leasehold and estate management redress scheme . " 5 in section 34 ( interpretation ) in subsection ( 1 ) , at the appropriate place insert — " " leasehold and estate management redress scheme " mean a redress scheme within the meaning of section 72 ( 4 ) of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 ( leasehold and estate management : redress scheme ) ; " " " head of leasehold and estate management redress " , in relation to a leasehold and estate management redress scheme , mean the person responsible for oversee and monitor the investigation and determination of complaint under the scheme ; " Housing Act 1996 6 ( 1 ) paragraph 10a of Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1996 ( housing complaint : collaborative work with Local Commissioners ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) — ( a ) for " or the new home ombudsman " substitute " , the new home ombudsman or an individual who investigate complaint under a leasehold and estate management redress scheme " ; ( b ) for the word from " that Commissioner " to the end substitute " any one or more of they " . ( 3 ) after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) a matter be " within the jurisdiction " of an individual who investigate complaint under a leasehold and estate management redress scheme if it be a matter which could be the subject of an investigation under that scheme . " ( 4 ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) — ( a ) for " or the new home ombudsman " substitute " , the new home ombudsman or an individual who investigate complaint under a leasehold and estate management redress scheme ( or two or more of they ) " ; ( b ) for the word from " that Commissioner " to the end substitute " they " . ( 5 ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) for " a Local Commissioner , the new home ombudsman ( or both ) " substitute " one or more person " . ( 6 ) after sub - paragraph ( 5 ) insert — " ( 6 ) in this paragraph " leasehold and estate management redress scheme " mean a redress scheme within the meaning of section 72 ( 4 ) of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . " Building Safety Act 2022 7 in paragraph 3 ( 5 ) of Schedule 3 to the BSA 2022 — ( a ) in paragraph ( c ) , omit the final " or " ; ( b ) at the end of paragraph ( d ) insert " , or — ( e ) a redress scheme within the meaning of section 72 ( 4 ) of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 ( leasehold and estate management : redress scheme ) . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new schedule , to be insert after Schedule 9 , would make amendment to other act in connection with Part 5 . bring up , and add to the Bill . new Schedule 2 - Categories of permit lease " Part 1 - Categories of permit lease for Tribunal certificationpart 1 Leases grant out of historic leasehold estate 1 a lease grant out of a leasehold estate ( the " superior leasehold estate " ) where — ( a ) the superior leasehold estate be grant before 22 December 2017 , or ( b ) the superior leasehold estate be grant on or after 22 December 2017 in pursuance of an agreement enter into before that date . community housing lease 2 ( 1 ) a lease that — ( a ) be a community housing lease , and ( b ) meet any further condition which may be specify in regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 2 ) a lease be a community housing lease if — ( a ) the landlord under the lease be a community land trust within the meaning of section 2 ( 7a ) of the LR ( GR ) a 2022 ( excepted lease ) , or ( b ) it be a lease of a house which be , or be in , a building within paragraph 2b of Schedule 14 to the Housing Act 2004 ( building control or manage by co - operative society ) , disregard sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( b ) of that paragraph . ( 3 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation make under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) be subject to the negative procedure . retirement housing lease 3 ( 1 ) a lease that — ( a ) be a retirement housing lease , and ( b ) meet any further condition which may be specify in regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 2 ) a lease be a retirement housing lease if condition A to C be meet — ( a ) Condition a : the lease be grant to a tenant who be at least 55 year old at the date of the grant , ( b ) condition B : the lease include a covenant not to assign , underlet or part with possession of the house or any part of it , unless at least one of the propose assignee or tenant be at least 55 year old at the date of the assignment , underletting or transfer , and ( c ) condition C : the house comprise in the lease be part of a retirement development or scheme in which the lease of all of the house in that development or scheme meet condition A and b . ( 3 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation make under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) be subject to the negative procedure . lease of certain National Trust property 4 a lease of a house specify in — ( a ) Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the National Trust Act 1907 ( property to be hold and preserve for the benefit of the nation ) , or ( b ) section 8 of the National Trust Act 1939 ( mansion and land to be inalienable by National Trust ) . part 2 - Categories of permit lease for self - certificationpart 2 Leases agree before commencement 5 a lease grant in pursuance of an agreement enter into before the day on which section ( Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house ) come into force . shared ownership lease 6 ( 1 ) a lease that — ( a ) be a shared ownership lease , and ( b ) meet condition a to D . ( 2 ) but condition C and d do not need to be meet if the shared ownership lease be of a description specify for this purpose in regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 3 ) a shared ownership lease mean a lease of a house — ( a ) grant on payment of a premium calculate by reference to a percentage of the value of the house or of the cost of provide it , or ( b ) under which the tenant ( or the tenant ' s personal representative ) will or may be entitle to a sum calculate by reference , directly or indirectly , to the value of the house . ( 4 ) condition a : the lease allow for the tenant to increase the tenant ' s share in the house by increment of 25 % or less ( whether or not the lease also provide for increment of more than 25 % ) . ( 5 ) condition B : the lease provide — ( a ) for the price payable for an increase in the tenant ' s share in the house to be proportionate to the market value of the house at the time the share be to be increase , and ( b ) if the tenant ' s share be increase , for the rent payable by the tenant in respect of the landlord ' s share in the house to be reduce by an amount reflect the increase in the tenant ' s share . ( 6 ) condition C : the lease allow for the tenant ' s share in the house to reach 100 % . ( 7 ) condition d : if and when the tenant ' s share in the house be 100 % , the tenancy provide that the term of the lease which make the lease a share ownership lease cease to have effect , without the payment of any further consideration . ( 8 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation make under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) be subject to the negative procedure . home finance plan lease 7 ( 1 ) a lease that — ( a ) be a home finance plan lease , and ( b ) meet any further condition which may be specify in regulation make by the Secretary of State . ( 2 ) a lease be a home finance plan lease if — ( a ) it be grant pursuant to an arrangement which be a regulated home reversion plan within the meaning of article 63b of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( Regulated Activities ) Order 2001 ( S . I . 2001 / 544 ) , or ( b ) it be grant by a finance provider to a home buyer , pursuant to a rent to buy arrangement . ( 3 ) a " rent to buy arrangement " be an arrangement in relation to which the follow condition be meet — ( a ) a person ( the " finance provider " ) buy a qualifying interest , or an undivided share of a qualifying interest , in land , and ( b ) the arrangement provide for the obligation of another person ( the " home buyer " ) to buy the interest buy by the finance provider over the course of , or at the end of , a specify period . ( 4 ) a " qualifying interest in land " mean an estate in fee simple absolute or a term of year absolute , whether subsist at law or in equity . ( 5 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation make under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( b ) be subject to the negative procedure . extended lease 8 ( 1 ) an extended lease , which be a lease that fall within any of case a to C . ( 2 ) case a : a lease of a house grant under Part 1 of the lra 1967 ( tenant of leasehold house entitle to extended lease ) in substitution for a lease of a house grant before this part come into force . ( 3 ) case b : a lease of a house grant in consideration of the surrender in whole or part of a lease of that house grant before this part come into force . ( 4 ) case c : a lease of a house which take effect as a deemed surrender and regrant of a lease of a house grant before this part come into force . agricultural lease 9 an agricultural lease , which be a lease where the house be comprise in — ( a ) an agricultural holding within the meaning of the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 which be hold under a tenancy to which that Act apply , or ( b ) a farm business tenancy within the meaning of the Agricultural Tenancies Act 1995 . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new schedule , to be insert before Schedule 1 , set out the category of permit lease for the purpose of the new Part before Part 1 ( see the explanatory statement to NC42 and NC48 ) . bring up , and add to the Bill . new Schedule 3 - leasehold house : financial penalty " notice of intent 1 ( 1 ) before impose a financial penalty on a person under section ( financial penalty ) , an enforcement authority must give the person notice of its proposal to do so ( a " notice of intent " ) . ( 2 ) a notice of intent must set out — ( a ) the date on which it be give , ( b ) the amount of the propose penalty , ( c ) the reason for propose to impose the penalty , and ( d ) information about the right to make representation under paragraph 3 . time limit for notice of intent 2 ( 1 ) a notice of intent may not be give to a person in respect of a breach of a leasehold house restriction after the early of the following — ( a ) the end of the period of 6 year begin with the day the breach occur , and ( b ) the end of the period of 6 month begin with the day on which evidence come to the knowledge of the enforcement authority which the authority consider sufficient to justify give the notice . ( 2 ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) — ( a ) a breach of section ( Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house ) ( 1 ) or ( permit lease : transaction warning condition ) ( 1 ) occur on the day the lease be grant or ( as the case may be ) the agreement be enter into ( or , in the case of a breach of either of those provision consist of enter into an agreement to grant a lease and subsequently grant it , the day on which the agreement be enter into ) ; ( b ) a breach of section ( Ban on grant or assignment of certain long residential lease of house ) ( 2 ) occur on the day of the assignment or ( as the case may be ) the agreement be enter into ( or , in the case of a breach of that provision consist of enter into an agreement to assign a lease and subsequently assign it , the day on which the agreement be enter into ) ; ( c ) a breach of section ( permit lease : marketing restriction ) ( 2 ) occur on the day the marketing material be make available ( or , in the case of marketing material make available in relation to the same lease on more than one occasion , the first day on which such material be make available ) . right to make write representation 3 a person who be give a notice of intent may , within the period of 28 day begin with the day on which the notice be give , make written representation about the proposal . final notice 4 ( 1 ) after the period allow for representation have expire , the enforcement authority must — ( a ) decide whether to impose a penalty on the person , and ( b ) if it decide to do so , decide the amount of the penalty . ( 2 ) if the enforcement authority decide to impose a penalty , it must do so by give the person a notice ( a " final notice " ) . ( 3 ) a final notice must require the penalty to be pay before the end of the period of 28 day begin with the day after that on which the notice be give . ( 4 ) a final notice must set out — ( a ) the date on which it be give , ( b ) the amount of the penalty , ( c ) the reason for impose the penalty , ( d ) information about how to pay the penalty , ( e ) the period for payment of the penalty , ( f ) information about right of appeal , and ( g ) the consequence of failure to comply with the notice . Withdrawal or amendment of notice 5 an enforcement authority may at any time — ( a ) withdraw a notice of intent or final notice , or ( b ) reduce an amount specify in a notice of intent or final notice , by give a notice to that effect to the person to whom the notice of intent or final notice be give . appeal 6 ( 1 ) a person who be give a final notice may appeal to the appropriate tribunal against — ( a ) the decision to impose the penalty , or ( b ) the amount of the penalty . ( 2 ) an appeal must be bring before the end of the period of 28 day begin with the day after that on which the final notice be give . ( 3 ) if an appeal be bring under this paragraph , the final notice be suspend so far as it relate to the matter which be the subject of the appeal until the appeal be finally determine or withdraw . ( 4 ) an appeal under this paragraph — ( a ) be to be a re - hearing of the enforcement authority ' s decision , but ( b ) may be determine have regard to evidence which be not available to the authority when give the notice . ( 5 ) on an appeal under this paragraph the appropriate tribunal may quash , confirm or vary the notice . ( 6 ) if the appropriate tribunal vary the amount of the penalty impose by the notice , the new amount must be an amount that the enforcement authority have power to impose . recovery of penalty 7 ( 1 ) a penalty be recoverable by the enforcement authority that impose it , if the county court so order , as if it be payable under an order of that court . ( 2 ) in proceeding before the county court for the recovery of a penalty , a certificate that — ( a ) be sign by the chief finance officer of the authority that impose the penalty , and ( b ) state that the amount due have not be receive by a date specify in the certificate , be evidence of that fact . ( 3 ) a certificate to that effect and purport to be so sign be to be treat as be so sign unless the contrary be prove . ( 4 ) in this paragraph " chief finance officer " have the same meaning as in section 5 of the Local Government and Housing Act 1989 . proceed of penalty 8 an enforcement authority may apply the proceed of a penalty towards meet the cost and expense ( whether administrative or legal ) incur in , or associate with , carry out its enforcement function under this Part . 9 any proceed of a penalty which be not apply in accordance with paragraph 8 must be pay — ( a ) if the penalty be impose in relation to a lease of a house in England , to the Secretary of State ; ( b ) if the penalty be impose in relation to a lease of a house in Wales , to the Welsh Ministers . Manner of give notice 10 ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision about — ( a ) how any notice under this schedule be to be give to a person ; ( b ) when such a notice be to be treat as be give . ( 2 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this paragraph be subject to the negative procedure . interpretation 11 in this schedule — " enforcement authority " have the meaning give by section ( Interpretation of Part A1 ) ; " leasehold house restriction " have the meaning give by section ( enforcement by trading standard authority ) ( 2 ) ; " notice " mean notice in writing ; " penalty " mean a financial penalty under section ( financial penalty ) . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this new schedule , to be insert after NS2 , make provision about financial penalty which local weight and measure authority may impose for breach of certain provision restrict the grant or assignment of long residential lease of house . bring up , and add to the Bill . schedule 1 - Eligibility for enfranchisement and extension : specific case Amendments make : 50 , page 112 , leave out line 16 . this be consequential on Amendment 63 . amendment 51 , page 116 , leave out line 31 . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this be consequential on Amendment 63 . schedule 2 - determine and share the market value Amendments make : 52 , page 125 , line 27 , after " rent " insert " ( and any other rent payable under a share ownership lease in respect of the landlord ' s share ) " . this be consequential on Amendments 24 and 29 . amendment 53 , page 134 , line 27 , leave out " 4 ( 3 ) " and insert " 22 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) " . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment would correct an incorrect cross - reference . Amendment propose : 4 , page 136 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( 9 ) in set the deferment rate the Secretary of State must have regard to the desirability of encourage leaseholder to acquire their freehold at the low possible cost . " — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment would ensure that when determine the applicable deferment rate , the Secretary of State would have to have regard to the desirability of encourage leaseholder to acquire their freehold at the low possible cost . question put , that the amendment be make . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Preet Kaur Gill Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Mary Glindon Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip davy Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Scott Mann Mark Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 171 , Noes 300 . question accordingly negative . amendment make : 54 , page 139 , line 31 , after " transaction " insert — " ( take into account , where paragraph 31 ( 1 ) ( c ) apply , any reduction under paragraph 12a of Schedule 1 to the LRA 1967 or paragraph 12 of Schedule 11 to the LRHUDA 1993 in the rent of a lease of which the eligible person be a tenant ) " this ensure that any reduction of rent payable by a person as a tenant where there be commutation of rent be take into account when determine the person ' s loss for the purpose of share the consideration payable on an enfranchisement or extension . Amendment 55 , page 144 , line 16 , leave out " 4 ( 3 ) " and insert " 22 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) " . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment would correct an incorrect cross - reference . schedule 5 - amendment consequential on section 11 and schedule 2 to 4 amendment make : 56 , page 149 , leave out line 12 to 21 this amendment be consequential on Amendment 60 . amendment 57 , page 151 , line 42 , leave out sub - paragraph ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 5 ) in paragraph 7 ( 1 ) — ( a ) omit paragraph ( b ) ; ( b ) in paragraph ( c ) , for " price payable for " substitute " share of the purchase price , as determined under Part 6 of Schedule 2 to the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , that be payable to the owner of " ; ( c ) in paragraph ( d ) , for " the price payable for " substitute " each share of the purchase price , as determined under Part 6 of Schedule 2 to the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , that be payable to the owner of " ; ( d ) at the end of paragraph ( d ) , insert " ; and ( e ) if the sum payable for the redemption of a rentcharge under section 11 or the discharge of a charge under section 12 can not be ascertain because the share of the purchase price payable to the relevant landlord have not be agree or determine under Part 6 of Schedule 2 to the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , the tenant may pay the whole of the price payable into the tribunal . " " this amendment would make provision that be consequential on Part 6 of Schedule 2 . amendment 58 , page 153 , line 32 , at end insert — ' 5a in Schedule 8 to the LRHUDA 1993 ( discharge of mortgage etc ) — ( a ) in paragraph 1 , for the definition of ' the consideration payable ' substitute — " " the consideration payable " mean the share payable to the landlord , as determine under Part 6 of Schedule 2 to the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , of the purchase price for the acquisition of the relevant interest ; " ( b ) in paragraph 4 , after sub - paragraph ( 3 ) insert — " ( 4 ) if the amount to be apply for the redemption of a mortgage under paragraph 2 , or that may be pay into the tribunal under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , can not be ascertain because the share of the purchase price payable to the relevant landlord have not be agree or determine under Part 6 of Schedule 2 to the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , the nominee purchaser may pay the whole of the price payable into the tribunal . " ' this amendment would make provision that be consequential on Part 6 of Schedule 2 . amendment 59 , page 154 , line 20 , at end insert " and any sum payable to that other landlord under section 56 ( 3 ) " this amendment would ensure that , in the new provision in Schedule 5 for require a tenant to pay amount into the tribunal ( for onward distribution to multiple landlord in a collective enfranchisement ) , the sum that can be pay in include other amount payable under section 56 ( 3 ) of the LRHUDA 1993 . amendment 60 , page 155 , line 11 , at end insert — " other consequential amendment to the LRA 1967 8 the LRA 1967 be amend in accordance with paragraph 9 to 14 . 9 in section 8 ( 1 ) ( obligation to enfranchise ) , after " price " insert " payable in accordance with section 9 " . 10 omit section 9a ( compensation payable in case where right to enfranchisement arise by virtue of section 1A or 1b ) . 11 in section 19 ( 10 ) ( b ) ( price subject to local management scheme ) , for " under " substitute " in accordance with " . 12 in section 23 ( 5 ) ( b ) ( term of extend tenancy ) , omit " section 9 ( 1 ) and ( 1A ) above , " . 13 in section 24 ( 1 ) ( application of price ) , for " under section 9 above " substitute " in accordance with section 9 " . 14 in section 31 ( ecclesiastical property ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) , after " payable " insert " in accordance with section 9 or 14a " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for " under section 9 above " substitute " in accordance with section 9 or 14a " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 4 ) ( c ) , for " under section 9 above " substitute " in accordance with section 9 or 14a " . other consequential amendment to the LRHUDA 1993 15 the LRHUDA 1993 be amend in accordance with paragraph 16 to 30 . 16 in section 13 ( 3 ) ( initial notice ) , for paragraph ( d ) substitute — " ( d ) specify the propose purchase price payable in accordance with section 32 ( 1 ) ; " . 17 in section 18 ( 2 ) ( duty to disclose agreement ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( a ) , for the word from " to the reversioner " to " for the purpose of Schedule 6 " substitute " be determine in accordance with section 32 ( 1 ) " ; ( b ) in the word after paragraph ( b ) , for the word from " to the reversioner " to " relevant landlord " substitute " in addition to the price so determined " . 18 in section 27 ( vest order under section 26 : supplementary provision ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 3 ) , omit " in respect of each of those interest " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 5 ) — ( i ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) , omit " in respect of any interest " ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( a ) , for the word from " in respect of that interest " to " subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) " substitute " in accordance with section 32 ( 1 ) if the interest refer to in subsection ( 1 ) be be acquire in pursuance of a notice under section 13 " ; ( iii ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " that interest " substitute " the transferor ' s interest " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 6 ) — ( i ) omit " in respect of that interest " ; ( ii ) omit " for the acquisition of that interest " . 19 in section 32 ( determination of price ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for " any such interest " substitute " the freehold or any other interest to be acquire by the nominee purchaser in accordance with this chapter " ; ( b ) for subsection ( 5 ) substitute — " ( 5 ) the nominee purchaser be to be treat for all purpose as a purchaser for valuable consideration in money or money ' s worth of the freehold or other interest , even if the price payable by the nominee purchaser in accordance with section 32 ( 1 ) , or the share of the purchase price payable to the owner of the interest under Part 6 of Schedule 2 to the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , be zero or only a nominal amount . " 20 in section 39 ( 1 ) ( right to acquire new lease ) , for " a premium " substitute " the price " . 21 in section 42 ( 3 ) ( c ) ( notice to acquire new lease ) — ( a ) for " premium " substitute " price " ; ( b ) omit the word from " and , where " to the end . 22 in section 48 ( 7 ) ( application where term in dispute etc ) , for the word from " the premium " to " schedule 13 " substitute " the price payable in accordance with section 56 ( 1 ) " . 23 in section 51 ( vest order under section 50 : supplementary provision ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 5 ) — ( i ) in paragraph ( a ) , for " premium which be payable under Schedule 13 " substitute " price which be payable in accordance with section 56 ( 1 ) " ; ( ii ) at the end of paragraph ( a ) insert " and " ; ( iii ) omit paragraph ( b ) ; ( b ) in subsection ( 6 ) , for the word from " premium " to the end substitute " price payable " . 24 in section 56 ( obligation to grant new lease ) — ( a ) omit subsection ( 2 ) ; ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for the word from " amount of any such premium " to " schedule 13 " substitute " price payable " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 4 ) , for " 7 ( 2 ) " substitute " 7 ( 2A ) " . 25 Omit section 66 ( amendment to the LRA 1967 ) . 26 in section 70 ( 12 ) ( estate management scheme ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " under section 9 " substitute " in accordance with section 9 " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( c ) , for " under Schedule 6 to this Act " substitute " in accordance with section 32 ( 1 ) " . 27 in section 73 ( 10 ) ( application for estate management scheme ) , for the word from the beginning to " it shall " substitute " for the purpose of Schedule 2 to the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 as it apply in relation to an acquisition mention in section 69 ( 1 ) ( a ) or ( b ) , it be to " . 28 ( 1 ) schedule 2 ( special category of landlord ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 1 ( interpretation ) , omit sub - paragraph ( 2 ) . ( 3 ) in paragraph 5 ( trustee ) — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , for the word from " sum " to " chapter I " substitute " share payable to the landlord , as determine under Part 6 of Schedule 2 to the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , of the purchase price in respect of the acquisition of the interest , " ; ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) , for " premium " substitute " share of the price payable " . ( 4 ) in paragraph 7 ( university and college ) — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) , for the word from " sum " to " chapter I " substitute " share payable to the landlord , as determine under Part 6 of Schedule 2 to the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , of the purchase price in respect of the acquisition of the interest " ; ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) , for " premium " substitute " share of the price payable " . ( 5 ) in paragraph 8 ( ecclesiastical landlord ) — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( a ) , omit " or premium " ; ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) ( a ) — ( i ) in the word before paragraph ( i ) , after " by way of " insert " a share of " ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( i ) , for " for any interest in the property on its acquisition " substitute " in respect of the acquisition of any interest in the property " ; ( iii ) in paragraph ( ii ) , for " a premium " substitute " the price payable " ; ( c ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) ( b ) — ( i ) in the word before paragraph ( i ) , after " by way of " insert " a share of " ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( i ) , for " for any interest in property on its acquisition " substitute " in respect of the acquisition of any interest in property " ; ( iii ) in paragraph ( ii ) , for " a premium " substitute " the price payable " . 29 ( 1 ) schedule 5 ( vest order under section 24 and 25 ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 2 ( 1 ) ( execution of conveyance ) , omit " in respect of each of those interest " . ( 3 ) in paragraph 3 ( 1 ) ( the appropriate sum ) — ( a ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) , omit " in respect of any interest " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( a ) , for " Schedule 6 in respect of that interest " substitute " section 32 ( 1 ) " ; ( c ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " that interest " substitute " the transferor ' s interest " . ( 4 ) in paragraph 4 ( effect of payment of appropriate sum ) — ( a ) omit " in respect of that interest " ; ( b ) omit " for the acquisition of that interest " . 30 Omit Schedule 15 ( section 9 of the LRA 1967 as amend by section 66 ) . " — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment would make further amendment to the LRA 1967 and the LRHUDA 1993 that be consequential on clause 9 to 11 and schedule 2 to 4 ( as well as other provision in Schedule 5 ) . schedule 6 - leasehold enfranchisement and extension : miscellaneous amendment Amendments make : 61 , page 155 , line 15 , at end insert — ' repeal of section 18 of the LRHUDA 1993 A1 ( 1 ) the LRHUDA 1993 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) omit section 18 ( collective enfranchisement : requirement to disclose agreement affect specify premise ) . ( 3 ) in consequence — ( a ) in section 32 ( determination of price for collective enfranchisement ) , omit subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) and the " and " precede it ; ( b ) in section 91 ( jurisdiction of tribunal ) , omit subsection ( 2 ) ( c ) . ' this amendment would repeal section 18 of the LRHUDA 1993 , which require a nominee purchaser to disclose agreement affect property specify in an initial notice for collective enfranchisement . amendment 62 , page 156 , leave out line 27 to 30 and insert — ' consequential amendment to the LRA 1967 4 ( 1 ) the LRA 1967 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 16 ( right after extension ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , omit the word before paragraph ( a ) ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 5 ) . ( 3 ) in section 23 ( 5 ) ( b ) ( term of extend tenancy ) , for " section 16 ( 1 ) to ( 6 ) " substitute " section 16 ( 1B ) " . ' this amendment would insert a further consequential amendment to the LRA 1967 in light of the repeal of most of section 16 of that Act . Amendment 63 , page 156 , line 33 , at end insert — " order and regulation under the LRA 1967 5a ( 1 ) the LRA 1967 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after section 36 insert — " order and regulation 36a Orders and regulation ( 1 ) a power to make an order or regulation under any provision of this Part include power to make — ( a ) consequential , supplementary , incidental , transitional or saving provision ; ( b ) different provision for different purpose . ( 2 ) in this section " order " do not include an order of a court or tribunal . " ( 3 ) in paragraph 5 ( 2 ) of Schedule 4A ( regulation relate to exclusion of certain share ownership lease ) , for paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) substitute — " ( a ) make different provision for different area ; " . " this insert a new section into the LRA 1967 to make clear that the power to make order and regulation under that Act include power to make the usual additional kind of provision . it also remove the exist provision deal with those matter currently contain in Schedule 4A . Amendment 64 , page 156 , line 35 , leave out from begin to " paragraph " in line 36 and insert — " 6 " ( 1 ) schedule 1 to the LRA 1967 ( enfranchisement and extension by sub - tenant ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 11 — ( a ) after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) any surrender or provision for the surrender , in accordance with this paragraph , of a tenancy comprise property other than the house and premise , be to be limit to the house and premise . " ; ( b ) omit sub - paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) . ( 3 ) after " this amendment would make provision that be consequential on the exist provision in paragraph 6 of Schedule 6 . amendment 65 , page 157 , line 3 , at end insert — ' ( 1A ) but if the tenancy in possession be a shared ownership lease — ( a ) this paragraph do not apply if , at the relevant time , none of the relevant rent payable under the tenancy in possession be payable in respect of the tenant ' s share in the house and premise ; ( b ) if the tenancy in possession do not reserve separate rent in respect of the tenant ' s share in the house and premise and the landlord ' s share in the house and premise , any rent reserve be to be treat as reserve in respect of the landlord ' s share . ' this provide that rent under lease that be superior to a shared ownership lease can be commute only if some or all the rent payable under the shared ownership lease be payable in respect of the tenant ' s share . amendment 66 , page 158 , line 30 , at end insert — ' ( 1A ) but if the exist lease be a shared ownership lease — ( a ) this paragraph do not apply if , at the relevant date , none of the relevant rent payable under the exist lease be payable in respect of the tenant ' s share in the flat ; ( b ) if the exist lease do not reserve separate rent in respect of the tenant ' s share in the flat and the landlord ' s share in the flat , any rent reserve be to be treat as reserve in respect of the landlord ' s share . ' this provide that rent under lease that be superior to a shared ownership lease can be commute only if some or all the rent payable under the shared ownership lease be payable in respect of the tenant ' s share . Amendment 67 , page 167 , line 14 , leave out " interest " and insert " share " . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this correct an error in this definition , which should be a definition of " landlord ' s share " . schedule 7 - right to vary lease to replace rent with peppercorn rent Amendment propose : 8 , in schedule 7 , page 168 , line 15 , leave out sub - sub - paragraph ( a ) . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment would ensure that all leaseholder , not just those with residential lease of 150 year or over , have the right to vary their lease to replace rent with peppercorn rent . question put , that the amendment be make . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Damien Egan Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Preet Kaur Gill Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Christina Rees Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth John Spellar Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Mary Glindon Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip davy Dehenna Davison Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Scott Mann Mark Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 170 , Noes 299 . question accordingly negative . schedule 7 - right to vary lease to replace rent with peppercorn rentschedule 7 Amendments make : 68 , page 168 , line 25 , leave out from " only " to " a " in line 30 and insert " — ( i ) because a requirement in section 1 of the LRA 1967 for the tenancy to be at a low rent be not meet , ( ii ) because a requirement in section 1 ( 1 ) ( a ) ( i ) or ( ii ) of the LRA 1967 for the house and premise or the tenancy to be above a certain value be not meet , or ( iii ) by virtue of " . this change the language use to refer to provision of the LRA 1967 about rent and value of house so that it be consistent with other provision of the Bill . amendment 69 , page 169 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 7 ) if the qualifying lease be a shared ownership lease , the right to a peppercorn rent apply only in relation to rent payable in respect of the tenant ' s share in the demise premise ( and , accordingly , any rent which be payable in respect of the landlord ' s share in the demise premise be not affect by this schedule ) . ( 8 ) for that purpose , if the qualifying lease do not reserve separate rent in respect of the tenant ' s share in the demise premise and the landlord ' s share in the demise premise , any rent reserve be to be treat as reserve in respect of the landlord ' s share . ( 9 ) in this paragraph — ( a ) ' share ownership lease ' mean a lease of premise — ( i ) grant on payment of a premium calculate by reference to a percentage of the value of the premise or of the cost of provide they , or ( ii ) under which the tenant ( or the tenant ' s personal representative ) will or may be entitle to a sum calculate by reference , directly or indirectly , to the value of the premise ; ( b ) in relation to a shared ownership lease — ( i ) ' tenant ' s share ' mean the tenant ' s initial share in the premise demise by the lease , plus any additional share or share in those demise premise which the tenant have acquire ; ( ii ) ' landlord ' s share ' mean the share in the premise demise by the lease which be not comprise in the tenant ' s share . " this provide that , where the rent under a shared ownership lease be reduce under Schedule 7 to the Bill , only the rent payable in respect of the tenant ' s share will be reduce to a peppercorn rent . amendment 70 , page 173 , line 16 , after " payable " insert " ( whether or not any share of the premium that may be payable under paragraph 8 ( 8a ) have be determine ) " . this make clear that it be not necessary for share of the premium ( where there be intermediate landlord ) to have be calculate for the rent variation notice to be enforceable . amendment 71 , page 174 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( 8a ) each eligible landlord be entitle to be pay a share of the require premium ( see paragraph 7 ) . ( 8b ) an eligible landlord ' s share of the require premium be to be determine use this formula — where the loss suffer by an eligible landlord be the loss which that landlord suffer as a result of the relevant reduction in the rent of the lease by virtue of which they be an eligible landlord ( take into account any relevant reduction in the rent of a lease of which they be the tenant ) . " this would enable the premium payable for a rent reduction to be divide among the various landlord where there be lease that be superior to the lease in respect of which the rent variation notice be give . amendment 72 , page 174 , line 37 , at end insert — " ' eligible landlord ' mean the landlord of a lease whose rent be subject to a relevant reduction ; ' " . this be consequential on Amendment 71 . amendment 73 , page 175 , line 11 , at end insert — " Jurisdiction of the appropriate tribunal in relation to paragraph 8 ( 1 ) the appropriate tribunal may determine any matter arise under paragraph 8 ( reduction of rent under intermediate lease on grant of a new lease ) , include what rent under an intermediate lease be apportion to the qualifying property ( see paragraph 2 ( 6 ) ) . ( 2 ) in relation to paragraph 8 — ( a ) if the landlord under a qualify intermediate lease can not be find or their identity can not be ascertain , the appropriate tribunal may make such order as it think fit , include — ( i ) an order dispense with the requirement to give notice under paragraph 8 ( 3 ) to that landlord , or ( ii ) an order that such a notice have effect and have be property serve even though it have not be serve on that landlord ; ( b ) make an order appoint a person to vary a lease in accordance with paragraph 8 on behalf of the landlord or tenant ; ( c ) if the appropriate tribunal make a determination that a notice under paragraph 8 ( 3 ) be of no effect , it may — ( i ) determine whether another landlord or tenant could have give such a notice , and ( ii ) if it determine that they could have do so , order that paragraph 8 be to apply as if they have do so . ( 3 ) the variation of a lease on behalf of a party in consequence of an order under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( b ) have the same force and effect ( for all purpose ) as if it have be execute by that party . " this give the appropriate tribunal jurisdiction in relation to dispute and other matter arise in relation to paragraph 8 . amendment 74 , page 177 , line 2 , leave out " 10 or " . this amendment be consequential on an amendment make in Committee to remove what be paragraph 10 of Schedule 7 . amendment 75 , page 177 , line 6 , leave out " the LRA 1967 or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 74 . amendment 76 , page 180 , line 3 , at end insert — " action of immediate landlord bind on other landlord 16a ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if there be one or more qualify intermediate lease of property to which a rent variation notice relate . ( 2 ) the follow be bind on the other landlord and on their interest in the property to which the rent variation notice relate or any other property — ( a ) any notice give under this schedule by the immediate landlord to the tenant , ( b ) any agreement for the purpose of this schedule between the immediate landlord and the tenant , and ( c ) any determination of the appropriate tribunal under this Schedule in proceeding between the immediate landlord and the tenant . ( 3 ) the immediate landlord be not liable to any of the other landlord for any loss or damage cause by any act or omission in the exercise or intend exercise of the authority give by sub - paragraph ( 2 ) if the immediate landlord act in good faith and with reasonable care and diligence . ( 4 ) in this paragraph — ' immediate landlord ' mean the immediate landlord under the lease to which the rent variation notice relate ( and to which the rent variation notice must be give ) ; ' other landlord ' mean the landlord under a qualify intermediate lease of property to which the rent variation notice relate ; ' qualify intermediate lease ' have the meaning give in paragraph 8 . duty of immediate landlord to conduct commutation claim on behalf of affected other landlord 16b ( 1 ) this paragraph apply if — ( a ) there be one or more qualify intermediate lease of property to which a rent variation notice relate , and ( b ) notice be give under paragraph 8 ( 3 ) . ( 2 ) the immediate landlord must conduct the response to the tenant ' s claim for a rent reduction on their own behalf and on behalf of the affected other landlord , include by — ( a ) agree the term of variation of the qualifying lease , ( b ) agree the amount of the require premium , ( c ) receive the whole of the require premium and ( where it be so receive ) hold the require premium for themselves and the affected other landlord pende determination of the share of the require premium in accordance with paragraph 8 ( 8a ) , and ( d ) conduct all proceeding arise out of the rent variation notice ( whether the proceeding be for resist or give effect to the claim ) . ( 3 ) if the immediate landlord receive the whole of the require premium , the immediate landlord ' s write receipt for payment of that premium be a complete discharge to the tenant . ( 4 ) sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ( c ) and ( 3 ) do not apply if the price payable be require to be pay into the tribunal by virtue of sub - paragraph ( 6 ) ( c ) . ( 5 ) the immediate landlord be not liable to any of the affected other landlord for any loss or damage cause by any act or omission in compliance or intended compliance with the duty under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) if the immediate landlord act in good faith and with reasonable care and diligence . ( 6 ) any affected other landlord may — ( a ) apply to the appropriate tribunal for direction as to the manner in which the immediate landlord be to exercise the authority give by sub - paragraph ( 2 ) ; ( b ) be separately represent in any proceeding in which the amount of the require premium be be determine ; ( c ) by give notice to the tenant and the immediate landlord , require the tenant to pay into the tribunal the whole of the require premium . ( 7 ) each of the affected other landlord must make such contribution as be just to cost and expense which be properly incur by the immediate landlord in connection with the claim by the tenant under this Schedule but which be not recoverable or recover from the tenant . ( 8 ) the appropriate tribunal — ( a ) may determine any matter arise in relation to the amount of any cost payable by virtue of sub - paragraph ( 7 ) , and ( b ) where it have determine such an amount of cost , may make an order require a person to pay those cost . ( 9 ) the court or the appropriate tribunal may order any affected other landlord to pay to the immediate landlord the cost , or a contribution to the cost , incur by the immediate landlord in obtain from the appropriate tribunal money that have be pay into it in compliance with a requirement impose under sub - paragraph ( 6 ) ( c ) if — ( a ) that affect other landlord impose the requirement , and ( b ) the immediate landlord show that it be unreasonable for that affected other landlord to impose the requirement . ( 10 ) the court or the appropriate tribunal may order the immediate landlord to pay to any affected other landlord the cost , or a contribution to the cost , incur by that affected other landlord in obtain from the appropriate tribunal money that have be pay into it in compliance with a requirement impose under sub - paragraph ( 6 ) ( c ) if — ( a ) that affect other landlord impose the requirement , and ( b ) that affect other landlord show that the requirement be impose because of unreasonable conduct by the immediate landlord . ( 11 ) in this paragraph — ' affected other landlord ' mean the landlord under a qualify intermediate lease of which the rent be to be reduce in accordance with paragraph 8 ( whether by virtue of paragraph 8 ( 3 ) or ( 4 ) ) ; ' immediate landlord ' mean the immediate landlord under the lease to which the rent variation notice relate ( and to which the rent variation notice must be give ) ; ' qualify intermediate lease ' have the meaning give in paragraph 8 ; ' require premium ' mean the require premium payable under paragraph 7 . " this make provision for deal with claim for rent reduction under Schedule 7 if there be multiple landlord because of the existence of lease that be superior to the lease in respect of which the rent variation notice be give . amendment 77 , page 180 , line 21 , second column , leave out from " any " to " have " in line 22 and insert " price payable " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 60 . amendment 78 , page 181 , line 19 , leave out " flat premise " and insert " a flat " . this amendment would align the terminology use in the table with the terminology use in the LRHUDA 1993 . amendment 79 , page 182 , line 20 , leave out " 10 or 16 " and insert " 17 " . this amendment be consequential on an amendment make in Committee to remove what be paragraph 10 of Schedule 7 . amendment 80 , page 182 , line 22 , leave out " the LRA 1967 or " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 79 . amendment 81 , page 182 , line 26 , leave out " regulation under this paragraph be " , and insert " a statutory instrument contain regulation under this paragraph be " . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment would clarify that the statutory instrument contain the regulation be subject to the negative procedure . schedule 8 - part 3 : consequential amendment Amendment make : 82 , Schedule 8 , page 186 , line 35 , leave out paragraph ( e ) . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment be consequential on NC26 . Title Amendments make : 84 , line 1 , leave out " Amend " and insert " prohibit the grant or assignment of certain new long residential lease of house , to amend " . this amendment be consequential on the new Part to be insert before Part 1 ( see NC42 ) . amendment 23 , line 6 , leave out " and to regulate rentcharge " and insert " , to regulate rentcharge and to amend the Building Safety Act 2022 in connection with the remediation of build defect and the insolvency of person who have repair obligation relate to certain kind of building " . — ( Lee Rowley . ) this amendment be consequential on the new Part of the Bill propose to be form by NC30 to NC35 . third read King ' s and Prince of Wales ' s consent signify . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 11 December 2023 ) . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83e ) , that the Bill be now read the third time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . business without Debate Deferred Divisions Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 41a ( 3 ) ) , that , at this day ' s sit , Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motion in the name of Penny Mordaunt relate to the Committee on Standards . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . Committee on Standards Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 149 ( 14 ) ) , that this House : ( 1 ) approve the Second Report of the Committee on Standards , HC 413 ; ( 2 ) endorse the recommendation in paragraph 64 ; and ( 3 ) accordingly suspend Scott Benton from the service of the House for a period of 35 sit day , begin on Wednesday 28 February 2024 . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . delegate Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Northern Ireland that the draft Local Elections ( Northern Ireland ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 10 January , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Representation of the People that the draft Representation of the People ( Postal Vote Handling etc . ) ( Northern Ireland ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 10 January , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , term and Conditions of Employment that the draft Carer ' s Leave Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 11 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , term and Conditions of Employment that the draft Maternity Leave , Adoption Leave and shared Parental Leave ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 11 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Police that the draft West Midlands Combined Authority ( Transfer of Police and Crime Commissioner Functions ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 7 February , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Limited Liability Partnerships that the draft Limited Liability Partnerships ( Application of Company Law ) Regulations 2024 which be lay before this House on 18 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , company that the draft Service Address ( Rectification of Register ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 18 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , company that the draft Principal Office Address ( Rectification of Register ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 18 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , company that the draft Registered Office Address ( Rectification of Register ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 18 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) question agree to . JOINT COMMITTEE on the NATIONAL SECURITY STRATEGY order , that Robert Courts be discharge from the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy and Sir Jeremy Quin be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - Family Visa Minimum Income Thresholds I rise to present a petition urge the Government to reverse their decision to increase the minimum income threshold for family visa . this policy , which will see the income threshold for family reunification visa almost double , will lead to multinational family be tear apart . it will entrench the UK ' s hostile immigration environment , and be likely to be overwhelmingly discriminatory against ethnic minority , particularly British Asians . most concerningly , it threaten the european convention on human right , which grant everyone the right to family life . I believe that Britain be well than cruel policy like this . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to not implement the increase in the minimum income threshold for family visa to £ 38 , 700 . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Manchester Gorton , declare that multinational family be face separation due to the Government ' s decision to increase the income threshold for family reunification from £ 18 , 600 to £ 38 , 700 ; note that there be 82 , 395 family - relate visa grant in the year end September 2023 , with the most common origin country be Pakistan , India and the USA ; far declare that worker of pakistani or Bangladeshi heritage have the low median hourly pay of any ethnic group which may lead this policy to be overwhelmingly discriminatory against british Asians ; and far declare that the European Convention of Human Rights grant everyone the right to family life which this policy could threaten . the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons to urge the Government to not implement the increase in the minimum threshold for family visa to £ 38 , 700 . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002916 ] Road Safety : North Yorkshire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) I be pleased to have the opportunity to use the first Adjournment debate that I have secure to speak about the crucial issue of road safety in North Yorkshire . I have now be in Parliament for seven month , and some of the most transformative change that I have witness in this place have happen when member have respond to genuinely press local need , use every mechanism available to they to fight for their constituent . this be one such case . in my rural constituency , dangerous driver and inadequate speed - calm measure mean that resident in the community I represent live in fear . sadly , accord to datum provide by the House of Commons Library , there be 36 fatal casualty in Selby and Ainsty between 2018 and 2022 . that be second only to the figure in Skipton and Ripon , where 46 fatal casualty occur during the same period . the root cause of the issue in my area be clear . Selby and Ainsty have numerous arterial , high - speed road that pass through village community with inadequate traffic - calm measure , and rural lane and street that be never design for the motor traffic that we see today . when those infrastructure challenge be combine with the action of dangerous and reckless driver , they can have truly lethal consequence . in the village of Hambleton last month , a person tragically lose their life in a very serious collision . they be attempt to cross the A63 , a dangerous main road through the village on which car travel at unsafe speed , even though it be surround by residential new - build estate and very close to a local school . this be not an isolated incident — there have be numerous accident on this specific stretch of road — but despite the work of local resident who have set up a road safety action group , the danger remain . I should be grateful if the Minister could provide some advice about what measure be at the community ' s disposal and can be push so that action be take — action that I will certainly continue to fight for in this House . I want to make something very clear : in North Yorkshire , too much of the debate on road safety have be wrongly co - opt into a wasteful , irresponsible and distract culture war by the conservative party . it hold a majority on North Yorkshire Council and the executive position for highway , and have 10 of the county ' s 12 mp . if the Conservatives want to do something about road safety in my constituency and across the county , they could do so . instead , they have spend recent month jump at shadow , fight anti - motorist policy that do not exist and oppose 20 mph blanket ban that have never be propose . all the while , community in the Selby district be cry out for political representative who will take the issue of road safety seriously . what be too often forget be that when motorist step out of their car in a village like Cawood or a town like Sherburn in Elmet , they be local people who want to enjoy their community in safety and with their family . rather than foment division that do not exist , the Government and North Yorkshire Council need to sit up , get serious and listen to the concern of local resident in my area , who can not wait another day for action to be take . the Minister could forgive resident across North Yorkshire for their confusion over the mixed message they have receive from the conservative party , which have mean that common - sense way to limit dangerous driving have not be take . in a piece of literature send recently to local people in my area , both the local conservative candidate and the party ' s candidate for North Yorkshire Mayor register their opposition to Welsh - style blanket 20 mph limit , which , to my knowledge , not a single representative of either main party in the county have propose . in September , however , the very same mayoral candidate , in his role as executive member for highway and transportation on North Yorkshire Council , praise the " most significant 20 mph zone the council have ever introduce " in Harrogate . I agree and applaud those effort , but I ask why there can be a grow - up discussion about road safety in Harrogate , with seven school have new 20 mph zone place around they , but in the Selby district we have to deal with unsafe road and suffer under a conservative party that be distract by wage a culture war that simply do not exist . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure his first Adjournment debate . I have to say that I do not recognise his characterisation of the way the local council approach road safety issue . he give the example of Harrogate . that particular campaign be start by two resident , Hazel Peacock and Jenny Marks , and it lead to a broad community campaign . the issue of 20 mph zone around school be fairly uncontroversial , particularly when they be adopt alongside such measure as crossing or barrier along the roadside . I have find that introduce simple measure like those have bring community together , and it might be a way to help the hon . Gentleman in Selby and Ainsty . to an extent , I agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s sentiment : it be uncontroversial to have common - sense measure such as 20 mph limit in village , outside school and in urban area . I wish the debate be tret with the seriousness it deserve in my part of North Yorkshire by the council ' s executive member for highway , who have be able to achieve that work in Harrogate . by attempt to turn sensible measure , such as 20 mph zone where they be necessary , into wedge issue in my part of North Yorkshire , the local conservative party disregard the concern of local resident . meanwhile , the council be not take action in village such as Lumby , Monk Fryston and Hambleton , where the immediate safety concern be acute and be badly damage community . People want their council to get on with make their village and town safe . in some case , the excuse for inaction just do not add up . I return to the community of Hambleton , where a local person tragically lose their life . the A63 , which bisect the village , be a long , straight stretch of road use by parent with pram , elderly resident and large group of schoolchildren . it be cry out for pedestrian island , but North Yorkshire Council have argue that footfall on the road be insufficient , use datum from a study that be take during a school holiday . although I be pleased that the council have commit to reassess the area due to the fatality that occur , an accident should not have have to happen for people to realise that action need to be take . in Monk Fryston , over 800 local resident petition for a pedestrian crossing on the A64 , and they continue to have my full support . North Yorkshire Council have acknowledge , in my correspondence with it , that speed be excessive on the road , but it have refuse to implement the crossing because it say that there be not a suitable location . I know that the installation of traffic - calm measure be a complicated business , but this road be the key link between Selby and Leeds , provide people with access to the A1 . again , the A64 bisect the village , leave resident on the other side with no access to local amenity . I ask the Minister to join I in put the case to North Yorkshire Council that Monk Fryston can not be hold back and disregard any long in its campaign for common - sense traffic - calm measure . I now turn to the wide issue of speeding , which I know be of concern to all our constituent . in Brayton , which lie just to the south of Selby , there have be consistent and widespread concern about speed along Barff Lane . I be glad that by work with local agency such as North Yorkshire police , resident ' concern have be hear and measure have be take to tackle the chronic problem of speeding on Barff Lane . there be now a speed - activate warning sign along the road and North Yorkshire police be in the process of identify a suitable location for camera van site , which will do much to ensure that driver along the road follow the speed limit and will ultimately save life in Brayton . regrettably , speeding be also see in other place in my constituency , include Cawood , an extremely rural village whose road be not fit for the amount of traffic that it see or for car go at the speed that they do . I recently hold a drop - in event for the community there , and a significant number of resident raise the issue of speeding and dangerous driving on Sherburn Street . I want to make it clear that the safety of resident in Cawood should be a top priority for both North Yorkshire Council and North Yorkshire police . although I have be assure by the council that there be several exist traffic - calm measure in Sherburn Street , they be in reality have a minimal impact on speeding in Cawood . I would greatly appreciate any support the Minister can give I and local resident in work with North Yorkshire Council and the police to push for measure that will provide a lasting solution to this issue . it be clear that we have a lot to do , both in Selby and Ainsty and across North Yorkshire , to improve road safety . every single injury and road death in our community be one too many , and we must all work together to prevent this debate from be reduce to meaningless , wasteful and distract culture war when our constituent be cry out for common - sense change . we need to ensure that local family and the community in which they live be protect across the length and breadth of our great county , and I look forward to work with anyone who be willing to make this a reality . I congratulate the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) on secure his first Adjournment debate . I think this be the first time I have have the opportunity to answer question from he in the House of Commons , so I congratulate he on win the by - election . my research tell I that he be bear in 1998 , which be a very scary thought for those of we who well remember 1998 . it be of particular concern to I that when he first come to the House , he indicate to I that he use to work for my first parliamentary staffer , Pete McManus , whom he describe as my boss . it be a worry when thing be so proximate that the age of individual member of Parliament be catch up on you . I be sure that that be not an issue for anyone else in the House but it definitely be for I . I take this debate very seriously , and the hon . Gentleman rightly raise the concern of his constituent . I pass on my condolence on behalf of the Government and on behalf of everyone here today for the recent fatality that have take place . before respond to the essence of what he say , I want to make it clear that every death or serious injury on our road — not just in North Yorkshire but up and down the country — be a tragedy , and we continue to work tirelessly to improve road safety for all user . that be not just driver ; it be also pedestrian , motorcyclist , cyclist and mobility scooter user . however , the fact be that Britain have some of the safe road in the world . the most recent record show that 1 , 711 people be kill and 28 , 000 seriously injure on our road . however , that be clearly a tragedy for any individual so affected and for their family , and we want to work to address that . I want to make a number of point . speed - calm measure be a massive part of the hon . Gentleman ' s speech . local authority , as he rightly identify , have power under the Highways Act 1980 to install a range of traffic - calm measure . road hump , chicane and other such feature have all be prove to reduce inappropriate vehicle speed , which , as well as reduce the risk of collision , lessen the severity of any that do occur . there be also the ability to install other measure to improve road safety , such as pedestrian crossing and 20 mph speed limit . the Department for Transport produce a wide range of good practice advice to help our local authority to design and deliver such measure . it be for the local council to decide what measure may be appropriate in different location , take into account a vast number of criterion . the Department do not set numerical criterion for footfall or collision number that must be meet to justify the installation of such safety measure . local authority can choose to set their own criterion , but that be a decision for they . I now turn to the vexed issue of 20 mph zone . every member will be acutely aware that the introduction of a not total but effective 20 mph zone in Wales have be a singularly unpopular policy that have cause great concern , and it be certainly not something that the Government support . on the other hand , as far as I be aware , not a single Member of Parliament be against the concept of 20 mph zone around school . there have to be a happy medium , and that be a local authority decision . there be all manner of different factor , include how a zone will influence quality of life , road safety , the environment and the local economy . local authority should also take into account the Department ' s plan for driver . to assist they , we be update the 20 mph speed limit guidance for England to ensure consistency . I ask for the road safety statistic for the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency date back some considerable time , and my source be the stats19 datum adjust for change in reporting system . there be 46 ksi — kill or seriously injure — casualty on an adjusted basis in 2022 , compare with 138 in 2009 . we all accept that all the number be too high . there be much criticism of both the local authority and this government , but I gently point out that Labour be in government in 2009 . there be a significant difference , and the number have be in double figure since 2013 . one can bandy around statistic , but it be clear that the number have come down significantly . there be a couple of key point to note . first , there have clearly be significant investment in North Yorkshire with the A59 Kex Gill scheme , the A164 Jock ' s Lodge junction improvement , the A1237 York outer ring road dualling and the A1079 improvement scheme . I merely make the point that those road improvement have inevitably improve safety . the Minister will have see that , yesterday , York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority be allocate £ 380 million from the local transport fund . when we have a local Mayor in place , could that money be use to fund road safety improvement through capital project ? the answer be yes , quite simply . it be legitimate to say that this new money for area across the country , which be announce only yesterday , be a result of the Prime Minister ' s decision on the second leg of High Speed 2 . a £ 4 . 7 billion , seven - year local transport fund have be make available to a large number of local authority outside the city region — city region receive city region sustainable transport settlement — in the north and midland . the LTF include £ 2 . 5 billion for local authority in the north and £ 2 . 2 billion for local authority in the midland , and that funding will be available from 1 April 2025 . this allow local authority and combined authority to plan and set their process , to consult in the appropriate way and then to deliver . the York and North Yorkshire Combined Authority will receive £ 379 million — I correct my hon . friend by £ 1 million — from the local transport fund , which will be game change . there be much criticism of the local authority , but I meet Keane Duncan , local representative and member of Parliament when I visit the region at the beginning of January . I be impress by their commitment to try to do transformational work for North Yorkshire , which include make the case for further funding . as my hon . friend outline , we have be delighted to set forth and provide that . it can bring about road improvement , pelican crossing , road safety measure and traffic - calm measure , and can address other particular point . the guidance will be publish shortly , but the fact that it be dramatic new money to assist with specific transport policy can only be welcome . I wish to make a few extra point . road safety be determined , fundamentally , by individual driver . we should all acknowledge that we can throw brickbat at local authority or Government , but we require driver to change their way . when my hon . friend be in the Department for Transport , he institute change to the highway code and to the drive test . the test that those of we of more advanced year take be dramatically different from the one take by someone of more recent year , and the highway code be also dramatically different . it include a hierarchy of road user and make it very clear that there be a great degree of reliance upon safety ; we be conscious that the driver need to be well qualified . there be no comparison between the old test and the new test . that have make a difference , which can be see in the reduction in the number that we see in the safety statistic . that be just the tip of the iceberg , and I wish to set out some of the other Government intervention that have be make . the safe road fund have invest £ 47 . 5 million to fund 27 scheme , take the total funding to tackle our most dangerous road to £ 147 . 5 million over 83 scheme since 2017 . we have make intervention to legislate to address some of the most dangerous activity on our road . clearly , the rule on mobile phone have change . we have also increase the sentence for cause death by dangerous driving , or careless driving while under the influence of drink or drug , from 14 year ' to life imprisonment . we have increase the disqualification period for those cause death by dangerous driving or death by careless driving when under the influence of drink or drug from two year to five . we have also undertake a number of project to improve the safety of our road , include the road police review , whereby the number of force put road police in their police and crime plan have increase from 15 to 42 , with 30 now include road safety . road policing have be a strategic policing requirement since February 2023 . that sound techy but it genuinely make a difference . our Project RADAR be a systematic investigation that be create new opportunity to combine and compare datum across Departments , arm ' s length body and police . that be identify and intercept the most dangerous vehicle on our road . I could go on . this be a wonderful debate and I commend the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty ( Keir Mather ) for bring it to the Floor of the House . I thank the Minister for permit I to intervene . he will be very aware of my interest in the increase in insurance premium , as we have a Westminster Hall debate on that last week . People be now decide not to insure their vehicle and still go on the road , which be increase risk . do he agree that action be need to ensure that we support young driver to get on the road , but to do so safely ? will he far consider the graduated driver licensing scheme , which I believe would help with that safety element for young people ? the hon . Lady be continue in a rich tradition establish by her illustrious colleague the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . we miss he in the debate today , but we take she as a very able replacement . her debate last week be attend by a number of colleague and I have have a chance to read it ; I should have be respond to it , but I happen to be respond to the Adjournment debate in this place at the same time and , as we all know , nobody can be in two place at the same time in the House of Commons , so I apologise , but the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for South Cambridgeshire ( Anthony Browne ) , sit in for I at that debate . I will take away the comment that the hon . Lady make today and in last week ' s debate , and write to she in more detail , if she would be so gracious as to allow I to do so . I take on board that there be clearly ongoing issue in respect of insurance . we be work with insurance company ; there have be issue around raise the price of insurance that be , quite frankly , beyond the Government ' s control . she make some legitimate point on the matter , and we want to address those that she raise both in the debate last week and today . let I back to the point make by the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty . there be certain key campaign ; change to the highway code and drive test be key , because we be try to change driver ’ behaviour . that be the most important thing . we can rail against individual piece of road , but change the behaviour of driver be the real way to improve road safety . the Department for Transport ' s THINK ! campaign continue to target the most at - risk group . its aim be to reduce the number of people kill and seriously injure on the road by change attitude and behaviour . I could go on in more detail , but I will make a couple of final point . the safe road fund have undertake key project in North Yorkshire , include £ 900 , 000 for the a167 , £ 615 , 000 for the a682 , £ 7 million for the A684 and £ 2 . 9 million for the A6108 . those be substantial investment that the Government have make in the past . substantial investment will also follow yesterday ' s announcement , which make this debate all the more relevant . to conclude , I congratulate the hon . member for Selby and Ainsty on secure his first debate . he raise important point for his local community , and I be certain they will be take on board . I would gently push back on the point he make about local statistic , the action of his local authority and the complexity of the issue . the key point be that it be in all our interest to try to improve road safety up and down the country . question put and agree to . House adjourn .