I thank the hon . Gentleman for represent the concern of his constituent ' s family . I recognise that this be a very distressing time for they . he will that know consular official be provide support to the family and have remain in regular contact with the authority in Italy , and the ambassador have raise this case with the italian authority . they have end the active search , but the investigation be ongoing , and I would be happy to meet the hon . gentleman to discuss it far . it be very important for I to visit the occupy territory and Israel within the first week in office . we say this in opposition and we say it again in government : of course , give the hostage who be still in Israel , Israel have a right to defend itself , but it be a qualified right — it have always be , within international humanitarian law . the scale of civilian loss of life — the child and the woman who have lose their life , the aid worker who have lose their life — against a backdrop in which journalist be not allow into the country have be a matter of deep concern and worry across the international community , so of course I have raise these issue . it be also important to meet hostage family and to be absolutely clear that we want to see those hostage return . it be a privilege to make my maiden speech while you be in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you for the opportunity to follow such wonderful maiden speech , particularly that of the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) ; I pay tribute to she and to her mother . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) , the first ever Labour Member for his constituency . I thank my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) for bow out of the competition with Peterborough over which constituency be the most beautiful . I can think of no more important debate in which to make my maiden speech than one about secure our economic stability for my city and this country to flourish . as the gateway to the fen , the home of food and farming , Peterborough be willing to play its part in rebuild our country . I be the fifth MP for Peterborough in seven year — we have three in 2019 alone — so I hope to bring to my tenure as a local MP the much - herald stability that my party ' s Front Benchers talk about . I pay tribute to my predecessor , who all care deeply about our city and work hard to be a voice for our need on the national stage . it turn out that I have some illustrious predecessor . I feel I may be let my constituent down : it be fitting , during the Olympics , to pay tribute to David Cecil , who enter Parliament have already win a gold medal at the 1928 Olympics . I look forward to talk about my egg - and - spoon race at school . I would also like to thank my immediate predecessor Paul Bristow and his staff for their incredible hard work look after resident in need in our city . I be proud to be part of the large intake of Co - operative mps in Parliament ' s history . co - operative and community value run deep in Peterborough . I be the second Labour and Co - operative MP to serve our city ; the first be Stanley Tiffany , who be elect in another significant change election in 1945 . I note that Tiffany ' s first question in the House , in August 1945 , be to the then Minister of Health , Nye Bevan , on affordable and rural housing . the answer be that housing be a priority for the incoming Labour Government of 1945 . almost 80 year later , that challenge remain . I be pleased to see that affordable housing will be one of the priority of the Labour Government come into power in 2024 . tiffany ' s root be in the Peterborough and District Co - operative Society . I be incredibly proud to have be elect alongside Labour colleague on a pledge to double the size of the co - operative economy — a pledge that Tiffany could be proud of . just a few week ago , I meet staff at the Co - op store in Eye in Peterborough to hear about the rise in shoplifting and the abuse that too many of they face . abuse should never be part of the job . I put on record my thank to the retail worker in Peterborough and around the country who serve we every day . I pledge to work tirelessly with my good friend in the co - operative movement , the trade union and this House to give retail worker the dignity and protection at work that they need . we be also home to the wonderful English Mustard Growers co - operative , which be form in 2009 to keep mustard production alive in the UK after the disastrous harvest of 2007 . many people here will know our crop as Colman ' s mustard . today , there be over 40 grow member , include our very own Michael Sly , who be base at Park Farm in Thorney . in Peterborough , we really do cut the mustard . Peterborough have welcome people from across the country and the world for generation as a city , and even more so when we become a new town . I be one of those people who have choose to make Peterborough my home . the new town promise of a decent home , a good job and a great place to live remain as important today as ever , but it be a promise that have fray over the past 14 year . Peterborough be a work city with a rich history ; we work hard , care for our community and love our country . we be deeply rooted in an industrial heritage of food , farming and engineering . we be home to a breathtaking cathedral , majestic mosque , and urban landscape surround by the fen and poet John Clare ' s country . we exemplify Clare ' s word : " I find the poem in the field and only write they down " . we be at the heart of sugar beet country and the home of British Sugar . we show how urban and rural can live successfully side by side . we have a rich history and a bright future for food and farming , and I thank the farming community and my good friend in the National Farmers Union for their advice and friendship . in my time in this House , I will always be a champion for food security and for grow more food in this country . we draw on our engineering heritage of Perkins Engines , Caterpillar and Peter Brotherhood , and can use that heritage to create new , high - skilled job and apprenticeship for the future . we be home to a new and grow university campus in the form of Anglia Ruskin University Peterborough , and to a new centre for green technology at Peterborough college , work to transition blue - collar opportunity to green - collar one in hydrogen , electric vehicle and sustainable construction . we be also home to a rich diversity of community , language and tradition , from the Italians who arrive after the second world war to eastern Europeans and a large Kashmiri and pakistani community . visit Azad Kashmir last year with friend from Peterborough remain a highlight of my life . the beauty of that land and of its people impress upon I the need to speak up on Kashmir in this House . however , we also face challenge . nearly half the child in my constituency be grow up in poverty , and in some area , that figure be even high . for working - class parent such as mine , the promise be that by work hard , their child could get on . the great nobility I have know be work - class pride : the pride in good work , see your child succeed , and the ability to get on in life . that social contract have be break , and we be all the poor for it . I put on record my love and gratitude to my parent for instill that pride in I and for push I to do more . I believe they be watch I on telly today , unless I be up against Tom Daley in the diving . I also thank the trade union movement I have grow up in and be part of for my whole life for give I the skill , opportunity and confidence to stand for election , and now to stand in this House make this speech . over the past few year , I have have the immense privilege to serve as deputy general secretary of Prospect and Bectu , and to serve internationally as one of the trade union delegate to the OECD ' s AI expert panel , add my voice on international issue . the trade union movement make Britain a well place : every day , the contribution of thousand of workplace volunteer keep people safe at work , help people get on at work , and add to our economic wealth . I be proud to be union make . I will finish with this point : one of the thing that drive I to stand for election this time be the sad passing of my brother in 2016 . Richard ' s sudden pass from an accident follow by sepsis be tragic , but it also bring home to I that my family be only able to get through it with the help and care of NHS staff , who look after my brother and my family . sepsis be something this House have learn more about recently due to the bravery of the former Member for South Thanet , who I pay tribute to . the NHS and our public servant be the good of we , and I give this commitment in the House today : that I will use whatever time I have in this place to champion the NHS , but also to champion awareness of the danger and terror of sepsis and what it do to people and their family . Peterborough stand ready to play our part in rebuild our country . we have drive , dedication and purpose , and with a Government on our side , we look forward to drive opportunity in Peterborough and around the country . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to be call to make my maiden speech as Member of Parliament for Maidenhead , a place I have always be proud to call home . I recognise the fantastic maiden speech make by the hon . member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) : his passion for his constituency be clear from his speech , and I know he will be a fantastic representative of his constituent . next time I be put mustard on one of my ham sandwich , I will be think of he and his constituency , although maybe not of the pun he make . as a new MP , I be send a very early email by the fantastic team at the House of Commons Library with maiden speech from my predecessor , to get an idea about what I might like to say . but consider that since its inception in 1997 my constituency , Maidenhead , have only have one prior MP , there be not a lot to go on . I must start , therefore , by pay tribute to that predecessor , Theresa May , who represent the Maidenhead constituency for 27 year . during her time on the front Benches and in no . 10 she make sure that she put Maidenhead first . once , famously , have spend a week of late night in negotiation in the EU , she get off the plane in London and head straight for a school carol concert in the town centre . although I disagree with she on many thing , her dedication to the people of Maidenhead be something that I admire and hope to emulate . Hers be big — often very much report on by the medium — shoe to fill . unlike my namesake , Sir Joshua Reynolds , I can not paint to save my life ; but fortunately for I and my constituent , the village of Cookham in my constituency have give we Stanley Spencer , whose work be memorialise in the Stanley Spencer Gallery on the high street . we be lucky to still have a thriving art scene around Maidenhead and all our village . Maidenhead be a special place ; it have a rich history . it be where Charles I meet his child for the last time , in the Greyhound inn , now home to the NatWest bank , before his execution in 1649 . fortunately , visitor to Maidenhead today would discover a fantastic array of place to eat . the village of Bray have no less than seven Michelin star to its name , but to find fantastic food in Maidenhead you need not go to a restaurant approve by the Michelin man . you can go to Bakedd , ToMo , Sauce and Flour , the Borough or Seasonality — just some of the fantastic place to eat that Maidenhead have to offer . any time you fancy a trip down the Elizabeth line , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will be more than happy to take you to any of they . part of Maidenhead ' s history have always be the bridge over the Thames . soon after the first bridge be put up , in 1280 , the town start to build . the current incarnation of Maidenhead bridge have be stand since the mid - 1700s . the toll on Maidenhead bridge be remove on the night of 31 October 1903 , in a move that , have it be do today , probably would not have be worthy of attention from the Office for Budget Responsibility . however , it be so significant to resident of Maidenhead that they gather by the bridge and , as the clock strike midnight , take apart the toll gate and throw they into the river . another part of our history — famous for bridge — be the Brunel - design Maidenhead railway bridge , otherwise know as the " sound arch " , which open in 1839 , attract significant attention for its innovative low - rise arch design . sceptical boss at the Great Western Railway insist that he leave the scaffolding in place because they do not believe it to be safe . Rumour have it , though , that Brunel comply with their request . know that it be not necessary , he decide not to attach the scaffolding to the bridge . sure enough , the wooden structure be soon blow away by a storm , and Brunel ' s bridge have stand the test of time ever since . Maidenhead be also home to the late Sir Nicholas Winton , who be remember in the Nicholas Winton memorial garden in Oaken Grove park and in a statue on platform 3 of Maidenhead station . Sir Nicholas , dub by the press the " British Schindler " , help to save the life of 669 child who be evacuate from Czechoslovakia to Britain as part of the Kindertransport in 1939 . Sir Nicholas leave we in 2015 , have reach the grand age of 106 ; but his life and legacy as one of the great humanitarian be remember in the town . it be fair to say that the Palace of Westminster be slightly large than Maidenhead town hall , where I be recently a cabinet member for community and leisure . however , what the town hall lack in grandeur , statue and stain - glass window , it make up for in its television claim to fame . I be of course talk about the fact that it be use as the location for " carry on Doctor " . when I be work in the town hall , I often see an excited fan run up to the building to take photo , only to look slightly disappointed , know that they have travel so far to see a 1960 office block . last but not least on today ' s Maidenhead history tour , I can not fail to mention that the Spice Girls once famously share a house in Maidenhead before they burst on to the music scene in 1996 . I say that even if it be three year before I be bear ! maidenhead be so much more than just the town . I have already mention Cookham , which have be part of the constituency since it be establish in 1997 , and I have mention Bray , which move into Maidenhead from the Windsor constituency , bring those Michelin star along with it . it be , however , also home to Binfield , Warfield and Winkfield , which move into the constituency at this election . they may be the new part of the constituency , but they be just as important as the rest of it , and I look forward to spend time in each of they over the next few week as we head into recess . I must pay tribute to Maidenhead ' s fantastic primary and secondary school . they work to give pupil from all walk of life and all ability the good start that they can have . I be hugely grateful to my teacher at Alwyn , Courthouse and Furze Platts Senior school for the work and the help they give I . without it , I would not be speak in the House today . it would be remiss of I , however , not to talk about the challenge that we face locally . a significant number of resident in my community live in poverty , and homelessness be on the rise along with reliance on food bank . our local baby bank , found by local resident Rebecca and Councillor Amy Tisi , be see increase demand for its service . we must take action on fuel poverty , extend free school meal and restore the basic standard of live that vulnerable resident need the most . health service be patchy in Maidenhead , with GP surgery under phenomenal pressure and the near general hospital be in Slough . I be determined to see the walk - in centre reopen at St Mark ' s hospital after it be close down as a temporary measure at the beginning of covid lockdown . I want to see the site expand to cope with all the new home and development that be be build and propose for the area . my promise to resident be that I will not let up in my effort to close the health gap in Maidenhead . Maidenhead be a beautiful constituency , but if we be not careful its waterway , from Binfield cut in the south to the Thames in the north , will become open sewer . I have pledge to resident in Cookham , Hurley , the Walthams , Bray , Binfield , Warfield , Winkfield and North Ascot that I will fight tirelessly to clean up their river . I look forward to work with every single one of my colleague in this House over the next few year to help make that happen . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech , and may I congratulate you on your election ? I also congratulate all those who have speak for the first time today and over the last two week . the speech we have hear have be an incredible guide to the UK , and should make we all proud of the country we collectively represent . I offer my congratulation to the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) on his contribution , and wish he well in his time in the House . may I say , as an MP at the other end of the Elizabeth line and a " Carry on " fan , that I accept his invitation to dinner ? may I first pay tribute to my two immediate predecessor ? first , there be my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , now represent a small version of that seat . he mark 30 year as an MP this year , and I know he be well respected in this House . he be a well - know figure to local people and be recognise as a diligent constituency MP . indeed , canvass the area I gain from he , the most common question be , " where ' s Stephen ? " as a former councillor in his constituency , I want to thank he for his support . I also follow on from Lyn Brown , who retire at the election after 19 year ' service in this House and an impressive 36 year total elect service to the borough of Newham . I know Lyn make a big impact in Parliament and leave a strong legacy . I want to thank she for all her support in the last few year , especially during the election . her support and advice have be invaluable , and I know that support other Members be part of her record in this place . West Ham and Beckton have a long history , but this be a new seat make up of the southern half of the old West Ham and the Beckton and dock area of the large East Ham seat . the area have have multiple constituency over the year , include at one point Ernest Bevin ' s old south London seat of Woolwich East , which take in North Woolwich , the part of Kent that be north of the Thames — a curious but often forget bit of history , with a completely baffle county border . other who have represent part of this area in recent time include Jim Fitzpatrick and the irrepressible Tony Banks , but the first Labour MP to represent here be the original Keir — Keir Hardie , the found father of the Labour party , who be first elect to Parliament in West Ham South in 1892 . in 1906 , will Thorne , the founder of the union that be today GMB , which be found in Canning Town in the heart of my constituency , be elect to the same seat . when he be elect , there be just 29 labour mp . thing have move on somewhat since then . in fact , I be tell that more mp be member of the GMB than be member of the conservative party ; I thank they for demonstrate that so beautifully this afternoon . I say this not to be controversial , but mainly to drum up some canvass support for the next election . this be a big legacy to take on , because West Ham and Beckton have be at the heart of the Labour movement ' s history for over a century . it be also at the heart of this country ' s economic history . it contain the Royal Docks , which be the centre of much of the country ' s shipping and trade until their decline and closure in the early 1980 . the area be also a hub for manufacturing and infrastructure , much of which , but not all , have since go . Beckton gas work may now be primarily remember for its spoil heap , which become Beckton alp , and its one - time ski slope open by Princess Diana , or as a film location for many movie and music video , most notably " full Metal Jacket " . Beckton be , however , still the site of Europe ' s large sewage treatment plant . he be not here any more , but I be hope that might reassure my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) a little bit . it be a key part of Bazalgette ' s work to clean up London in the victorian era and today be part of the Thames tideway tunnel . sadly , river pollution be still a topical issue , two century on , as be so eloquently outline by the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) . many industry have go , and shipbuilde at Harland & Wolff and the Thames ironwork be just a memory — although the local football team the ironwork , which start in West Ham , be do all right — but company in some traditional industry , include Britvic and Tate & Lyle , still have big local factory at the heart of the community , and that be . the constituency be also a key element of London ' s economic future . the ExCel exhibition centre bring in 4 million visitor every year . London city airport be London ' s most central airport and be important to the City of London . we be also the new home of London City Hall and have London ' s only enterprise zone , which aim to create 35 , 000 new job and ten of thousand of new home on brownfield site . education be also thrive , include at the University of East London and the London Design & Engineering university technical college . locally , we like to celebrate our heritage , and you will find many park , building and road name after local hero from the art , sport , politic and public life , such as local boxer and footballer , the speedway star of the ' 30 , ' 40s and ' 50 who use to thrill on the racetrack at the old West Ham stadium in Custom House , and local factory worker and suffragette leader Minnie Baldock , who found the first London branch of the Women ' s Social and Political Union . the same go for momentous event in London ' s history ; the meeting in 1931 of Mahatma Gandhi and Charlie Chaplin be mark by the Gandhi Chaplin memorial garden , which be on the site of the house where they meet . most recently , to mark the move of City Hall , we honour Sri Lankan first world war veteran and pioneer race relation campaigner Kamal Chunchie , who fight for well life for the local black and asian community , and who , in 1926 , found the Coloured Men ' s Institute , where City Hall now stand , to far that aim . he speak to the diversity of my constituency . we be one of the most diverse place in the country , with community from every part of the world work and live alongside one another . it be what make the area such a great place to live and to represent . each community that arrive add to the mix , but also join in those long - stand east London tradition of hard work , community spirit and plain speak . Kamal Chunchie also remind we that while much focus be place on the change that have happen since 1945 , there have be diversity much long . in the 1920 , Canning Town have the large black community in London . Migration have be a fact of east London life for century . german immigration into east London in the victorian era be part of my family history . the debate around those who choose to make the UK their home be frequently too narrow , and too often drive by populist voice . we forget our history at our peril , but east London be a testament to its vibrancy . my constituent do not lack ambition , aspiration or talent — they have it in inspirational quantity — but too often , they lack opportunity . poverty be a real issue and , in recent year , have become much bad . locally , we have see child go to event in the hope of get food because they be hungry ; parent sleep in shift on mattress on the floor because there be not enough room for the whole family to have bed ; and child force to do their homework in the bathroom because there be no other space for they to do it . this Government be elect on a mandate for change . for many of my constituent , that be not an aspiration ; it be a necessity . my early Labour predecessor be send here to represent those who have no voice , those who need to be lift out of poverty and those who deserve a well life . I be under no illusion ; more than a century on , that demand be still real . I have be send here to support change , and to fight to improve life . it be my great regret that my father be no long alive to see I elect . it would have mean a lot to he . his advice to I be , " make sure you always do your good , because no one can ask more of you . " in my election acceptance speech , I promise my good to my constituent , and I repeat that promise today . I will do the good I can for everyone in West Ham and Beckton , and I will give my good to this House , too . I believe that together we can achieve the absolute good for our country and the people of my constituency . the people of West Ham and Beckton deserve no less . I be just be honest — honesty in politic ! my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) make a very important point that we should all heed about civility in politic . he speak about the diverse community spirit in his area , but I be not go to even begin to compete with he on how impressive the coastline be in my landlocked suburban constituency . the hon . member for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) speak about how special and sunny her constituency be . she begin a new competition ; now it be not only who have the most beautiful constituency , but the sunny . I be very touch by her recognition of the importance of family for both inspiration and practical support in politic . my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) speak about his Co - operative and trade union value , which I think many of we Labour Members share . I do not know until he speak about the connection between Peterborough and mustard , so that be something I have learn today . I think that his focus on the promise of new town really sum up our sense of optimism for the future . there be the idea of be proud of one ' s heritage , and honest about the challenge that we face , but he be also ready to achieve more in the future with a Government who support he . I wish he great stability in his seat . the hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) give a particularly rich history of his constituency , which go from bridge to " carry on " movie , and he also mention the Spice Girls . I think a Spice Girls CD be the first I ever buy , but he may not know what a cd be . that sum up the different perspective we come from . my hon . friend the Member for West Ham and Beckton ( James Asser ) speak about the Royal Docks , where I spend much time in a previous role work at City Hall ; I see the great potential that that area of the capital city have . he eloquently set out the combination of heritage and diversity , past and present , that make his constituency such a lively and wonderful place to represent . I make he an offer : when he be jump on the Elizabeth line to visit the hon . member for Maidenhead , he can stop off at West Ealing to say hello to I . the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) speak honestly about the importance of keep people in this place on their toe . that be right ; the electorate do keep we on our toe , and one of the great benefit of our system be the way in which we be bring down to earth every time we go back to our constituency on Thursdays or Fridays . however great and important the debate in this place be , when we knock on that door or sit down in our surgery , we be bring right back down to earth . it be a great feature of our political system , and she be right to draw attention to it . my hon . friend the Member for Kettering ( Rosie wrighting ) speak about how proud she be of the history of the place that she now represent and where she grow up . I be very move to hear she speak about her mum ' s role as a local youth worker , and how that inspire she to do what she be do in life . I wish she well as one of the young mps in this place . my hon . friend the Member for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) speak about the natural beauty of his constituency — he be not the first Member to do so today — and the passion of the people there . his comment about politic be as much about listen as speak be particularly thoughtful . we should all bear that in mind in this place . he make an important point about learn from those with whom we disagree , or maybe only appear to disagree , and about break down barrier through listen and have conversation . my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) speak about business and voluntary project in his constituency . he underscore how important it be that taxpayer ' money be treat with respect . I know that the resident of York Outer will be very well serve by the excellent new MP we hear from today . my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) , whom I enjoy campaign with during the general election , manage to inject some humour into economic , which be quite an achievement for a maiden speech . I be not even go to begin to try to replicate that in my comment just now , but she speak passionately about the importance to those in her constituency of have access to nature and affordable housing . I know from what she say , particularly about her personal experience , that she will be a true champion for break down barrier to opportunity . finally , we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) , and it be worth the wait to hear his wonderful speech . he give a fantastic whistle - stop tour of his constituency , and make many excellent recommendation of where to eat and drink next time we be in the area . what really come across be how connected he be to the community he represent , through his neighbour , his friend and his family . he use a phrase that sum up well what I and other Government Members want to do : unite and serve . those be all the maiden speech we have today . it be a truly excellent tour of not just the country , but the talent we have in this place follow the general election . I wish all hon . member very well for however many year they spend in this place . we hear from other member about the substance of the Bill , include the shadow Ministers . they both seem a bit confused about whether they support the OBR and the Bill . I be glad that they confirm that they support the Bill and will not vote against it , but at one point the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) seem to defend Liz Truss over her handling of the economy . he must be pretty much the last person in the country willing to do so ; it be certainly brave of he . we Government member be clear on why the OBR be so important and what its role should be . the Bill set out to strengthen that . the hon . Gentleman ask what the purpose of the fiscal lock might be . the fiscal lock will prevent the sidelining of the OBR by give it the power to start an assessment if the Government announce fiscally significant policy without one . I remind he that the current shadow Chancellor say , at the time of the disastrous mini - Budget , that some of the difficulty be cause by the lack of a forecast , so this be something that the opposition agree with . the shadow Minister also ask about the definition of an emergency . we be very clear that in emergency — for instance , during the pandemic — it may be necessary for the Government to take rapid action . in those case , it would not be appropriate to hold back the response to the emergency until a forecast could be produce . finally , he ask whether the OBR report trigger by the fiscal lock will be publish . I can answer he simply : they will . that be set out in section 8 of the original Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011 . I welcome the support from the Lib Dem spokesperson , the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , for the Bill . she ask about the definition of " significant " , a point also raise by my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) . the threshold set out in the draft charter for budget responsibility , which we have on the gov . uk website , be 1 % of gdp in any single financial year . the purpose of the legislation be to prevent large irresponsible fiscal announcement that could undermine economic stability , and that require a threshold target at fiscally significant announcement . that be why we have choose that figure in the draft legislation and the draft text publish on gov . uk . let I mention two other member who speak in the debate . I welcome the support of the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) for the Bill . I think that his only criticism be one word in the terminology , and we can probably live with that . he say that he be nauseous from hear we talk about be a Government of service , but he may have to get use to feel nauseous , because we will proudly be a Government of service every day that we have the honour to serve . finally , I be glad that this be not an exceptional debate in which the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) do not make an intervention . I welcome his support for the Bill , and for the Government ' s wide action in resolve the junior doctor ’ industrial dispute . I reassure he that , like my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , I recognise the importance of work with political representative from all nation in the UK . as my right hon . Friend say at the beginning of this debate , a crucial first step to achieve sustain economic growth be deliver economic stability . this Bill will help provide that stability and ensure that fiscal responsibility be not only embed in our approach to government , but lock into how government work from this point on . it will make sure that there be always proper scrutiny of the Government ' s fiscal plan , reinforce credibility and trust , and make sure that no government can ever again play fast and loose with the public finance . the Bill be a key step in fix the foundation of our country as we set out to get the economy grow and to make family across Britain more secure and well off . we now know that the Conservatives call the election to run away from the problem that they have cover up , rather than take the tough decision to fix they . while they may have run away from the problem that they create , they can not run away from their record in office . People in Britain will not forget the last government ' s recklessness in 2022 , which show just how much damage unfunded spending commitment can cause . budget responsibility will never be optional under Labour , as it be under the Conservatives . we have bring fiscal responsibility back into the heart of government , and we will hardwire it into law through our fiscal lock . that be what this Bill will achieve . this Bill will draw a line under the economic recklessness of recent year and make it clear that it must never be allow to happen again . budget responsibility underpin our national mission to make people across Britain more secure and well off . for that reason and other , I commend this Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time .