Speaker ' s Statement Order . before we begin today ' s sit , I regret to inform the House of the death of a former Member , Lord Field of Birkenhead . Frank navigate a career as a formidable mp , notably as the Minister task by Tony Blair with " think the unthinkable " on welfare reform . his sharp intellect and independent spirit make he a formidable campaigner against hunger , food poverty and climate change , and for numerous cause relate to the Church of England . in recent year , I have be grateful for his championing of Parliament ' s commitment to stamp out modern slavery from our supply chain . I be in no doubt that his effort have save many life from this shameful criminal activity . he be one of a kind , and he will be sorely miss . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] Oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — Union of Great Britain and Northern Ireland what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to safeguard Northern Ireland ' s place in the Union . before I begin , may I also put on record the Government ' s sincere condolence to the family of Frank Field , who sadly pass away last night ? the Member for Birkenhead for over 40 year , Frank be a titan of this House . he embody its good value of decency , honesty and integrity . I get to know he particularly well in those remarkably calm Brexit year , when I be the junior Government Whip detail to " just get a few friend on the other side of the Chamber to vote in the appropriate manner . " I know the whole House will join I in wish his family well at this difficult time . I would also like to start by welcome the news that the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill will be amend to include Northern Ireland . I thank the Minister of State , Department for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) for all the productive meeting and discussion he have have with the First Minister , the Deputy First Minister and Justice Ministers in Northern Ireland . to answer the question ask by the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) , the Government will never be neutral when it come to express our support for the Union and Northern Ireland ' s place in it . it be clear that the Union be go from strength to strength . we be committed to far strengthen and safeguard the Union through the implementation of the Windsor framework and our delivery of the " safeguard the Union " commitment . Northern Ireland now have the good of both world . it have a stable Northern Ireland Executive , back by the support and strength of the UK Government . Northern Ireland ' s peaceful place in the UK be secure by the Belfast / Good Friday agreement and the principle of consent set within it . I regularly speak to my Cabinet colleague about their and their Departments ' role in safeguard Northern Ireland ' s interest in the Union . I vote for the Windsor framework because the Prime Minister say it remove the irish sea border , yet £ 192 million be budget to be spend on instal border post for the non - existent irish border . will the Secretary of State please advise the House on the number of check on people and good travel through Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? have those check increase or decrease since the introduction of the Windsor framework ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . it really do depend . even in the Northern Ireland Protocol Bill , there be provision for a red lane for good go into Northern Ireland that might flow into the Republic of Ireland . the answer do rather depend on whether the number he have look at be for check in the red lane or the green lane , or for check under the new internal market scheme . the number rise and fall depend on a whole host of factor . when trade increase , as it be do , so will the number of check as a whole , but the percentage will go down , because the check will be mostly on good go through the red lane . we will soon get to the point promise in the Command Paper of there be no check when good move within the United Kingdom internal market system , save those conduct by UK authority as part of a risk - base or intelligence - lead approach to tackle criminality , abuse of the scheme , smuggling or disease risk . that will ensure the smooth flow of good within the UK internal market . I call the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . a vital part of secure Northern Ireland ' s place in the Union be the share prosperity fund , which be about level up and make sure that Northern Ireland have its fair share . funding be due to end next year , in March 2025 . what clarification can the Secretary of State give to community , voluntary and other group that need to plan ahead , and whose funding face a cliff edge if they do not have assurance soon ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend the Chairman of the Select Committee . I be wary of give too many assurance , because we be talk about a time beyond the next general election , when there will be a new Conservative Government , who will have priority that they will wish to update . we know about the success that the share prosperity fund have have in Northern Ireland . I have visit project that it have fund . I would like to think that it will continue strongly across the next spending review period . on behalf of my colleague , may I extend our deep sympathy to the family of Frank Field ? he and I share four year in the House , and I always find he to be a very warm and engaging colleague — someone who have time for young parliamentarian like I , and who believe very much in this place and our country . may I also thank the Secretary of State and the Minister of State , Department for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , for the inclusion of Northern Ireland in the Horizon scandal Bill ? that be incredibly important . as a Unionist , I believe in this country and will work every day to strengthen our place in it . we recognise the " safeguard the Union " Command Paper as an important step - stone in maintain and secure our position . the Secretary of State mention the Government ' s commitment to eliminate all routine check in the UK internal market system , and we look forward to his faithful delivery of that . however , while we have see the creation of the East - West Council , we have hear little about the construction of InterTrade UK or the establishment of the independent monitoring panel . may I ask the Secretary of State to update the House on those issue ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question , and look forward to work with he in his new role . I can assure he that his Majesty ' s Government be work apace and will deliver on our Command Paper commitment in full , include our commitment on check . he ask about a range of body and pledge that we have make . just last month we hold the inaugural meeting of the East - West Council , which give Ministers from the United Kingdom Government and the Northern Ireland Executive an opportunity to come together to discuss the main priority of the council ' s work programme . we be committed to strengthen and safeguard the Union through our implementation of that programme , and we be committed to safeguard the UK internal market by establish new body such as InterTrade UK , which will promote and facilitate trade in the United Kingdom . I will respond to the right hon . Gentleman ' s other point when time allow . the Secretary of State will recognise that one of the issue absent from the Windsor framework and subsequent agreement be the conclusion of an arrangement for veterinary medicine . he will know how important agriculture be to the Northern Ireland economy , and he will also know that Northern Ireland produce 10 time as much food as we need , to the benefit of our near neighbour . the establishment of the veterinary medicine working group , with the help of the Minister of State and my hon . friend the Member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) , have be extremely positive , but there be a cliff edge towards the end of next year . we need a successful conclusion to the issue , and I would be grateful if the Secretary of State could inform the House that that will happen . this matter be very important to the Government and for Northern Ireland . the Government ' s priority be to secure a long - term sustainable solution on veterinary medicine , and we wish to pursue such a solution through discussion with the European Union , and to prepare safeguard for all scenario . as the right hon . Gentleman say , we have set up a veterinary medicine working group to advise the Government on solution , and we be grateful for the expertise of Members who be join that group . it have meet twice , and aim to report in a timely manner in June . in the meantime , we have put in place a grace period arrangement until the end of 2025 , which support continuity of supply in Northern Ireland . however , the right hon . Gentleman be right to emphasise the importance of this matter , and we be work hard on it . gross Domestic product : Northern Ireland what step he be take to help increase gdp in Northern Ireland . the UK Government be commit to the long - term economic growth of Northern Ireland , and be work closely with the executive and business to demonstrate what a fantastic place it be to live , work and invest in . for instance , we have deliver the Northern Ireland investment summit ; we be commit to level up Northern Ireland ' s economy , with £ 617 million be spend on four city and growth deal ; we be implement key deliverable in the " safeguard the Union " Command Paper ; and we continue to promote Northern Ireland ' s unique institutional arrangement . with the executive restore and enjoy a financial package of more than £ 3 billion , do the Minister agree that Northern Ireland business be now in position for an era of transformational success ? absolutely , and I be grateful to my hon . friend for highlight that , but funding be , of course , only one part of the solution . the transformation of public service be vital , but achieve that will require innovative strategic thinking as well as some revenue raising , and the Government stand ready to assist the Northern Ireland Executive with formal structure to help they achieve those end . I thank the Minister for his answer . we have a massively skilled workforce in Northern Ireland , as everyone here know , include the Minister . however , in order to increase investment , we must create more skilled job and employ more people in the aerospace sector . what discussion have the Minister have with Cabinet colleague about secure more job in our aerospace community in Northern Ireland ? we can do more ; we just need a bit more help . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . I have visit Spirit AeroSystems , as well as other related company , and there be a terrific pool of talent and skill in Northern Ireland . we work with the Department for Business and Trade to ensure that the same advantage be available to people and business in Northern Ireland as across the rest of the UK . I sense that brevity require that I do not elaborate on DBT ' s full offer , but it be certainly there . I will write to he to set out the detail . natural Environment : Northern Ireland if he will hold discussion with the Northern Ireland Executive on the long - term sustainability of Northern Ireland ' s natural environment . the UK Government regularly engage with the recently restore Northern Ireland Executive on a range of issue , and we will continue to work together for the benefit of Northern Ireland . only yesterday , I meet Minister Muir , who be responsible for agriculture , environment and rural affair , to discuss the implication of the Windsor framework , and to work through how I can help he to succeed across his full spectrum of responsibility . I thank the Minister for his positive response . he will be aware of the ecological disaster at Lough Neagh , which supply 40 % of Northern Ireland ' s drinking water . it be partly cause by the run - off of agricultural fertiliser , climate change and the spread of the invasive zebra mussel , but have be exacerbate by sewage dumping . can he say a bit more about this issue ? in the past , I have find that his Department and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have not be willing to work with Stormont to address environmental issue in Northern Ireland . what can he do to address they ? I have stand on the shore of Lough Neagh and be conscious of the condition of that enormous body of water , which be beautiful . the reality be that the responsibility for it be devolve , and we do not have an executive for a period . we be absolutely delighted that it be back and be carry forward in a constructive spirit . as I say , I will continue to work with Minister Muir . I do not want to tread on his toe , but we will put ourselves at his disposal to offer whatever help we reasonably can . he be a Minister of great dedication and energy , and I look forward to he succeed on this urgent matter . do my right hon . friend agree that Frank Field leave an immense legacy in the field of pension ? he start off as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on the Maxwell pensioner problem , and be then an inspired Minister of State . he be subsequently involve in all the great debate we have on pension . we will miss he . what impact do the Minister think that nature - base solution to climate change could have on the sort of problem in Northern Ireland that we have be discuss ? I be most grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend for his question , and I agree with he on the pension point . on nature - base solution , I would love to have that conversation with he , perhaps in the Tea Room . it be not my specialist area of expertise , and I be confident that Minister Muir would be interested to hear my right hon . and learn Friend ' s idea . if he wish to share they with I , I will gladly pass they on . devolve institution : Northern Ireland what recent assessment he have make of the impact of the restoration of devolved Government on Northern Ireland . what assessment he have make of the impact of the restoration of the Northern Ireland Assembly on Northern Ireland . I be sure that my hon . friend will welcome the fact that , once again , Northern Ireland have local politician take decision in a local Assembly that be accountable to local people . with a funding package worth over £ 3 billion , the Executive be take forward the vital work of public service transformation and deliver sustainable finance , and be ensure well outcome for the people of Northern Ireland in their daily life . the impact of all this have be unbelievably positive . the commitment that this Government and my right hon . friend have show in push for the restoration of the Northern Ireland Executive be clearly demonstrate in the £ 3 . 3 billion for transform public service , but what help be the home civil service provide to their colleague in Northern Ireland to make sure that people there have the modern and efficient public service that they deserve , and how will that benefit all four nation ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I agree that there be a fantastic opportunity , which we be try to take , for the UK Government to collaborate with and support the Northern Ireland Executive in transform public service . the UK Government have high hope that Ministers in the Executive will move quickly to deliver on their commitment to set up a transformation board , and we be excited to work with Northern Ireland Ministers to produce plan that will deliver transformation for Northern Ireland . indeed , I meet the First Minister and Deputy First Minister last week ; we talk about this work and how we can further it in the very short term . do the Secretary of State agree that the restoration of the Northern Ireland Assembly provide the stability for further private investment in Northern Ireland ? this be a massive opportunity ; it be the miss piece in the puzzle , and could make a huge difference . how do he intend to capitalise on this ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the restoration of devolved government not only provide certainty and stability for business but allow we to harness our combine energy and expertise to make Northern Ireland a fantastic place to live , work and invest . my right hon . friend the Minister of State have remind the House of the success of the Northern Ireland investment summit last September , which welcome 180 business investor from around the world , and of our £ 617 million investment in Northern Ireland ' s four city and growth deal . recently I visit Washington DC with the First Minister and Deputy First Minister , and it be fair to say that the US business community be now well aware of the amazing opportunity in Northern Ireland and be look at they hungrily . the return of devolution have to be build on , particularly as there be still some issue to be resolve . while some in Northern Ireland concentrate on complain about the outstanding problem , there be those of we who be committed to resolve they . the Secretary of State be in a well position than most to help to resolve they . will he recommit today to our see further move in the come week in the direction of resolve all the outstanding issue ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his recent honour for his many year of elect public service in this place and to his constituent . yes , he absolutely can have that commitment from I . I be committed to deliver at great pace on all the pledge we make in the Command Paper , and I be absolutely committed to deliver the good outcome for everyone across Northern Ireland , because that be what Northern Ireland deserve . of course the restoration of devolved government in Northern Ireland be very welcome . the Minister will be aware that polling evidence have show a big growth since the Good Friday agreement in the number of people who identify as Northern Irish , as distinct from irish or british . what implication do that have for the way that devolve government conduct itself , go forward ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question , because there be a genuinely interesting point about the growth in the number of people who live in Northern Ireland who declare themselves to be northern Irish . I would like to think that it be reflect in the way that the First Minister and the Deputy First Minister go about their business . they be work together in a respectful and positive way , respectful of each other ' s community , and want the good for the place they represent . I believe that signify a healthy development for the future of Northern Ireland politic . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you , Mr . Speaker , for your eloquent tribute to Frank Field . he be a brave and a generous man . we look forward to work with the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) in his new position . the UK ' s successful bid to host the 2028 Euros with Ireland be a fantastic opportunity for Northern Ireland , but with just three year leave to build the Casement Park stadium , the Executive have yet to invite tender . in May last year , the Secretary of State be ask who would provide the money , and he reply : " all partner . I guarantee it . " give that the clock be tick , how and when do the right hon . Gentleman intend , with other , to honour that guarantee , so that the stadium get build on time ? the right hon . Gentleman know that he be ask that question of someone who have be a football referee for the last 43 year , and who be rather passionate about the game . I really want to see these Euro game play at Casement Park , and I have make that clear , but the late cost that I have see be significantly high than the one I see a year ago , and any taxpayer contribution to the Casement Park project will need to be make on a value - for - money basis . I have also say many time that there be no blank cheque here , especially when there be no contractor appoint yet . we do not want to artificially inflate a price . the Northern Ireland Executive will also need to decide on whether and how they will underwrite any future increase in cost . as I say back then , all partner be work together to try to work out what the number be , and how we can deliver on it . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for that reply . one other challenge that the institution face be deal with the continue legacy of the trouble . seven day from now , all civil case and inquest relate to the trouble will come to an end under the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 , which be widely oppose in Northern Ireland . do the right hon . Gentleman think that confidence in the new independent commission will be help or hinder by the fact that it have recently bring three separate legal challenge to the disclosure by coroner of information to family about what happen to their love one — information that they have be deny for so many year ? the right hon . Gentleman conflate two issue . first , there be the ongoing element of how we deal with public interest immunity and the " neither confirm nor deny " policy in court case in Northern Ireland , and indeed across the United Kingdom . secondly , there be the question about the new commission we be set up to deal with legacy . I believe that even those with civil case will be able to use the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery in good faith when it open its door on 1 May . only this month , the former co - chair of the Consultative Group on the Past , Denis Bradley , say that he think the people involve with the ICRIR " be very good people , I have a lot of regard for they … and if people decide it offer they something , well then , I will be very reluctant to make too many strong judgment around it . because " — this be the problem that the UK Government be try to solve — " we have create a swamp around legacy , a complete swamp . anything that help some people to get out of that swamp , I win ' t be too critical . " I call the SNP spokesperson . I add my party ' s tribute to Frank Field . we send our condolence to his friend and family . he be Birkenhead ' s MP for 40 year , and he be a very faithful servant not only to his constituent but to this place . the return of devolved government to Northern Ireland have be rightly welcome across this House . will the Secretary of State reaffirm his government ' s commitment to the principle of consent , not just in Northern Ireland but in Scotland and Wales ? the people of those place should be able to choose the form of government well suit to their need , whether that happen to be inside or outside the United Kingdom . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s welcome of the restore institution . I be also a great respecter of referendum result , and I believe we have one in Scotland . that be probably enough say . integrated Education : Northern Ireland what recent discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on the expansion of integrated education in Northern Ireland . the Government remain committed to support integrate education in Northern Ireland and have already make fund available to support more school than ever to convert to integrated status . I and my noble Friend Lord Caine look forward to engage with the new Education Minister , Paul Givan , to make progress on this important issue . I travel with colleague to Northern Ireland two week ago , and we visit Forge Integrated Primary School and meet lot of very fine child . in 2015 , £ 150 million of Fresh Start funding be earmark for integrated education in Northern Ireland . what do the Minister say to those school that be expect this funding but have find that it be no long guarantee ? the House may not know that only 7 % of schoolchildren in Northern Ireland can be say to be attend an integrated school , which we would like to see change . the period over which Fresh Start funding be release would have end at the end of March 2025 , so we have repurpose £ 150 million of that funding to provide additional flexibility to the Northern Ireland Executive in respect of that funding stream and school . we be determined to see more parent give the opportunity to choose integrated education for their child as a vital part of the process of reconciliation . I , for one , be especially committed to it as someone who proudly attend a baptist church , where for many year I worship with a roman catholic lady and have no idea . we should help Northern Ireland move to a point where denomination be a small matter and where people move forward together . an important item in the in - tray of the newly re - form Executive be early year education and childcare . thank to the action of this Government , we now have more generous entitlement to free childcare in England and Northern Ireland . will he discuss with the Executive how Northern Ireland might be level up on childcare , include by use revenue - raise measure ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this issue and I be grateful to she for put it on the agenda . certainly we will engage with the Executive on this point . she be right to mention revenue raising . it be a fact that the Executive need to both transform public service and improve revenue raising , so that everything in Northern Ireland can be deliver on a sustainable basis . I call the shadow Minister . I also recently visit the Forge Integrated Primary School in Belfast . I see their much - need and develop plan to replace their portacabin with building , answer their need for extra capacity . the school be disappoint that the plan have be shelve , along with project at nine other integrate school . education be devolve , but money have be earmark for such project by the UK Government under the 2015 " Fresh Start " agreement . do the Secretary of State understand why teacher , pupil and parent be so disappointed that those plan have be shelve ? do he have any plan to restore they ? I hear the hon . Lady . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State and I understand people ' s concern and we too have visit school ; I certainly have and I think my right hon . friend have too . indicate assent . I repeat that we have repurpose the money so that it can endure and be available to the Executive to be use for purpose as they decide . if we have not repurpose it , the money would have expire at the end of March next year . I be proud that we have take the step necessary , with the Treasury , to enable that money to continue to be available to the Executive . it be for they to decide how to spend it , but we continue to be fully commit to integrated education . Programme for Government : Northern Ireland what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on the development of a programme for government . I meet the First Minister and the Deputy First Minister last week . we have a constructive discussion about the Executive ' s priority . the public ' s relief at the restoration of the Assembly have give way to frustration at the lack of pace of delivery by the Executive . after a two - year void , they be say they do not want to be hurry to deliver for the people of Northern Ireland . pressed healthcare staff , people wait for special educational need service , and those watch Lough Neagh face another summer of algal bloom be very much in a hurry for action . Northern Ireland urgently need a delivery plan , a programme for Government and a budget . yes , resource be a part of that , so will the Minister update we on any negotiation on the fiscal framework ? will he impress on the Executive the need for urgent action , not just warm word ? one thing that I pick up from the First Minister and the Deputy First Minister last week be that they too want to act in all the way the hon . Lady say . their priority include develop a programme for government that will enable they to take forward the vital work of public service transformation . they be only 12 week in , and I look forward to good result in the short , medium and long term . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I wish to welcome our special guest , who be observe our proceeding today , his Excellency Johari Abdul , Speaker of the House of Representatives of Malaysia . your Excellency , you be most welcome . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 24 April . Mr Speaker , I have be ask to reply . I know that member across the House will wish to join I in offer condolence to the family and friend of Lord Frank Field . he be an outstanding parliamentarian who work tirelessly to make society a well place . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister be in Berlin . he have announce the big strengthening of our defence in a generation . I be sure that member will want to join I in wish the jewish community a happy Passover , a celebration of freedom . of course , we remember the empty chair of those hostage still be hold captive in Gaza and call for their immediate release . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , I shall have further such meeting later today . I , too , wish to pass on my thought and prayer to Lord Field ' s family , friend and colleague and particularly to student and teacher at the Birches Head Academy in Stoke - on - Trent who be part of the Frank Field Education Trust . since be elect in 2019 , I have : help to reopen Tunstall Town Hall with a new library and family hub ; secure funding for additional CCTV , new alley gate and well lighting in Tunstall to ensure that our street be safe ; and help to breathe new life into Tunstall ' s old library and bath , thank to this Government ' s levelling - up fund of £ 56 million to Stoke - on - Trent . sadly , Labour - lead Stoke - on - Trent City Council seek to undermine that progress by : introduce a brand new tax on resident to have their garden waste collect ; refuse to take planning enforcement against rogue and absent landlord who plague Tunstall High Street ; and increase crime and antisocial behaviour by dump undesirable people in the centre of Tunstall . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that Stoke - on - Trent labour — [ interruption . ] order . it be normally Mr Gullis who be loud . please , let I hear he . this just go to show the disdain that the Labour party have for Stoke - on - Trent . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that it be time for Stoke - on - Trent Labour to axe the garden tax , to take the fight to lousy landlord — order . there be a question to be ask and a time in which we ask it . I suggest that the hon . member put in for an Adjournment debate . I be sure that he have the answer . Mr Speaker , there be not much that I can add to that . [ laughter . ] the hon . Member have , as ever , prove what an excellent campaigner he be for his constituent . he highlight the same problem with Labour council across the country , raise taxis and let service fall into disrepair . of course he be totally right to be hold rogue landlord to account . I call the deputy Leader of the Opposition . first , may I share the Deputy Prime Minister ' s comment regard our jewish community and wish they a happy Passover ? I wish to acknowledge the loss of David Marquand and Baroness Massey , both of whom make historic contribution in Parliament , politic and wide life . I also send my condolence , follow today ' s news , to the family of Lord Frank Field , who be a good friend of mine and a colleague . he be a tireless campaigner against poverty and a champion for his constituent . Mr Speaker , I know that the conservative party be desperate to talk about my living arrangement , but the public want to know what this government will do about theirs . Natalie from Brighton have be serve with two no - fault eviction notice in 18 month . she join nearly a million family at risk of homelessness due to the Deputy Prime Minister ' s failure to ban this cruel practice . instead of obsess over my house , when will he get a grip and show the same obsession with end no - fault eviction ? to begin with , it be a pleasure to have another exchange with the right hon . Lady in this House — our fifth in 12 month . any more of these and she will be claim it as her principal residence . on the issue of no - fault eviction , it may have escape the right hon . Lady ' s attention , but we will be vote on exactly that matter later today . this be the Conservative Government take action . the Deputy Prime Minister clearly think that he could spend all week obsess over my live arrangement and do not even bother to read up on his own government ' s Bill this afternoon . the reality be that he cave in to vested interest on his Back Benches and delay justice for people like Natalie . this week , the Housing Minister say that there be no solid date for ban no - fault eviction . the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities now say that it will not happen before an election . if the Deputy Prime Minister can give we a date , will he name it now ? I can name the date for the right hon . Lady : today . it be today that the House will vote on it , and I be confident that , in line with our manifesto , we will deliver on that commitment . the Deputy Prime Minister clearly have not be look up his own Government Bills . let I turn to another Tory housing failure . leasehold be a rip off and a con , but the Government ' s propose ban on new leasehold apply only to house . the majority of leasehold be in flat . what be the point of a ban on new leasehold if it will not apply to flat ? again , the right hon . Lady be talk about legislation introduce by this government that the Labour party totally fail to introduce in its entire time in office . it be no surprise , because it be this Government who have bring social housing waiting list down by nearly half a million , and deliver more affordable home in the last 12 year than Labour deliver when it be in office . of course , all this can only be pay for by ensure that we have a strong economy . her policy to repeal every single conservative trade union law in the first 100 day would open the door to french - style wildcat strike , sweep away the reform that make this country great . we all know , though , the one reform by Margaret Thatcher that the right hon . Lady would not abolish : the right to buy your council house . I be expect a little bit well from the Deputy Prime Minister . he seem to be a bit worn out . maybe it be the 3 am call from the " bad man " that have be keep he up at night . he talk about strike and the union . we have have more strike under this Government ' s watch than at any time before . once again , he have not read his own Bill . their ban on leasehold will not apply to the majority of people . it be like ban non - dom but exempt Tory Prime Ministers . he speak about affordable home . family be trap in temporary accommodation and stick on waiting list , and in the west midland the Conservative Mayor have use his multi - million pound housing budget to build just 46 social home in eight year . that be almost as many as in the Chancellor ' s property portfolio . the british people know that the conservative party will not build the home that this country need , so when will they get a chance to vote for a Government who will ? I be surprised that the right hon . Lady raise the west midland when Labour - control Birmingham have virtually bankrupt the council and be hike up council tax by 21 % , while in the meantime — I be sure that this would please she — continue to hand out £ 1 . 8 million to the trade union . by contrast , Andy Street , our brilliant Mayor of the wide west midland , have deliver £ 6 . 1 billion of investment to improve transport . there you have it : the contrast between the Conservative party and the Labour party , and the usual political opportunism from she , fail to ask about the issue that really matter . if you want more bin collection , more pothole fill , low debt and low council tax , vote conservative , because whether it be Ben Houchen in the Tees Valley or Andy Street in the west midland , it be only the Conservative Mayors who deliver more for less . it be pretty revealing that the Deputy Prime Minister think that housing be not an issue for the british people ; I think it really be . People in glass house should not throw stone , because in Birmingham and across the whole country , council be face black hole because of his Government ' s austerity programme . I warn the Deputy Prime Minister that Tory council have also face section 114 notice , and Birmingham City Council have have over £ 1 billion take from its budget — from some of the poor people . More than 16 , 000 family face lose their home after the Tory party ' s mini - Budget , and mortgage bill continue to soar . meanwhile , the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , parade around the world in a twisted victory lap promote her new book , say that the mini - Budget be her proud moment . since she will not apologise to those family lose their home , will he ? what the Prime Minister have do since he have take office , with the Chancellor , be to restore stability to our economy , with inflation halve and more , down to 3 % . as a result of that , in an increasingly dangerous world , the Prime Minister be able to announce his plan for the big strengthening of defence spending in a generation . but it should come as no surprise that the Labour party refuse to say whether it back that , because this come from the right hon . Lady who vote to scrap Trident and to install in Downing Street someone who want to change the Army into a peace corps . there you have it . the right hon . Gentleman talk about defence . we all want to see 2 . 5 % ; the difference be that we have not cut the Army to its small size since Napoleon . never mind some secretive deep state , it be the state of the Tory party that be the problem . the Tories be in a deep state of sewage . after 14 year they have fail renter , they have fail leaseholder and they have fail mortgage holder . I read with interest that the right hon . Gentleman have be urge his neighbour in no . 10 to call an election , because he be worried they might get wipe out . have he finally realise that when he stab Boris Johnson in the back to get his mate into no . 10 , he be ditch their big election winner for a pint - sized loser ? I think the whole House will have hear , despite all the bluster from the right hon . Lady , not a single word on whether she would actually back our plan to invest in our armed force . no plan , in a dangerous world . of course , as ever , the deputy Labour leader be always look to attack other ' failure , but never one to take responsibility for her own . she once say , " you shouldn ' t be wait for the police to bang on your door . if you do it , then you shouldn ' t be do your job . " the right hon . landlady should forget her tax advice and follow her own advice . level up , which my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent North ( Jonathan Gullis ) mention early , be absolutely on fire in the Calder Valley , with £ 196 . 5 million for hospital reconfiguration , £ 150 million for flood defence , no few than 11 school be remodelled or rebuild as we speak , £ 45 million for the regeneration of three town centre and Elland get a new railway station . do my right hon . friend agree that the naysayer around level up need look no far than the Calder Valley to see the great achievement of this Government ? my right hon . friend be right ; it be not just in the Calder Valley , but in community up and down the country . the Government be invest billion in infrastructure across the United Kingdom , create job and opportunity in every region . I know that he have be a staunch advocate for the Calder Valley , which be a fantastic example of that in action . I call the deputy leader of the Scottish National party . I join in wish the jewish community a happy Passover and send my condolence to the family and love one of Frank Field . two year ago , when mass grave be discover in Ukraine , this House unite in condemnation and rightly treat those grave as evidence of war crime , which Russia must be make to answer for . yesterday , palestinian official uncover two mass grave outside the bomb hospital in Gaza . those grave also constitute a war crime , do they not ? of course , we would expect the democratic Government of Israel to investigate any allegation of misconduct . that be exactly what they be do , and it be exactly what the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister urge they to do . however , I find it quite extraordinary that the hon . Lady seek to draw parallel between the legitimate war of self - defence of Israel and the conduct of Russia . three hundred body , include of the elderly and the injure , some of which have be strip naked and mutilate , with their hand tie behind their back . the UK ' s own arm policy state that if there be even a risk that war crime may be take place , that be reason enough to halt the sale of arm . give all that we know , why be the Prime Minister yet to do so ? we continue to urge the israeli Government to investigate any allegation of misconduct . the difference though be that we can trust the israeli Government — a democratically elect government — to properly investigate those thing . of course , we keep the advice under review . the Foreign Secretary have recently make it clear that he have conduct a determination and have not change his advice regard export licence , and I think that be the correct decision . the good people of Lincoln , who all declare their taxis and pay tax on profit when sell their second home , overwhelmingly want Lincoln Christmas market to be bring back after the labour - run city council cruelly close it last year . the Labour city council have refuse to do what the people of Lincoln want . what message do the Deputy Prime Minister send to the voter of Lincoln before next week ' s local election ? I be afraid that what my hon . friend have describe be the Grinch in action . that Christmas market , in the home of Magna Carta , be belove by local resident , but the council have totally ignore their wish and cancel it . it should reverse that decision . on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , I offer our condolence to the friend and family of the late Lord Frank Field , and wish a happy Passover to all those in the jewish community . unpaid carer have share heartbreaking story of how they have be hound by the Department for Work and Pensions and tell to pay huge fine for minor infringement of carer ' s allowance earn rule , all because the Government have fail to do anything about a problem that they have know about for year . yesterday , one of the Prime Minister ' s own dementia adviser resign , say that the Government ' s treatment of those unpaid carer be " beyond the pale . " will the Deputy Prime Minister apologise to all unpaid carer who have be fail by his government , and will he commit to a full review of the system ? I pay tribute to all unpaid carer . indeed , I meet some of they over the weekend and know how hard they work . they keep our society function through their commitment to we . that be why we have uprate the benefit by £ 81 . 90 a week , and have increase the carer ' s allowance by almost £ 1 , 500 since 2010 . in respect of allegation of overpayment , of course appropriate discretion should be show , but if there have be erroneous overpayment , it be right , on behalf of the taxpayer , to be able to recuperate they . however , we will work with anyone who be struggle with those repayment to negotiate sustainable and affordable repayment plan . my island constituency of Ynys M ô n be access via two bridge : the Menai suspension bridge and the Britannia bridge . Holyhead be the second busy port in the UK , but bridge repair and the weather can result in long traffic queue . to make the most of our Anglesey freeport and new nuclear at Wylfa , a third crossing be vital . last year , the Welsh Labour Government scrap plan for all new road project , include our third bridge . will the Deputy Prime Minister use his influence to ensure that north Wales be not ignore by Cardiff , and that we get that third bridge ? I know and understand the frustration across Wales , particularly in my hon . friend ' s constituency , about this state of affair . the Welsh Government have not prioritise build new road . they be damage growth potential in place such as Anglesey , and be spend £ 100 million on new politician . we will work with she to ensure that we resolve the matter . the conservative candidate for London Mayor have promote Islamophobic trope online , endorse the belief of Enoch Powell and claim that the black community have a problem with crime . in the week when we mark the 31st anniversary of the murder of Stephen Lawrence , do the Deputy Prime Minister really endorse those view ? I think the hon . Lady know that she do not correctly represent the view of the candidate . I find it extraordinary that she have raise the issue of crime , because while labour ' s London Mayor have increase the precept by over 70 % , record crime in London have increase by 20 % . that be the record of the Labour London Mayor — no wonder people will be vote against he . I note that I be the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on fishery , and thank the Government for the recent pollack catch compensation . on 12 May , we will see the first ever national fishing remembrance day . I will be mark the occasion by lay a wreath at a service hold at Looe quayside by the memorial plaque that have the name of my late husband and , unfortunately , other on it . will the Deputy Prime Minister mark the occasion by remember those who have die bring this important food source to our table , and will he ask the Prime Minister to do so ? I know how important this matter be to my hon . friend — I be sure she will be remember her late husband Neil on that day . it be important that we all recognise the sacrifice make by fisherman and woman to bring food to our table , and I know that my colleague the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Sir Mark Spencer ) , will be visit Grimsby on that day . in today ' s Boro chairman Steve Gibson describe the Mayor of Tees Valley as have give away the future of the region ' s child . he be refer to the 40 % of Teesworks , with a forecast worth of £ 500 million , gift by Lord Houchen in a deal to two local business mate . Mr Gibson , who help establish the local development corporation , describe that deal as " unforgiveable " . will the Government finally admit that Lord Houchen and the Conservatives have sell Teesside taxpayer down the river ? the hon . Gentleman talk about Teesside taxpayer , but Ben Houchen have never impose a mayoral precept in Tees Valley , full stop . at the same time , he have save Teesside airport and secure a new freeport for Teesside — no wonder people will be vote for he again . have my right hon . Friend see the video that be do the round of the theft in a shop in my constituency , Boots the chemist on Station Road ? in the space of eight minute , two threaten individual rob thousand of pound out of that shop , and they be not alone : it be happen again and again . in fact , one of my team go out and photograph they leave brazenly , not care , and even spit at the police . will my right hon . friend please now say to the Home Secretary , and through he to the police , that this be not a petty crime ? this be a threat of violence and massive robbery , and it should be a priority for the police . we always talk about more police ; surely what we should be ask for be more effective policing that get those criminal off the street . my right hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight this issue : often , the allegedly low - level crime be the one that have the big impact on community . I know that my right hon . friend the Home Secretary have be very clear on that point , and I will make it to he again . that be also why we be roll out a range of crime prevention measure through the safe street fund ; it be why we be improve CCTV and street lighting ; and it be why we introduce the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 to give the police great power to deliver tough sentence for more serious offender . early , the Deputy Prime Minister say that when the Prime Minister and the Chancellor take office , they restore stability to the UK economy . who do he think cause the instability ? Labour Members might want to forget it , but I remember the day the Conservatives come into office in 2010 . what be the note leave on the desk of the Chief Secretary to the Treasury ? " there be no money leave . " that be the challenge that we have address through the Prime Minister and Chancellor successively . labour ' s mayoral candidate in the West Midlands talk about housing , but make no commitment to protect our precious green belt . he talk about transport , but he fail to commit to reopen Aldridge train station . he commit to save police station such as Aldridge ; then , when the Labour police and crime commissioner say he would close they , he change his mind and agree to that . so we be leave wonder in my constituency what he stand for . do my right hon . friend agree with I that only Mayor Andy Street have a plan and a track record to be trust to deliver for the West midland ? as ever , my right hon . friend be absolutely correct to highlight the record of Labour ' s police and crime commissioner , and West Midlands police have actually be put in special measure on Simon Foster ' s watch . when it come to the green belt , we have all see the new wheeze from the Labour party — redesignate green belt " grey belt " and concrete all over it . well , the Conservatives will not allow that to happen , and people up and down the country will vote conservative to stop that happen . conservative Ministers like to blame strike and the pandemic for the appalling waiting time in the NHS . the Blackpool Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust have not hit its target for see patient in A & E within four hour since 2015 — before the strike and before the pandemic , but five year after the Conservatives come to office . so who do the Deputy Prime Minister blame for that ? Labour member like to pretend the pandemic do not happen , and they like — [ interruption . ] that be the cause of the big pressure on the NHS . they complain about NHS performance while back strike by doctor , who unreasonably want a 35 % pay rise . despite all of those pressure , actually A & E performance have improve in the past month . the labour leader of the almost bankrupt Hastings Borough Council and several other Labour councillor resign from the Labour party cite that the national Labour party have become overly authoritarian , in a " dereliction of local democracy " , and have " lose its moral compass " and be suffocate local voice because its only objective be power for power ' s sake . would the Deputy Prime Minister agree that vote for conservative candidate in upcoming election will ensure local voter be hear , local democracy be uphold and well service be deliver ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the really serious concern about labour councillor in Hastings . one former Labour councillor say that Labour be no long provide " the policy , the support , or the focus on local government " . I could not have put it well myself . with thousand of steelworker ' job on the line , the likelihood of industrial action and report of a deal for India to be exempt from carbon taxis , will this Government now back the detailed , serious and robust multi - union proposal as the only way to keep primary steel making in the UK ? the Government will engage with any proposal that have be bring forward , as we always do , but it be actually the case that we have already provide over £ 700 million in energy cost relief to the steel sector in the past 10 year . it be also the case that , even in the past year , the Government spend £ 97 million more on UK - make steel for major public project . so we be continue to work with the steel industry , but we have already provide tremendous support . I very much associate myself with the remark of my right hon . friend regard Lord Frank Field , who be a good man . I very much welcome the Government ' s firm commitment to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % by 2030 . it be something that will send the right message to our ally and potential adversary alike , and it be something on which the 1922 defence committee have be campaign for a little while . however , would my right hon . friend do what he can to ensure that some of that increase money be spend on additional recruitment — include , if necessary , increase wage sufficiently — to ensure that the Navy can manage ship , the Air Force can maintain its aircraft and the Army can dominate ground ? I know what a staunch advocate my hon . friend be for the armed force and for fund the armed force . all of we can take great pride that we be put the resource in to meet the challenge that the nation be likely to face over the next five year . we will be work through the allocation of that , but it be already the case that in January we have the large ever number of application in recent year to join the armed force , so we be make progress on that . my constituent Lisa care for her mother . she work part - time at WHSmith and be sure to keep the Department for Work and Pensions inform so that she would not be overpay carer ' s allowance . however , because of a DWP blunder , she now face a bill for £ 4 , 000 . the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology care for her career . she work part - time as a woke detector . however , when she blunder , call a top scientist a Hamas supporter , the bill — ten of thousand of pound in cost and damage — be pick up by taxpayer like Lisa . why ? it be this Government who have uprated benefit for carer , with almost £ 1 , 500 more . I think it be the case that the hon . Lady ' s constituent , my constituent and people up and down the country would expect the Government to seek to recover overpay sum . we need to do that in a compassionate way , and if people be struggle to make repayment , the DWP will engage to ensure that they have a sustainable and affordable way to make those repayment . may I associate myself with the tribute and condolence pay to the late great Frank Field ? one of his last achievement in the world of education be the holiday activity and food fund , which this Government can take great pride in have fund . may I urge my right hon . friend to use his good office across Government to ensure that we secure a multi - year settlement for the continuance of that vital work ? I know what an important piece of work this be , and I know my hon . friend ' s commitment to campaign for it . we have already provide substantial sum , and I be sure we will continue to do so . as the chair of the scottish arm of Feeding Britain , may I thank you , Mr Speaker , and those on the front Benches for their tribute to the great Frank Field ? he chair an all - party parliamentary inquiry 10 year ago on food poverty , and food bank use have increase relentlessly since then . will the Government consider , in Frank Field ' s memory , a cross - sector summit with the aim of help community to secure the resource to deliver food security programme at the necessary scale ? I join the hon . gentleman in pay tribute to Lord Frank Field ' s campaign . it be the case that over the past couple of year , we have provide more than £ 108 billion - worth of support with the cost of living , include extra cost of live payment of £ 900 last year . the effect of all that be that 1 . 1 million few people be live in absolute poverty than when the Conservatives come to office . last week we have the Finance Bill , and in it I notice a reduction in capital gain tax from 28 % to 24 % on residential property to try to turbo - boost the residential market . will that apply retrospectively , so that hypothetically , if a Labour Front Bencher owe capital gain tax , they would benefit from this conservative tax cut ? I have always believe in have low taxis that everyone pay . this week mark the fifth Lesbian Visibility Week , found by my good friend and publisher of magazine , Linda Riley . it come at a time when LGBTQIA woman be be let down by this government , and nowhere more so than in their failure to remove the financial burden that same - sex couple face when access IVF . my constituent Holly and Leanne , like so many other , have be price out of have a family , so will the Deputy Prime Minister commit to finally end this gay tax for same - sex couple who want to start a family ? I would dispute the hon . Lady ' s characterisation of the Government ' s record in this area : it be this Government who introduce marriage for same - sex couple and pass the ture law . she raise an important point that I be happy to take up the Health Secretary , but the overall record of this Government be an excellent one . defence spending with permission , Mr Speaker , I shall make a statement update the House on the Government ' s commitment to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % this decade . in my speech at Lancaster House in January , I warn that we be enter a much more dangerous period in the world and I make the case for a national conversation about defence spending . since then , Putin have step up his attack on Ukraine , China be increasingly assertive , and tension have escalate in the middle east culminate in Iran ' s unprecedented attack on Israel 10 day ago conduct in parallel with the proxy Iran have nourish around Israel ' s border in the middle east , include of course the Houthis who continue to hold global trade hostage in the Red sea . since January , the world have become even more dangerous , not less , and we continue to ask more of our courageous and professional armed force . our sailor have serve under constant risk of attack in the Red sea , help to protect international shipping and our own cost of living . we have bolster our Royal Air Force presence in the middle east , enable Typhoon crew to intercept iranian drone and missile recently fire towards Israel . and around 20 , 000 of our personnel from all three of our service , with a huge inventory of naval , air , and land asset , have be active around Europe as part of the large NATO training exercise since the cold war . in short , we increasingly need our armed force , and we increasingly be ask more of they . so yesterday the Prime Minister commit to hit spending 2 . 5 % of gdp for defence by 2030 . it mean we will invest an additional £ 75 billion into defence over the next six year , and that will be fund in full without any increase in either borrowing or debt . this represent the big strengthening of our national defence in a generation and , as the NATO Secretary - General say yesterday , it will ensure the UK remain by far the large european defence spender in NATO , and it mean we be the second big NATO spender overall . it will provide a very significant boost for UK defence science , innovation and manufacturing . it will make our defence industry more resilient and big . and it will mean we be able to restock some of the global supply require in order to continue to ensure that we be both able to provide our own armed force and those in Ukraine and be a competitive export sector . we also recognise the important role defence play in our national resilience by develop a new plan that for the first time bring together the civil and military planning for how we would respond to the most severe risk that our country face . our additional £ 75 billion on defence be also enable we to ramp up that support for Ukraine . member on both side of the House will share the Government ' s concern about the warning President Zelensky have be issue , and his most senior general have confirm that their the ability to match russian force be increasingly difficult . so , as NATO partner , we be look at each other to see that leadership . the UK Government have step forward : we be provide the alliance with the decisive leadership demand in this knife - edge moment of this existential war . this week we have commit an extra £ 500 million of military aid to Ukraine for this year , bring our total package to £ 3 billion . in fact , our total since Putin ' s full - scale invasion be now more than £ 12 . 5 billion , £ 7 . 5 billion of which be in military aid . in addition , we have provide NATO partner with leadership by delve even deep into our own military inventory , to give Ukraine our large package of equipment and support to date . the support announce this week include : million of round of ammunition ; 1 , 600 key munition , include air defence and precision long - range missile ; over 400 armoured , protect and all - terrain vehicle ; support with logistic to support and bolster the frontline ; support to get the F - 16 pilot who have train in the UK into the air as soon as possible ; and a further 60 boat to help Ukraine strengthen its remarkable grip over the Black sea , include offshore raid craft and dive boat . our £ 75 billion defence investment will help Ukraine get back on to the front foot . couple with the reform that we have introduce to make procurement fast and more effective , it will put our defence industrial base on a war footing . it will fire up the UK ' s defence industry with an additional £ 10 billion over the next decade for munition production . that will bring our total spend on munition to about £ 25 billion over the same period . we be deliver for those who serve to guarantee our freedom as well , with over £ 4 billion to be invest in upgrade accommodation to build new living quarter for our personnel over the next decade . we be also work seamlessly with key ally to strengthen our collective deterrence and develop new , innovative capability . just last month , I be in Australia with our australian and US partner to advance our AUKUS programme , which will develop and deliver a range of cut - edge kit in addition to the next generation of nuclear - power submarine . at the end of last year , I be in Japan to advance our global combat air programme , which be the development of the sixth - generation fighter jet with Italy and Japan . just last week I be in Telford to see the first fully british tank for 22 year come off the production line . that be just one strand of our Future soldier programme to make our Army more integrated and much more lethal . of course , defence already support hundred of thousand of job , with real quality to they , in the UK , include over 200 , 000 directly in the industry . our additional £ 75 billion will open up many more opportunity in region up and down the country . this be a turning point in UK defence . we must spend more because defence of the realm be the first duty of every Government . we on the Government side of the House recognise that fact . but while I want to see peace and international order be restore , I be also absolutely convinced that it be hopeful thinking — even complacency — to imagine that we can do that without ensure that we be well protect . the good way of keep a country safe and protect our way of life be deterrence : be prepare ; be clear - eyed about the threat we face ; be clear about our capability ; back UK defence science , technology and innovation ; carry not just a big stick , but the most advanced and capable stick that we can possibly develop , and yes , use our military muscle alongside our ally . our investment in our continuous at - sea nuclear deterrent make would - be adversary think twice . we on the Government side of the House have not come to the conclusion that our nation ' s nuclear deterrent be there because an election be approach ; we have always believe in our nuclear deterrent . this be an additional £ 75 billion boost for our force . in the build - up to the NATO summit in Washington , I will do all I can to get alliance member to follow our lead and bolster their armed force , strengthen their industrial base , invest in innovation , maximise their military deterrence and , most importantly of all , maximise their support for Ukraine . in a more dangerous world , where we face an axis of authoritarian state , 2 . 5 % must become the new baseline for the entire alliance . if we be to deter , lead and defend , that be what be require of we . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for the advance copy of his statement . there be much to welcome in it and more widely today , with the US Congress finally pass the Bill for more military aid to Ukraine and the Prime Minister finally make a multi - year commitment to UK military aid beyond this year . we face a much more dangerous world . british force be in action , defend international shipping in the Red sea , reinforce NATO ally on the russian border and protect we all 24 / 7 . they be respect worldwide for their total professionalism . they require our support from all side of this House . we welcome the new commitment on funding for Ukraine and to build up stockpile , to boost defence export , to prioritise domestic defence production and to set up new strategic headquarters in the MOD — all plan I have argue for in this post . the Secretary of State be right to say that the first duty of any Government be to defend the country and keep its citizen safe . labour will always do what be require and spend what be require on defence . the last time the UK do spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence be in 2010 , under Labour — never match in any one of the 14 Tory year since . two week ago , the Labour leader say that we want a fully fund plan for 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . we share the same ambition as the Government because we must do more to deal with the grow threat . we want it to be fully cost and fully fund , and set out in the Government ' s baseline budget . this 2030 target be not ; it be in a press release . why be the 2030 plan not in last month ' s Budget , or any of the other five Budgets and autumn statement since the Government first promise to spend 2 . 5 % by 2030 , two year ago ? none hit 2 . 5 % ; none reverse the real cut in day - to - day defence spending ; none match labour ' s record in Government . if this 2030 plan have be in a Budget , it would have be independently check , openly cost and fully fund . where be the additional money come from ? how much be come from which other research and development budget ? how much be come from cut how many civil servant , and in which department ? the Government have try this trick before , in the 2015 defence review . minister pledge to cut 30 % of MOD civil servant in order to make their defence spending plan add up . civil servant number do not go down — instead of go down to 41 , 000 , they go up to 63 , 000 . the Secretary of State mention an additional £ 75 billion five time in his statement . over the next six year , the Government ' s official spending plan be base on 0 . 5 % real annual growth in core defence spending . why have he invent his own zero - growth baseline to produce this fake figure , claim an extra £ 75 billion for defence ? the public will judge Ministers by what they do , not what they say . over 14 year , they have hollow out our armed force ; they have cut the Army to its small size since Napoleon ; they have miss their own recruitment target each and every year ; they have allow morale to fall to record low ; and they have waste at least £ 15 billion on mismanage defence procurement . everyone recognise that defence spending must rise to deal with increase threat . the Opposition have no access to classified threat assessment or military advice , so if we be elect to government we will conduct a strategic defence review within our first year to get to grip with the threat we face , the capability we need , the state of the armed force and the resource available when we get to open the book . that be how Labour will manage the requirement for strong national security and the responsibility for sound public finance . the Defence Secretary clearly like labour ' s plan for defence , because so much of they be now government policy . but there be still no Tory plan to reinforce homeland protection with a new strategic review ; to fulfil NATO obligation in full , with a NATO test on our major programme ; to renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve with an independent force commissioner ; and to make ally our strategic strength with a new EU , french or german defence agreement . with threat increase and tension grow , we must make Britain well defend . with Labour , Britain will be well defend . let I start on the area that I agree with . the right hon . Gentleman mention how much we welcome the US Congress put $ 60 billion into the defence of Ukraine . we warmly welcome that . as Churchill be repute to have say , America usually get on and do the right thing when it have exhaust all other alternative . it take a long time , but we have get to the point where that money will go to Ukraine . that be very welcome across the House . the right hon . Gentleman say that he welcome today ' s announcement , but then spend all his time explain — or rather , avoid explain — why Labour be not back 2 . 5 % , which have a schedule , a timescale and figure that have be publish and be in the document produce yesterday and lay in the Library . he say , " judge we by our action , not our word . " we will , because 11 member of the Opposition Front - Bench team vote against Trident . it be no good for he and the Leader of the Opposition to go up to Barrow and to claim that they be all in favour of the nuclear defence , because they stand on a platform with a leader who want to scrap Trident , pull we out of NATO , and turn the army into a peace corps . the Opposition tell we , " judge we on our action . " where be the shadow Foreign Secretary , who vote against Trident ? where be the shadow Deputy Prime Minister and the shadow Communities Secretary , who vote against Trident ? neither be there on the Front Bench . presumably neither be in full agreement with the right hon . Gentleman . when it come to the defence of the realm and defend this country , the conservative party have always believe in our nuclear deterrent . we be upgrade it and make sure it be fit for purpose . neither support the 2 . 5 % , as the House will have note . it be fine for the right hon . gentleman to come to the Dispatch Box and talk about yet another review . if the problem be have defence review , there would be no issue at all . the last thing this country and armed force require be yet another review — delay , disruption and obfuscation . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . my right hon . friend be right to say that we be continually ask more of our armed force , as the Defence Committee ' s recent report make clear . in that context , I greatly welcome the announcement and the increase investment . we want it to unleash a triple whammy in which our industrial partner also seize the opportunity to invest heavily in capital equipment and R & D , and in which our NATO ally see this as a new benchmark to which those who do not already can aspire and meet . what be we do to ensure that we not only make the investment but achieve that triple whammy ? my right hon . friend the Chair of the Defence Committee be absolutely right on the investment point . I speak to my opposite number , US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin , yesterday evening about how it will help to galvanise NATO in particular to make great investment . when we go to the NATO summit in Washington for the 75th anniversary , the new baseline will be 2 . 5 % , rather than the 2 % one set by the UK in 2014 , which 18 or so of NATO ' s 32 member have now reach . that investment send a very important signal to the whole defence industrial base . that be why it be critical to set out the plan and stick to it , and agree to reach 2 . 5 % by 2030 . I call the SNP spokesperson . the Secretary of State clearly have a herculean task to find £ 75 billion , so let we seek clarity on where it may be find . I welcome the investment if it be in capability . I agree with the shadow Secretary of State on why it be not in the Budget . I think we all know why : it do not stand up to scrutiny . let I also welcome the Secretary of State ' s investment in Ukraine , on the back of the US commitment . I have to say to our US colleague that it be long overdue . let I ask some specific question . it be the duty of opposition to challenge Government , and we will have our difference . with no increase in borrowing or debt , the implication be that there will be deep cut to other public service . if the Government have assume a baseline with spend freeze in cash term as of GDP , as I think be allude to by the shadow Defence Secretary , it come nowhere near £ 75 billion . as I come from a service family , I wonder if the Secretary of State will commit to a direct increase in spend on accommodation , training and recruitment as part of this proposal , give that we be at a near napoleonic decline on the frontline and have push member of the armed force into food bank and near penury ? the Secretary of State and I will , of course , disagree on the nuclear deterrent , but I wonder if he will answer one specific point while he retain it . the nuclear enterprise have be expose as unaffordable in the late report by the National Audit Office . what assurance can he give the House that the nuclear deterrent will not continue to cannibalise the Ministry of Defence budget and , specifically , the £ 75 billion he have propose today ? the first thing I should point out be that page 20 in the annex of the document before the House describe the uplift in the defence budget . we have headline it as £ 75 billion . in fact , when we go through and add up the individual amount year on year , it reach £ 77 billion of expenditure . member can see there exactly how we will get to it . secondly , it be fully fund . I know the Labour party do not like the idea , but we will remove 72 , 000 civil servant from the system , not because we do not think they be good people — fortunately , with low unemployment we know they will be gainfully employ elsewhere — but because we want to get back to the size of the civil service we have before covid , before it expand greatly . we see no reason to continue to run a civil service with 70 , 000 additional people each year , when that money could go into the defence of the realm . the hon . Gentleman ask about our commitment to our armed force personnel , their family and their accommodation . he may have miss it in my statement , but I mention £ 4 billion that we will now invest in their accommodation and condition over this period , thank to this big uplift . he will be aware that last year there be a lot of problem with leak and boiler not be fix for considerable period of time . there have not be those story this year , because we get on top of that with £ 400 million and by make sure that contractor be do their job . as the hon . Gentleman rightly say , we have our difference on thing like nuclear deterrence , but if there be one thing that benefit Scotland in particular , I would suggest it be what go on at Faslane , with the extraordinary high - quality job it produce and the proud part it play in this nation ' s defence . I call the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee . the main reason why this welcome uplift have come when it have be Russia ' s aggression against Ukraine . do the Secretary of State agree that if Russia and Putin be see to fail in Ukraine , the threat to NATO will be put back for at least a generation ? conversely , if they succeed , the threat to NATO will intensify . will he therefore do everything he can to persuade our ally , especially certain part of the United States ' new political establishment , that the success of Ukraine be essential for the peace of Europe and , indeed , the peace of the world ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . although this be £ 75 billion and although it take our budget to 2 . 5 % of GDP , that be a fraction — a fraction — of what it would cost if Putin be successful in Ukraine . there be no chance he would stop there — none . other autocrat elsewhere would look at that and exploit the idea that all they have to do be outwait the west and we will get bored of it — through some form of attention deficit — and give up defend the thing we say we would never stop defend . that , in the end , would cost we all a huge amount more . may I first of all congratulate the Secretary of State on his stellar use - car salesman act , which we have become use to ? on 26 March , he appear , along with official , before the Defence Committee . his strategic finance director confirm that next year , when we take Ukraine funding out of the budget , the defence budget fall . can he tell the House how he reconcile that fact , which be confirm by his own official , with his claim today and the Prime Minister ' s yesterday to be put the country on a war footing ? I be really sorry that the right hon . Gentleman cheapen what be a very important discussion about the defence of the realm with such a ridiculous remark . we should all come here in the right spirit to discuss these important issue , give the subject matter . he ask about Ukraine . Ukraine be a part of what our armed force and this country be have to deal with . we do not ask America to strip out its help to Ukraine , in the same way that we do not ask it to strip out its help to Afghanistan or Iraq , because it be part of the core defence budget . yesterday — I do not mention this in my statement , and perhaps on this basis the right hon . Gentleman may be forgive — we also say that our enhanced amount of money for Ukraine be not now just for this year , but we be go to carry on do it every single year into the future . so , yes , it be part of our core expense . I commend the Secretary of State for obtain this massive £ 75 billion increase in defence , which theoretically would allow we to buy 20 new Queen Elizabeth class aircraft carrier . at the risk of upset our excellent First Sea Lord , we be not likely to do that , but we be put our defence industry on a war footing . can we do the concomitant thing and create a war reserve of equipment with old Typhoons , old warship and old armoured vehicle , so that if we have to fight at short notice we would have enough equipment to do it and so that we can tell our adversary that when we say , " si vis pacem , para bellum , " we actually mean it ? I thank my right hon . friend not just for his word , but for his constant campaigning on this subject . those of we who have be subject to he in a Select Committee know that he know his fact , know what he be talk about and have do as much as anybody to ensure that this uplift be happen . I can confirm for the House that we will not be use the £ 75 billion for 20 new aircraft carrier . my right hon . friend make an interesting point about what we could do with old equipment . I have to say to he that right now , I be much more minded to send that equipment to Ukraine . that be why , yesterday , I pull together the big donation package to date , in what be now the third year of the war , of equipment to Ukraine . for the time be , I think we will be send it in an easterly direction . can I ask the Secretary of State what he believe a war foot be ? very simply , Ukraine have teach the world a great deal about this . when it come to , for instance , produce sufficient munition to restock the Ukrainians ' supply , it be very difficult — in fact , impossible — to do that instantaneously . when there be global competition for 155s or other missile , we want to ensure that our own industrial defence estate be able to produce such item by tell those in the industry that they be on a war footing . by put in £ 75 billion more and , critically , name the date by which we will get there , we will put they on that war footing . I commend my right hon . friend for his stalwart stubbornness in secure this important increase in defence spending . he and I both know that much more money be need , but this be a step in the right direction . he be off shortly to meet NATO member , and I fear that he will have a great deal of work to do . for example , only two NATO member be prepared to open fire on the Houthis in the strait of Hormuz , one of the major trade route for NATO and the west . do my right hon . Friend feel that there will be a lot of work for he to do when he go to meet those NATO member and ask they to step up and spend 2 . 5 % on defence , as they should do and as we be go to do ? I thank my hon . and gallant Friend for his comment . he be right to point out the need to be prepared to use the ability that we have . Ours be one of the only country with both the global reach and the desire and preparedness to use those ability , which be why we have end up defend ship in the Red sea from the Houthis . I can report that a specific incident along those line have take place today , with our armed force in action , and we can be very proud of everything they do for we . on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s statement about increase defence spending , although it relate to a time six year hence rather than be specific about funding in the intervene year . eighteen of the 32 member of NATO be still not spend even 2 % of gdp on defence , include France , Spain and Italy . encourage they to spend more be not so much about fairness as about persuade sceptic in the United States that North America should remain engaged in Europe . leverage at the NATO summit in July will come too late . what additional commitment do the Secretary of State and other Ministers obtain from our ally before announce the 2030 pledge ? first , I assure the hon . Gentleman that it start this year — the half a billion pound be in this year ' s budget . we have opt to give that money directly to Ukraine , in addition to the money that we be already gift it , bring the total to £ 3 billion . secondly , let I gently say that I do not think I have ever hear Liberal Democrats argue for more defence spending , but I strongly welcome the hon . gentleman to the cause . I agree with he entirely that 2 % — which we ourselves set back in 2014 — be no long the baseline that we should be work to , but I gently point out to he that the reason it have take some time to replace Trident , and in particular the submarine , be that there be a short period under the coalition when we could not get our liberal Democrat partner to agree to get on with the job . may I , in pass , pay tribute to the late Frank Field ? he vote for the renewal of Trident , unlike many on the Labour Front Bench , and he would have understand that deepen our defence capability in the conventional force be a vital part of the deterrence that NATO provide for the security of Europe . I commend my right hon . friend and the Government for lead the way on this , and set an example through leadership . I thank my hon . friend and add my condolence to those already convey by other . Frank Field be a great statesman with really innovative idea about welfare reform , which it take this government to enact , and he be a great loss to we all . I entirely agree with my hon . friend about our leadership in NATO in get to 2 . 5 % . I be talk about that to the Secretary - General of NATO yesterday . we must ensure that 2 . 5 % be the new level at which people operate . if they do — if everyone join we at 2 . 5 % — there would be £ 135 billion per annum more in the collective NATO budget , which would make a huge difference . labour be absolutely committed to reach 2 . 5 % , and we welcome the additional £ 500 million for Ukraine , but time be of the essence . what be the Secretary of State do to speed up the delivery of much - need military supply to the frontline in Ukraine ? I warmly welcome the hon . Lady ' s comment , and I hope very much that those on her Front Bench , who have not attach themselves to the timeline that she urge , have listen closely to what she have say . as for the delivery of item to the frontline , we will be very fast ; we will deliver in a matter of day or week quite a lot of the item outline in the very extensive package announce yesterday , although they come in a number of different form and some , by their physical nature , will take long to deliver than other . I welcome the announcement , and indeed the decision that have finally be make in the United States . can my right hon . friend confirm that investment will go into not just technology , but the logistic , the warehousing and the background facility here in the UK — such as those at MOD Longtown , a very important employer for my constituency — to ensure that our frontline force be supply with the good kit that they could possibly have ? my right hon . friend can certainly have that reassurance . we know that such support be extraordinarily important to the running of truly lethal and effective armed force . in every year since 2010 , the Government — along with their liberal Democrat partner — have miss recruitment target , and the Times have warn that Army number could fall to 70 , 000 full - time equivalent . what be the Defence Secretary do to ensure that those who wish to serve and defend our country be not put off by the broken recruitment system ? the hon . Lady will be pleased to hear that in January and February we have an eight - year high in the number of application for the Army , which be reflect in the other service . I agree that we need to be much more effective in get application all the way through the system . it take too long , and the procedure be too disparate . People be have to turn up for an initial interview , go away and then come back for a medical . why not do all those thing at once ? however , other measure be really help . there have be a pay increase of nearly 10 % for the less well - pay member of the armed force in the last year , which have help with recruitment , and people see our armed force involve in so much action have also help . the Minister for Defence People and Families be spend a great deal of time ensure that the many recommendation — 67 , I think — in the Haythornthwaite review be implement as quickly as possible . I join the many voice that have call for some time for an increase in defence spending , and we welcome this announcement . I suspect that , privately , the Defence Secretary be hope that this day would come as well , and I congratulate he on the work that he have do behind the scene to ensure that this funding be secure . state - on - state conflict have return in Europe , and the world be more dangerous , more contested and more polarised . will the Defence Secretary therefore expand a little on the consequence to UK security and to the UK economy if Russia win ? before rush in to spend these increase fund , will he recognise the need to consider the full spectrum of threat and warfare that we face , so that money be wisely spend ? my right hon . and gallant Friend have be a very important part of ensure that we get to where we be today , but I have not realise that I have be keep my own desire to reach this point quite so secret . he be correct in say that the implication of Russia ' s win this war would be horrendous . the cost of what this country have to put up with because of covid , for example , would seem small in comparison with the cost of what could happen if other autocratic state decide to take a chunk of other people ' s land ; that could have a direct impact on our economy . this be not , in my view , money that we be spend ; it be money that we be invest in our security , to ensure that Russia and other despotic leader like Putin never think that they can try it on with we . we will be invest it extremely wisely in many programme with which my right hon . friend and other member on both side of the House be familiar , as well as in innovative new area such as the DragonFire . may I thank the Secretary of State for the urgent support for Ukraine , which be much need just now ? however , the Institute for Fiscal Studies point out that in the Chancellor ' s Budget , there be a conspiracy of silence between the Government and the Labour party on follow the fiscal rule when it come to say where £ 20 billion - worth of cut to public service would come from . today ' s announcement add up to another £ 9 billion of cut to public service . can he explain where those cut will be make ? we have already lay out the fact that this plan be fully cost and fund . as I have mention to the House , we have say that we will reduce the size of the civil service by 72 , 000 . that be not a one - off cut ; it be money that be not be pay each year , and will help to fund defence . there be also some other thing that the Chancellor will no doubt wish to get into . I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman have take a look at page 20 and the annexe , but he will see that this be all set out . I absolutely welcome this very important investment in defence . as my right hon . Friend say , the world be a change place , and I be sure that he would agree that defence be indeed a public service . on the extra funding and the project that he have announce , may I ask he to make sure that he say to the Treasury that the programme should be fully fund ? this should not just be capital investment . the Treasury have a habit of say , " the capital investment be fine , but let ' s not worry about revenue . " the project will need revenue , so will he make sure to have those conversation with the Treasury ? my right hon . friend make a very clear point , base on his experience of the Department . we have to make sure not just that we fund the capital , but that we have the resource to run the equipment . he raise a very important matter , and this budget enable we to ensure that this be do properly . I , too , welcome the increase to 2 . 5 % . the world have definitely become a more dangerous place over the last 14 year . I can only suppose that the announcement be not make in last month ' s Budget because it would have come under scrutiny from the Office for Budget Responsibility , but could the Defence Secretary say exactly what proportion of the 2 . 5 % will be spend on cyber - security and armed service personnel ? I should point out to the House that we have always say that we would do this when condition allow . inflation fall to 3 . 2 % last week — down from over 11 % . ten day ago , we see Iran fire hundred of missile at a democratic state , and we be partly involve in the collective defence . it be therefore true to say that the world be show itself to be even more dangerous . we have reach the point where we be see growth back in the economy and inflation fall , so now be the right time to do this . the hon . Lady ask about the sum of money that will go into , for example , cyber or space . I do not have those figure on I . I would be very happy to write to she with an overview , because it will take a bit of collation to work that out exactly from the exist budget . quite a lot of what happen in strategic command , which cover those area , cross over into other part of the armed force , so it be not a simple question to answer . this be a very welcome statement , so I thank my right hon . friend . he mention the Haythornthwaite report . when will we get an update , particularly on the plan to spend the £ 4 million investment in service family accommodation ? very soon . I accept the need for additional defence spending , but may I ask the Defence Secretary for reassurance that the Government ' s strategy for UK and global security go forward will have an appropriate balance of hard and soft power ? by that I mean ongoing investment in diplomacy , humanitarian assistance , international development — potentially include the restoration of the target of spending 0 . 7 % of gross national income — and , indeed , support for the international rule - base order . I can certainly reassure the hon . Gentleman that that be something that we in the MOD be always look to do . we have just make our seventh or eighth drop of food aid into Gaza , use the RAF . we be work with the Americans on other solution , include the pier , and I work very closely with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . indeed , I use to be a Minister in the former Department for International Development , so I be well aware of the issue he raise . the MOD will always look to assist , with our armed force , wherever we can ; we often combine hard and soft power . this have be a good week for defence , and I commend the Government on their commitment to 2 . 5 % , but the issue be how we spend it . could the Defence Secretary confirm to the House that , rather than our focus on exquisite exclusivity or — heaven forbid — indulge single service bad behaviour , the money will be spend on plug capability gap , well operate the platform that we have , and ensure that our force have the activity , resilience and sustainment to maintain and enhance their world - lead and persistent global posture ? that be an excellent question . the Minister for Defence Procurement have do an outstanding job on a publication that I recommend to everyone in the House : " Integrated Procurement Model " . it be much more exciting than it sound . that new model have already be responsible for bring forward the procurement of the DragonFire by five year . rather than our try to create exquisite , unbelievably complicated and never - quite - right equipment , the model will bring equipment into the field and allow it to be spiral and develop far . my hon . friend be absolutely right : we will use this money much more intelligently to make sure that we get kit into the field , and expand and improve it from there . while I welcome the increase to 2 . 5 % , the modus operandi of this Secretary of State be to come to this House and announce billion of pound of investment to get people salivate about it , only for it to never happen . look at Northern Powerhouse Rail and High Speed 2 . we know it , the country know it and the brass know it . the Times report that we will fall to below 70 , 000 full - time equivalent troop . where will we be with boot on the ground in a year ' s time ? the way for this not to happen be for the public to vote for the hon . Gentleman ' s party , because I have not hear this afternoon that the Labour party be commit to make it happen . if people want 2 . 5 % by 2030 , they should vote Conservative , because that be what we will give they . I think I will leave it there . I add my tribute to the late Frank Field , who be an extraordinary man and a great parliamentarian . in welcome the announcement of an additional £ 75 billion over the next six year , which be much need , may I urge the Secretary of State to consider the potential for a fifth successor - class submarine ? I note that the patrol time for the Vanguard class be approach 200 day , which be not sustainable , and it be vital that we give ourselves as much operational capacity as we can with our deterrent . we will always keep a very close eye on how we ensure a constant at - sea nuclear deterrent . I can confirm that it have be at sea every single day for 54 year , and we do not intend to have that stretch break . quite what that require be a matter for defence study . as my right hon . friend know , we be commit to deliver four dreadnought , which will be far more modern . like any modern piece of equipment , they be likely to have great reliability as well . we will not let this country down when it come to our nuclear deterrent . as I say in my statement , we be not do this just because we be approach an election . we have always believe in our nuclear deterrent , and we always will . even Winston Churchill recognise that modern conflict be fight by people , not army . that be why world war two be the genesis of the NHS and the welfare state . however , while military spending be increase , public service be collapse . be it not as important to wage war on poverty at home as it be to prepare for war abroad ? if there need to be an increase in military and defence expenditure , surely it should come from the cancellation of the fail Trident project , which be impoverish military service , rather than from public service . why should the people pay for the Government ' s war ? I could not disagree with the hon . Gentleman more strongly . even in my time as Defence Secretary , there be decision that I have make that , if we have not have the nuclear deterrent , I would have hesitate in make . it protect we every single day in way that be not always immediately obvious to everyone . the idea that by not invest in our defence we would somehow be safe , and that somehow all that money would be available to invest in all these other public service , be to misunderstand the first principle of every government : we be here to defend the realm , without which there would be nothing to pay for internally , because we would not be safe externally . in the 1930 , a wise Government ensure that RAF airfield be upgrade and improve , and that save we from extinction in 1940 . if we be to be on a war footing , will the Secretary of State remind the Home Office that it be its duty to maintain the good runway in Europe , the 10 , 000 - ft runway at RAF Scampton , instead of let it rot , as it be at present ? if the Home Office be incapable of do that , will it hand it over to Scampton Holdings as soon as possible — as we have argue for 15 month — so that it can be use , improve and available for a future emergency ? my right hon . friend be speak to the converted . as a keen pilot , I agree with he entirely . in fact , this usually work the other way around , but I will offer he a meeting so that we can discuss RAF Scampton and its long - term future , rather than the short term , in more detail . come from a naval family , it be important to I that Labour be also want to reach 2 . 5 % . our ambition be no less than that of the Government . the Defence Secretary have say that this defence spending increase will be fund in part by big cut in the number of civil servant . how much of this cut will be in the MOD civilian workforce , and will the Royal Fleet Auxiliary be exempt ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s support for this package and for the 2 . 5 % and gently suggest that conversation with those on her own Front Bench would be important at this point . it be in the interest of national security that both side sign up to 2 . 5 % by a deadline , which we note this afternoon have not happen . she ask a specific question about the reduction . in the MOD , it would be a 10 , 000 reduction by 2028 . to be clear , that be a reduction from about 60 , 000 to 50 , 000 . I personally believe that be exactly the right thing to do if it help to pay for our brave man and woman in the armed force out in the country . Less bureaucracy and more action — I think that be a good thing . I thank the Secretary of State for his recent visit to Shropshire , which he reference , and also to welcome his statement and the statement of the Prime Minister yesterday . this be record investment into UK defence , which will be very welcome in Shropshire . would my right hon . friend like to take this opportunity to put on record his thank to all those that work in uniform and the civilian at RAF Cosford , at MOD Donnington , at Babcock and at RBSL — Rheinmetall BAE Systems Land — which he recently visit ? can he confirm that the UK ' s and Shropshire ' s defence be secure with this Government ? I warmly join my right hon . friend in send exactly that message . as he say , just last week I be look at the first prototype of the Challenger 3 come off the production line in his patch . my only regret be that I be not able to see he at the same time . my write question this week have uncover another worrying increase in nuclear safety event at nuclear weapon site in 2023 , with the first category a safety breach in 15 year at Faslane and the high number of category b incident since 2006 . Category a incident be define as those that have an actual or high potential for radioactive release to the environment in breach of safety limit . a former chief adviser to a Prime Minister have describe our exist nuclear stock as " rot " and " a dangerous disaster " . can the Secretary of State tell we how much of this extra spend will go towards ensure that , at the very least , exist nuclear site do not deteriorate far , threaten the health and safety of armed force staff and surround population ? I be pleased to report to the hon . Lady that our defence standard , particularly when it come to our nuclear estate , be extremely high . whenever an issue be find , it be properly and thoroughly investigate . she be right to say that it be important that we continue to invest in that . this money be good news : every bit help and we want to ensure that it be spend appropriately . as it happen , we fund the nuclear estate appropriately , but this money will help to ensure that be put well beyond doubt . this be a very welcome announcement . there be no string attach , and a guarantee move to 2 . 5 % of GDP send a powerful message to two group of people : our NATO partner and our adversary around the world . do the Secretary of State agree , however , that the powerful message be undermine by what I can only describe as the mealy - mouthed response from the Labour , Liberal Democrat and Scot Nat Front Benches ? if they will not support what we be do , what sort of message do that send to Putin and to other enemy ? surely what we want now be cross - party consensus : it must be 2 . 5 % and Labour must side with we on it . I could not agree with my hon . friend more . may I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the reservist base in Croydon , who , among many role , have be in Estonia help to keep we all safe ? Labour want to reach 2 . 5 % , but my right hon . friend the shadow Defence Secretary have ask why there be no budget line or fully fund plan for the announcement . this appear to be a bit of a pattern across Government . only yesterday , I learn that a £ 1 billion announcement make about carbon capture and storage several year ago still appear nowhere on a Treasury budget line . if the Government play so fast and loose with our public funding , how on earth will the Secretary of State deliver the economic stability on which our defence spending rely ? I encourage the hon . Lady , and all Opposition Members , to have a close look at what we announce yesterday . this be a fully fund announcement . we have explain where the money will come from . we have set out in table that you can go and read , Madam Deputy Speaker , the funding for the £ 75 billion . it be true that a choice exist that Labour Front Benchers need to talk not only to their Back Benchers about — because they will not agree with increase to 2 . 5 % by 2030 — but unfortunately to many on their Front Bench as well . they will need to talk to 11 in particular — the one who have vote against Trident , some of whom want to leave our nuclear deterrent behind and possibly even leave NATO as well . conservative Members be , however , entirely unite in the idea of spend 2 . 5 % , set a date for it now , set out how that spending will work and make the choice to get there . I strongly welcome this investment , which rightly recognise the increasingly unstable world in which we be operate . many of our military capability be power by advanced semi - conductor , and recent year have show how fragile these supply chain can be . will the Secretary of State set out what the Government be do to develop strong alliance focus on secure our supply of that vital component ? my hon . friend be right . as Business Secretary , I take the decision on Newport Wafer Fab , which highlight to I the importance of our own supply chain for advanced semiconductor , particularly in the defence realm . that be one reason that , in the plan we publish yesterday , we have commit to a new level of 5 % of r & D for defence , to ensure that we be not only research and develop but , through the expansion of the military capability in the industrial base , produce the thing that we need for our armed force . Labour want to reach 2 . 5 % . I do not know how many more Labour member need to say that before it get through . if anybody be listen , my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , the shadow Secretary of State , also say that clearly in his contribution . the Secretary of State say repeatedly on the medium round this morning , and in the Chamber , that on page 20 we can find the fully cost plan . bear in mind that there be no mention on page 20 of how the 2 . 5 % will be reach through the cut to the civil service that the Secretary of State have describe , and that the entire civil service budget be only £ 16 . 6 billion , where be the fully fund plan ? it be not on page 20 . the hon . Lady once again assert that Labour want to reach 2 . 5 % . labour can not just assert it ; it have to will the mean to get there . I do not hear that from the Labour Front Bench in response to this statement or yesterday ' s announcement . as in all normal case , and particularly spend review , the Treasury will set out all the number go forward , but the fact of the matter be that the figure publish yesterday show £ 77 billion more be spend from this year through to the end of the decade , in part pay for by remove 72 , 000 civil servant from the system so that we get back to where we be before covid . if Labour do not want to follow that approach , it could follow another , but the hon . Lady can not just assert that Labour agree without explain how it will do it . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I also warmly welcome the increase of defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp , and I congratulate my right hon . friend and the Prime Minister on the leadership role they be provide to NATO . on where this extra money will go , will my right hon . friend elaborate a little more on the balance between meet the exist challenge in the equipment plan and introduce innovative new capability through the new procurement model that he commend to the House early ? we will both ensure that we deliver the thing that we have say we will deliver . in a change world , with the threat of Iran , Russia , a much more assertive China and a nuclear - armed North Korea , we be adjust our programme to ensure that it do what be require . new innovation , as my right hon . friend will have gather from my comment about spend 5 % of gdp on R & D , be very important to we . we can now see how , in an asymmetric war , Russia ' s entire Black Sea fleet have be make inoperative by a ukrainian navy that have no fleet at all — a ghost fleet . we need to consider how we do all that , and this money will be use wisely in that context . I thank the Secretary of State , the Prime Minister and the Government for their clear commitment to 2 . 5 % . I also thank they for commit an extra £ 500 million of aid for Ukraine , which be important . the Secretary of State and the Government be set a target for the rest of NATO to follow , and I hope it will . I very much welcome the news of an increase in defence spending , which my party and I have push for , but how much of the increase will be foot on the ground and how much will be enhance cyber - security ? we be stick with the defence review and refresh , which set out the exact personnel number . I think it be 188 , 000 across all three service . I have explain the extent to which new technology be help to shape our thinking , but so be the lesson from Ukraine , particularly on the need to have munition and large stockpile available . there be , of course , many excellent location , include in Northern Ireland , where more munition and missile be be create as we speak , with about an eightfold expansion . I look forward to visit some of those who will enjoy the additional £ 10 billion , bring the total to about £ 25 billion , over the next few week . rise — Order . I be anxious to ensure that all colleague get in , but I urge brief question so that the Secretary of State can give brief answer . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I chair the 1922 defence committee , and the Secretary of State will know from Prime Minister ' s question that the whole conservative party welcome this announcement , but may I suggest that the message from the Government would carry so much great resonance globally if the official opposition also sign up to it ? I be a former member of the armed force , so I can assure he that the country speak as a whole — the official Opposition and the Government together — carry much great weight internationally for the good of the country . my hon . and gallant Friend be absolutely right . we have see how that have work with Ukraine , and I be sorry that it be not work today with the timeline to get to 2 . 5 % . I be afraid it prove , once again , that this country ' s safety be in the right hand when conservative be in power . I echo the word of the Secretary - General of NATO , Jens Stoltenberg , who say after yesterday ' s defence spending announcement that " once again , the UK be lead by example . " in the light of the £ 500 million support package for Ukraine — and have see the awful picture of missile attack on ukrainian city , include the destruction of the tv tower in Kharkiv in the past 48 hour — can my right hon . friend confirm that the much - need ammunition and missile system will be in Ukraine as soon as possible , to aid its fight against russian aggression ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , both about what the Secretary - General say about how we be lead NATO in this regard , and about the absolute importance of our be there for Ukraine . we can not afford for this war to be lose , and it will not be lose . I will make sure that he receive the comprehensive list of the item that we will now be supply . it be widely report some month ago that my right hon . friend and the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have write to the Prime Minister set out their concern about the future of Scunthorpe ' s blast furnace . for all the reason he have state today , this be more important than ever , so I commend he for his foresight prior to his current role . will he consider the importance of good - quality , British - make steel to our nation ' s defence capability ? I well remember my hon . friend ' s pretty much constant lobbying . she be a great champion for her steelwork , and her comment about the importance of use british steel in british defence be take on board . we should all be grateful that today ' s statement absolutely answer the widespread assessment of the increase risk in the world . can my right hon . friend confirm that he , the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister be discuss contribution with our european NATO partner ? how important be our commitment to NATO both to the current US Administration and to any future US Administration ? lastly , do he agree that private sector innovation — Roke have recently open an office in Gloucester — will be an important part of our defence procurement ? my hon . friend be right about ensure that we use this announcement to persuade other NATO member to do the same thing . I be proactively speak to and texte my colleague throughout NATO and beyond on this just yesterday , and I receive very encouraging response . I look forward to hear more about the company in his constituency . I congratulate my right hon . friend and his Ministers on the work they have rightly do to reform defence procurement , give the significant increase in spending announce by the Prime Minister . how will these change ensure that our military force receive equipment more quickly and , in particular , how will they benefit british manufacturer by offer global export opportunity ? the integrated procurement plan , brilliantly create by my hon . friend the Minister for Defence Procurement , have ensure that export and exportability be a key part of the contract . I have mention how we have already use this model to speed up the production of DragonFire . we be also use the integrated procurement model to make sure that we do not over - spec thing , so that they do not become like — ajax . I be not go to say Ajax , but I will say it now . Ajax be over - specce to the point where it become a very delay project . fortunately , it be now back on track . Stroud constituent will welcome the Prime Minister ' s boost for defence spending and ongoing focus on the danger that we all face . the Stroud district be bless with many strategically important business , such as Steller Systems , which I be with on Friday , Retro Track & Air and Impcross , to name but a few . these be innovative , nimble and agile company do extraordinary thing . on behalf of the small and medium - sized enterprise and the small family business that be play their part in protect our country and other around the UK , will the Secretary of State confirm that sme will get their fair crack at contract and that the big boy will pay they on time , to keep they alive for the benefit of all ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I predict that company in Stroud will do very well from this if they be produce innovative and useful equipment for our armed force . I take on board her point about small and medium - sized enterprise . when I be run my printing business and company pay late , it would put huge pressure on cash flow . one of the great thing that this Government have do be speed up the necessity for large organisation , particularly the prime , to pay properly and on time . it be great to hear the Secretary of State ' s announcement about the £ 75 billion investment . do he agree that it send a clear signal to our brave armed force that the party in government back they , to the country that we back defence of the realm , and to company in our supply chain up and down the country , include those in my constituency , that we back job security ? it also expose the opposition as have no plan at all for defence . my hon . friend hit the nail on the head . the Prime Minister make the announcement yesterday in front of british troop , who be out in Poland do incredible work . the reassurance of the idea that there be a period of time lead up to 2 . 5 % , with the first increase come immediately , really help they to do their job , because they know that they be want and trust , and that we honour their work . I agree with the other comment he make . it be a shame that there have not be an entirely cross - party welcome for the announcement . I warmly welcome the announcement . the Secretary of State be kind enough to call in on I in Wolverhampton North East last week , and I speak about the importance of aerospace to my local economy , with company like HS Marston Aerospace , Collins Aerospace and Moog . how can he ensure that those company benefit from the highly skilled , well pay job that this uplift in spending will bring ? do he agree that industry need the certainty of cross - party agreement in order to make those investment , and that the Labour party need to step up ? I very much enjoy my visit to my hon . friend ' s constituency . she do indeed tell I about the defence company that be so vibrant in her area . the future look incredibly bright for they , give the amount we be invest and the fact that defence be typically an extremely well - pay profession . there be enormous ability for apprentice and graduate to be recruit , so her constituent will be happy about the announcement . I congratulate the Prime Minister and the Secretary of State on the welcome announcement that defence spending will be increase to 2 . 5 % of gdp , and on their leadership on funding and support for Ukraine . for the sake of freedom , democracy and global safety , it be so important that Ukraine prevail . the announcement show that it be our Conservative Government who will protect our nation and stand with our ally in the face of increase international threat . will the Secretary of State confirm that this sensible linear increase in funding for defence will help our defence industry to ramp up production in parallel , mean that our armed force will be support , capable and resilient , and be able to keep we and our ally safe ? I absolutely can confirm that . one of the feature of the way that we have do this be to create a straight line from next year to 2030 , to ensure that industrial capacity can ramp up with certainty behind it . I be pleased to confirm that the answer be yes . the Chief of the Defence Staff from Estonia be in Salisbury plain , in my constituency , last week . he tell we that his country have 40 , 000 man and woman in its army reserve , ready to serve at 24 hour ' notice ; I call that be on a war footing , give that Estonia have a population 50 time small than our . I be not propose that we try to replicate that — proportionally , that would mean a 2 million - strong reserve — but will he consider use some of the money to boost our important reserve force ? my hon . friend will know that we be twin with Estonia through NATO and we provide protection to it . Estonia be very much on the frontline with Russia , in a way that we be fortunate not to be . we currently have 30 , 000 reserve . rather than use they , we can use the many other thing we bring to NATO and to Estonia ' s protection , include the ability to provide personnel and equipment , which we do on regular basis . I commend my right hon . friend on the work he have do in set the new 2 . 5 % baseline . it will reassure our ally , send an important message to our adversary and strengthen our industrial base . I thank he for the part he play in secure £ 220 million for Barrow , as a result of the Team Barrow project , secure our future and ease delivery of Dreadnought and SSN - AUKUS . barrow shipyard be not alone in deliver the submarine enterprise , so will my right hon . friend confirm that some of the £ 75 billion will be spend on other key site , such as Faslane , Devonport and other ? I absolutely can confirm to he that it be intend to benefit site across the country . in the document we publish yesterday , a map on page 10 show how the different area and region of the country will benefit , not just in our nuclear estate but throughout the defence estate . there be not a constituency that do not benefit from the £ 75 billion announce yesterday . my hon . friend welcome the announcement and it be time for other to follow that lead . I add my own tribute to the late Lord Field . he take the time to talk to I when I be a conservative councillor about a concern we share for the weak and most vulnerable in society , which reach across the aisle of the House . there be no doubt that the international threat be develop and the world be a more dangerous place , so I welcome today ' s statement . what I hear be an investment in the armed force that we need , not necessarily the armed force we have . do my right hon . friend share my concern that the statement from the opposition that they be plan to conduct a review be verge on the careless , in that it give comfort only to those who seek to do the UK harm ? my hon . friend be right about the armed force that we need , not the armed force that we have . we want our armed force to be lethal , quick , agile and capable , which be why it be so important that we invest this £ 75 billion . he be also right to point out that to have yet another review be simply to invite chaos and delay at exactly the time our adversary be look at we , hope that we do not get on with the job of deliver an extra 2 . 5 % of gdp in funding , which would play into their hand . I thank the Secretary of State for the announcement of 2 . 5 % in defence spending by 2030 . will my right hon . friend acknowledge the fantastic effort deliver by our reserve force , which I have the pleasure to see for myself in Northumberland last Saturday ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s comment . there be many member of the reserve force in the House , include the Minister for Defence People and Families , my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) . we thank all member of the reserve force for their service and for the time they give , and we thank their employer , who allow they to take the time to be reservist . we be grateful for all they do . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the House have be receive information about the Government ' s ongoing arm export to Israel , about which the Deputy Prime Minister speak early . a High Court hearing on a judicial review into arm export , which finish yesterday , provide lot of information that — I will say this politely — be far from the impression we have be give by Ministers about arm sale , especially about how we have the most robust arm export licence in the world . one such example be that although the Government last review and approve arm sale to Israel on 8 April , it appear that that do not consider the killing of three british aid worker in israeli air strike on Gaza on 1 April . I think we all find that shocking . Madam Deputy Speaker , can you advise how we ensure the Government be provide this House with up - to - date and accurate information , and how we can well hold the Government to account over this pressing and serious matter ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order and for give I notice of it . I think he will be interested to know that Ministers be give evidence to the Business and Trade Committee on this subject early today . in view of that , I be sure that he will find a way to ask Ministers about any new information that may have come to light since they last answer question on this subject in the Chamber . I should also say that the Secretary of State for Defence have stay to listen to his point of order , and I be sure that the Treasury Bench will feed back the point that he have make . Heritage Public Houses Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require local authority to maintain a register of heritage public house in their area and to make provision in connection with the compilation and maintenance of such register ; to make provision relate to planning application in respect of public house on such a register ; to place restriction on the sale of heritage public house ; to make provision relate to the nomination of heritage public house as asset of community value ; to make provision about the listing of heritage public house ; and for connected purpose . I stand before you today , Madam Deputy Speaker , with a call to action . on 5 August last year , we learn of the devastating loss of a cherished piece of my local community ' s history , the Crooked House . this beloved pub with its unique character and rich tapestry of story be senselessly destroy in what be see by most as the ruthless pursuit of profit over preservation . the Crooked House be not just a pub . over century , it be a gathering place , a sanctuary , a piece of our share heritage . its wall hold countless memory and moment that define our life in the Black Country and far beyond . build in 1765 , the Crooked House see the birth of the industrial revolution and the trial and tribulation of a people who work our coalmine and our limestone mine , and who work in our foundry make nail and all the chain and anchor of the ship that sail the seven sea . these be a long - suffer people who just get on with the job , while their live and working condition be truly appalling . see the Crooked House violently reduce to ashe and rubble immediately tear a profound wound that cut deep into the consciousness of a people not just locally , but nationally , and in fact from all corner of the planet . the destruction of the Crooked House be not just a tragedy , but a wake - up call . it expose a disturbing trend where short - sighted greed trump the preservation of our cultural heritage . it vividly expose the shortcoming of our system and framework that should offer well protection to these treasured asset . anybody who might push back at this assertion should perhaps explain why it be that , across the country , historic pub — the hub of many local community — be under threat from the same force that claim the Crooked House . that be why I be here today . I be here to say that enough be enough and that it be time to put people and history before money . it be time that we enshrine the protection of our heritage pub in law to give they the good chance of survive the force of greed , and also the wind of change . imagine a future , Madam Deputy Speaker , where every historic pub be safeguard , where people can not act with impunity and where our community can thrive around these cherish institution . it be a future that we can create , but only if we act soon . we need improved legislation that empower and compel local council to well protect our heritage pub — legislation that make it financially unviable for those who destroy our history , legislation that enshrine the right of community to have a say in the future of the local pub in a meaningful way and legislation that will give these pub the good chance to survive as business . in prepare this Bill , it be important that I acknowledge the advice and support that I receive from so many : Mr Greg Mulholland , a former Member of this place who lead the campaign for pub ; my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) who provide incisive advice ; and the many local people who give their support under the umbrella of the campaign to rebuild the Crooked House , some of whom be in the Public Gallery today . there be three key element to the propose legislation : the first examine the role of local government ; the second , how temporary restriction on the sale of heritage pub could give they a fighting chance ; and the third , how the process for the purchase of asset of community value can be assist by this legislation . the first step would empower and compel local government to create and maintain a register of heritage pub . this would trigger assessment for possible listing . it would highlight their local importance and ensure that local planner have immediate visibility of any impending activity on site at point of sale . the Crooked House have no protection whatever , and an immediate application for list have no chance of succeed while event unfold very quickly . the current voluntary scheme be obviously inadequate and can not keep pace with those who will act out of greed and with impunity . in Wales , under section 24 of the Historic Environment ( Wales ) Act 2016 , building be automatically give statutory protection while Welsh Ministers make listing decision . these protection apply until Welsh Ministers have make their decision . this be an example of something that could apply in England . the second element would involve place temporary restriction on the sale of a heritage pub . that be not something that I would normally advocate . meddle with property right go against all my instinct , but if an asset with heritage and local community value be to have a chance of survive against the change in purchasing habit of customer and against the cold , hard decision make by brewery accountant , I have conclude that restrict the sale of these pub temporarily for a 12 - month period to pub - trade - only buyer and at a price independently agree by trade specialist seem like a reasonable step to take to give these beleaguered building a fighting chance . at the end of the 12 - month period should a sale not be agree , then the pub will return on to the open free market for sale . this mechanism could give a local landlord with low operating cost and overhead compare with those of a brewery the opportunity to make a success of the pub at a purchase price that be not compete with residential development buyer . finally , I will address the process for asset of community value . this be a good scheme that work well for certain asset , such as a local community hall , but can it work with the speed require when owner and buyer can move very quickly , and can the scheme handle the more complex nature of an asset that could still host a struggle go concern ? well , the Crooked House prove that the ACV scheme could not have cope . acv could well have a place if a local community become aware and mobilise during the 12 - month restriction period I refer to early , and an application be make at the end of this period . part of the ACV process require local community to raise fund and complete transaction within a six - month timeframe . the restriction period would effectively enhance that process by 12 month , make the chance of a subsequent and successful ACV purchase much great . the ongoing loss of our heritage pub can represent a devastating loss to local community . heritage pub can fail for multiple reason , and these complex problem obviously require more complex solution . that be what I be attempt to do today , and I ask Members to stand with I , because if we do not act now , we will see piece of our history eradicate forever . I say stand with the ghost of the Crooked House , stand with my local community in Gornal , Sedgley , Dudley and far beyond who want to see the Crooked House rebuild brick by brick , and stand for the future of our heritage pub . let we vow to protect these institution not just for ourselves , but for the generation to come . question put and agree to . order , that Marco Longhi , Lia Nici , Robin Millar , Gareth Johnson , Sir Edward Leigh , Shaun Bailey , Steve Tuckwell , Jane Stevenson , Sir Jeremy Wright , Lee Anderson , Jim Shannon and Mrs Paulette Hamilton present the Bill . Marco Longhi accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June , and to be print ( Bill 207 ) . renter ( Reform ) Bill Consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 15 - notice to quit by tenant under assure tenancy : time " ( 1 ) section 5 of the Protection from Eviction Act 1977 ( notice to quit ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for paragraph ( b ) substitute — ' ( b ) it satisfy — ( i ) subsection ( 1za ) , if it be give by a tenant in relation to premise let under an assured tenancy , or ( ii ) subsection ( 1zc ) in any other case ; but in relation to landlord under assure tenancy see section 5 ( 1 ) of the Housing Act 1988 ( notice to quit by landlord be of no effect ) . ' ( 3 ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — ' ( 1za ) a notice to quit satisfie this subsection if — ( a ) it be give not less than — ( i ) any length of time before the date on which the notice be to take effect , not exceed two month , that the landlord have agree to in writing , or ( ii ) in the absence of agreement under sub - paragraph ( i ) , two month before the date on which the notice be to take effect , and ( b ) it be in relation to premise let under a repeat tenancy or , if it be in relation to premise let under any other assure tenancy , it be to take effect — ( i ) no early than any time , within the period of six month begin with the day on which the term of the tenancy provide for the tenancy to begin , that the landlord have agree to in writing , or ( ii ) in the absence of agreement under sub - paragraph ( i ) , on or after the last day of the period mention in that sub - paragraph . ( 1zb ) in subsection ( 1za ) ( b ) " repeat tenancy " mean an assure tenancy under which the tenant become entitled to possession of the premise within the period of one month begin with the day after the last day of a previous assure tenancy — ( a ) under which the same premise be let , and ( b ) which be between the same party . ( 1zc ) a notice to quit satisfie this subsection if it be give not less than four week before the date on which it be to take effect . ' " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause provide that a tenant ' s notice to quit an assured tenancy be not valid if it would take effect in the first six month of the tenancy , unless the landlord agree in write to it take effect early or the tenancy follow one that end within the previous month , relate to the same property and party . it also contain the substance of exist clause 17 . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 30 — Assessment of operation of possession process . government new clause 13 — section 1 and 2 : effect of superior lease . government new clause 14 — Powers of Secretary of State in connection with chapter 1 . government new clause 16 — Power of Welsh Ministers to extend protection to person of other description . government new clause 17 — Power of Secretary of State to extend protection to person of other description : Wales . government new clause 18 — prohibition of discrimination relate to child or benefit status : Scotland . government new clause 19 — term in standard security relate to child or benefit status : Scotland . government new clause 20 — term in insurance contract relate to child or benefit status : Scotland . government new clause 21 — power of the Scottish Ministers to extend protection to person of other description . government new clause 22 — Interpretation of Chapter 4A . government new clause 23 — Power of Scottish Ministers to make consequential provision . government new clause 24 — Power of Secretary of State to extend protection to person of other description : Scotland . government new clause 25 — Landlord redress scheme : no Crown status . government new clause 26 — other amendment in connection with landlord redress scheme . government new clause 27 — Commencement . government new clause 28 — application of chapter 1 of Part 1 . government new clause 29 — assured agricultural occupancy : opt out etc . government new clause 31 — local Commissioners ' investigation of complaint by person who be not tenant . government new clause 32 — unlicensed hmo and house : offence . government new clause 33 — Service of improvement notice on landlord and licensor . government new clause 34 — rent repayment order : liability of director etc . government new clause 35 — report on certain matter relate to tenancy reform . government new clause 36 — report on provision of residential tenancy . new clause 1 — repeal of requirement for selective licensing — " part 3 of the Housing Act 2004 ( selective licensing of other residential accommodation ) be repeal . " this new clause would remove the ability of local housing authority to designate area as subject to selective licensing . new clause 2 — expand the remit of rent repayment order to company director — " in section 249a of the Housing Act 2004 , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — ' ( 1A ) if a local housing authority believe that a relevant housing offence have be commit by a body corporate , it may impose a financial penalty on — ( a ) a director , manager , secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate , or ( b ) a person purport to act in such a capacity , if it be satisfied , beyond reasonable doubt , that the offence be commit with the consent or connivance of that person , or that the offence be attributable to any neglect on the part of that person . ' " this new clause would enable local housing authority to impose financial penalty on certain individual when it believe a housing offence have be commit by a body corporate . new clause 3 — evidence to consider when grant possession order for anti - social behaviour — " in section 9a of the 1988 Act , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — ' ( 3 ) in consider evidence of conduct the court may consider evidence provide by way of hearsay and that evidence will be admissible without notice or permission of the court notwithstanding any rule of the court or the common law . ' " this new clause would enable court to consider hearsay evidence during the course of proceeding for possession on the ground of anti - social behaviour . new clause 5 — Review of change to ground for possession — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within two year of the date of Royal Assent to this Act , conduct and lie before Parliament a review of the ground for possession in Schedule 2 of the Housing Act 1988 , as amend by this Act . ( 2 ) the review must include — ( a ) an assessment of the effectiveness of the new or amend ground for possession set out in Schedule 1 of this Act in secure eviction from property ; ( b ) an assessment of the impact on the security of tenure of tenant as a result of the use of the new or amend ground for possession set out in Schedule 1 of this Act ; ( c ) a report on the use of enforcement action in relation to the new or amend ground for possession set out in Schedule 1 of this Act ; ( d ) an assessment of the effectiveness of the ground for possession list in Schedule 2 of the Housing Act 1988 in secure eviction from property that remain unamended by Schedule 1 of this Act . ( 3 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must make such recommendation as , in the opinion of the Secretary of State , be necessary in the light of the finding of the review . " this new clause would require the Government to publish a review of the impact of the amend ground for possession within two year of the Act come into force . new clause 6 — requirement to state the amount of rent when advertise residential premise — " ( 1 ) a landlord must not advertise or otherwise offer a tenancy of residential premise unless the amount of rent be state in the advertisement or offer . ( 2 ) a let agent act on behalf of a landlord must not advertise or otherwise offer a tenancy of residential premise unless the amount of rent be state in the advertisement or offer . " this new clause would require landlord or person act on their behalf to state the propose rent payable in the advertisement for the premise . new clause 7 — not invite or encouraging bid for rent — " ( 1 ) a landlord must not invite or encourage a prospective tenant or any other person to offer to pay an amount of rent for residential premise that exceed the amount of rent state as part of the advertisement or offer of the premise as require by section [ requirement to state the amount of rent when advertise residential premise ] . ( 2 ) a let agent act on behalf of a landlord must not invite or encourage a prospective tenant or any other person to offer to pay an amount of rent for residential premise that exceed the amount of rent state as part of the advertisement or offer of the premise as require by section [ requirement to state the amount of rent when advertise residential premise ] . ( 3 ) subsection ( 1 ) do not prohibit a prospective tenant or other person from offer to pay an amount that exceed the state amount of rent . " this new clause would prevent landlord or person act on their behalf from invite or encouraging bid that exceed the amount state as part of the advertisement or offer of the premise . new clause 8 — Limit on amount of rent that a residential landlord can request in advance — " in Schedule 1 to the Tenant Fees Act 2019 , after paragraph 1 ( 8 ) insert — ' ( 9 ) where rent be payable in advance , the maximum that may be charge be equivalent to the amount specify in paragraph 2 ( 3 ) . ' " this new clause would ensure that the maximum amount of rent that could be lawfully request by a residential landlord in advance of a tenancy commencing would be 5 week ' rent for tenancy of less than £ 50 , 000 per annum and to 6 week ' rent for tenancy over £ 50 , 000 per annum . new clause 10 — extension of Awaab ' s law to the private rent sector — " ( 1 ) section 10a of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) omit subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) and ( 6 ) . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 7 ) , omit the definition of ' low - cost home ownership accommodation ' and ' social housing . ' " this new clause would require private landlord to deal with hazard affect their property . new clause 11 — end blanket ban on rent to family with child or those in receipt of benefit — " the Secretary of State may , by regulation , specify behaviour which , for the purpose of Part 4 , Equality Act 2010 , shall be consider unlawful discrimination unless the contrary be show . " this new clause would ensure that blanket ban on rent to family with child or those in receipt of benefit be presume to be unlawful discrimination unless prove otherwise . new clause 12 — discrimination relate to care - leaver status — " ( 1 ) the provision of this section apply to individual who be — ( a ) a relevant child as define by section 23a of the Children ' s Act 1989 ; or ( b ) a former relevant child as define by section 23c of the Children ' s Act 1989 . ( 2 ) a relevant person must not , in relation to a dwelling that be to be let on a relevant tenancy — ( a ) on the basis that the individual meet either of the criterion set out in subsection ( 1 ) , prevent the person from — ( i ) enquire whether the dwelling be available for let , ( ii ) access information about the dwelling , ( iii ) view the dwelling in order to consider whether to seek to rent it , ( iv ) enter into a tenancy of the dwelling , or ( b ) apply a provision , criterion or practice in order to make care leaver less likely to enter into a tenancy of the dwelling than people who be not care leaver . ( 3 ) subsection ( 2 ) do not apply if the relevant person can show that the prospective landlord of the dwelling , or a person who would be a superior landlord in relation to the dwelling , be insure under a contract of insurance — ( a ) to which section 33 do not apply , and ( b ) which contain a term which make provision ( however express ) require the insure to prohibit a tenant under a relevant tenancy from be a care - leaver , and the conduct be a means of prevent the prospective landlord from breach that term . ( 4 ) conduct do not breach the prohibition in subsection ( 2 ) if it consist only of — ( a ) one or more of the follow thing do by a person who do nothing in relation to the dwelling that be not mention in this paragraph — ( i ) publish advertisement or disseminate information ; ( ii ) provide a mean by which a prospective landlord can communicate directly with a prospective tenant ; ( iii ) provide a mean by which a prospective tenant can communicate directly with a prospective landlord , or ( b ) thing of a description , or thing do by a person of a description , specify for the purpose of this section in regulation make by the Secretary of State . " new clause 37 — extension of rent repayment order — " ( 1 ) in section 40 ( 3 ) of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 , at end of table insert — 8 Housing Act 1988 Section 16d , 16e duty on landlord and agent as regard information provision and prohibition on relette 9 Renters ( Reform ) Act 2024 Sections 48 Landlord redress provision 10 Renters ( Reform ) Act 2024 section 69 active landlord database entry " . this new clause would ensure that rent repayment order can be make to the landlord under the relevant tenancy in any instance where a financial penalty or offence be make relate to clause 11 , 12 , 48 or 69 of the Bill . new clause 38 — continue ability of tenant to sublet — " ( 1 ) in any lease of residential property which be not by virtue of this Act an assure tenancy — ( a ) any provision which restrict sublet to assured shorthold tenancy shall be interpret to refer to assure tenancy ; and ( b ) any provision which would make the grant of an assure tenancy a breach of that provision shall be void unless — ( i ) that provision be an absolute prohibition against subletting ; or ( ii ) the lease have less than seven year unexpired . ( 2 ) any provision which require the consent of a landlord or other person to the grant of a subtenancy shall be interpret so that consent may not be refuse on the ground that the subtenancy be an assured tenancy or on the ground of any statutory provision of that tenancy . " this new clause seek to ensure that person who be tenant under a long lease can continue to sublet residential premise in circumstance where they be previously permit to do so under the long lease on the basis that the sublease be an assured shorthold tenancy . new clause 39 — payment of relocation payment to tenant — " in the Housing Act 1988 , after section 11 insert — ' 11a Payment of relocation payment in certain case ( 1 ) where a landlord issue a notice of proceeding for possession of a dwelling - house on any of the ground in Schedule 2 to this Act ( except ground 7a or ground 14 ) within two year of the start of the tenancy , the landlord shall pay a relocation payment to the tenant . ( 2 ) a relocation payment shall be an amount equivalent to — ( a ) one month ' s rent in the case of an order for possession on Ground 1 or ground 1a ; ( b ) two month ' rent in the case of an order for possession on any other ground . ( 3 ) the relocation payment shall be make no less than two week before the date specify in the notice of proceeding for possession . ' " this new clause would require landlord to pay a " relocation payment " to tenant when evict they from their property within two year of the start of the tenancy , except on the ground of crime and antisocial behaviour . new clause 40 — Guarantor to have no further liability follow death of tenant — " ( 1 ) subject to subsection ( 3 ) , a guarantee agreement relate to a relevant tenancy cease to have effect upon the death of a relevant tenant . ( 2 ) upon the death of a relevant tenant the guarantor in respect of a relevant tenancy shall incur no further liability in relation to matter arise under the tenancy . ( 3 ) nothing in this section shall affect the liability of a guarantor in relation to matter which arise before the date of the death of the relevant tenant . ( 4 ) in assess any liability under subsection ( 3 ) , account shall be take of any tenancy deposit pay in respect of the tenancy . ( 5 ) where there be more than one relevant tenant , this section shall apply only upon the death of both or all of the tenant . ( 6 ) in this section — ' guarantor ' mean a person who enter into a guarantee agreement in relation to a relevant tenancy ; ' guarantee agreement ' mean a contractual promise ( whether incorporate in or separate from the tenancy agreement ) to indemnify or compensate a relevant person in respect of an obligation under the tenancy if the tenant fail to perform or comply with the obligation ; ' relevant tenancy ' have the same meaning as in section 36 , and ' relevant tenant ' be to be interpret accordingly ; ' tenancy deposit ' have the same meaning as in section 212 ( 8 ) of the Housing Act 2004 . " this new clause would mean that guarantor in relation to a tenancy have no liability for future matter arise from the tenancy after the tenant have die . new clause 41 — prohibition of requirement for rent guarantor — " ( 1 ) a relevant person may not , in relation to a dwelling that be to be let on a relevant tenancy — ( a ) require the provision of a rental guarantor or an equivalent upfront payment ; ( b ) let the relevant tenancy on the basis of be offer a rental guarantor or an equivalent payment by a prospective tenant . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section , ' relevant person ' and ' relevant tenancy ' have the meaning give in section 36 of this Act . " this new clause would prohibit landlord from require prospective tenant to provide rent guarantor or equivalent upfront payment , and prohibit they from prioritise prospective tenant who offer they over those who do not . government amendment 200 to 205 and 57 . amendment 14 , in clause 3 , page 3 , leave out line 21 to 23 and insert — " 1 , 1a , 1b , 2 , 2za , 2ZB , 4A , 6 , 6a four month begin with the date of service of the notice 5 , 5a , 5b , 5c , 5D , 7 , 9 two month begin with the date of service of the notice " . government amendment 56 , 58 and 59 . amendment 15 , page 3 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a review of the change to ground for possession make under this Act within two year of the date of Royal Assent . " government amendment 206 . amendment 21 , in clause 6 , page 7 , line 4 , at end insert — " 13B Recovery of rent ( 1 ) any increase rent which be pay otherwise than in accordance with section 13 or section 13a be recoverable from the landlord by the tenant as a debt claim in the court . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may , by regulation , provide for such claim to be recoverable by proceeding in the First - Tier Tribunal , rather than the court . " this amendment would ensure that in instance where a private landlord increase the rent without issue a section 13 or section 13a notice the tenant can seek to recover cost through a debt claim in the court . it also provide the government with the power by regulation for such claim to be recoverable by tribunal . government amendment 207 . Amendment 261 , in clause 7 , page 8 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( c ) in paragraph ( c ) , at end insert — ' and , ( d ) that it be finance or part - finance by a means - test grant ' . " this amendment will prevent rent from be increase by a tribunal as a consequence of improvement to property that have be finance or part - finance by a means - test grant . amendment 22 , page 8 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) after subsection ( 8 ) insert — ' ( 8a ) where a notice under section 13 ( 2 ) have be refer to the appropriate tribunal then , unless the landlord and the tenant otherwise agree , the rent determine by the appropriate tribunal ( subject , in a case where subsection ( 5 ) above apply , to the addition of the appropriate amount in respect of rate ) shall be the same or below the rent specify in the section 13 notice and the rent as determine by the tribunal shall only become payable once the decision of the tribunal have become final . ( 8b ) a decision become final only on the late of — ( a ) the determination of any appeal ; ( b ) if early , on the expiry of the time for bring a subsequent appeal ( if any ) ; or ( c ) by its be abandon or otherwise cease to have effect . ' " this amendment would ensure that where a rent assessment be carry out by a tribunal , the rent subsequently determine by that tribunal can not be high than that originally request by a landlord in a section 13 notice . amendment 13 , page 8 , line 20 , at end insert — " ( c ) no more than the rent propose by the landlord in the notice serve on the tenant under section 13 of the 1988 Act . " this amendment would mean that the rent payable after a tribunal determination can be no high than the rent initially propose by the landlord in the notice serve on the tenant . amendment 23 , page 9 , line 5 , at end insert " which must be no early than two month follow the date of determination " . this amendment would ensure that in case of undue hardship tenant would have a minimum of two month from the date of determination before a new rent become payable . amendment 24 , page 9 , line 6 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) and insert — " ( 4A ) a date specify under subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) must be no early than the date on which the determination become final , with a decision only become final on the late of — ( a ) the determination of any appeal ; ( b ) if early , on the expiry of the time for bring a subsequent appeal ( if any ) ; or ( c ) by its be abandon or otherwise cease to have effect . " this amendment would remove the requirement for a date determine by a court for rent to become payable in case of undue hardship to not be later than the date of the determination . amendment 31 , in clause 9 , page 9 , line 29 , leave out " 42nd " and insert " 28th " . this amendment would ensure a landlord give or refuse consent in writing within 28 day of the request be make . Amendment 32 , page 9 , line 30 , at and insert — " ( d ) the landlord may not review or withdraw consent once give . " this amendment ensure that a tenant may keep a pet for the duration of their tenancy once consent have be give . government amendment 60 , 208 , 61 , 209 , 63 , 210 , 62 and 211 . amendment 38 , in clause 12 , page 14 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( g ) unreasonably refuse home adaptation for the purpose of a disabled person ' s access to or usage of the home . " amendment 11 , page 14 , line 21 , after " dwelling - house " insert " or the short - term let or holiday let " . this amendment would clarify that a landlord can not let a property as a short - term or holiday let for at least three month after take ownership of the property for the purpose of they or their family occupy it . government amendment 64 . amendment 1 , page 14 , line 26 , after " dwelling - house " insert " or the short - term let or holiday let " . this amendment would clarify that a landlord can not let a property as a short - term or holiday let for at least three month after take ownership of the property for the purpose of they or their family occupy it . government amendment 65 . amendment 2 , page 14 , line 28 , after " dwelling - house " insert " or the short - term let or holiday let " . this amendment would clarify that a landlord can not let a property as a short - term or holiday let for at least three month after take ownership of the property for the purpose of they or their family occupy it . government amendment 66 , 67 and 212 . amendment 3 , page 15 , line 15 , leave out " three " and insert " six " . this amendment would increase the time which must elapse between a landlord take ownership of a property for the purpose of they or their family occupy it and make the property available to rent from three month to six month . amendment 35 , page 15 , line 15 , leave out " three " and insert " twelve " . this amendment would extend the restricted period in relation to a tenancy in relation to which ground 1 or 1a in Schedule 2 be rely on from three to twelve month . amendment 36 , page 15 , line 17 , leave out subsection ( b ) . this amendment would ensure that the restricted period be as specify in ( 8 ) ( a ) in all circumstance . government amendment 68 to 75 , 213 , 214 , 195 , 215 to 217 and 76 . amendment 6 , in clause 17 , page 25 , line 18 , after " give " insert " not early than four month after a tenant first occupy the premise and " . this amendment would mean that tenant can not give notice to quit until they have reside in the property for at least four month . government amendment 77 to 80 , 218 to 220 and 81 to 85 . amendment 43 , in clause 29 , page 32 , line 23 , leave out " section 27 or 28 " and insert " section 27 , 28 or [ discrimination relate to care - leaver status ] " . amendment 44 , in clause 30 , page 34 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) a term of a relevant tenancy or regulated tenancy be of no effect so far as the term make provision ( however express ) prohibit the tenant from be — ( a ) a relevant child as define by section 23a of the Children ' s Act 1989 ; or ( b ) a former relevant child as define by section 23c of the Children ' s Act 1989 . ( 6 ) subsection ( 5 ) do not apply if the landlord or a superior landlord be insure under a contract of insurance — ( a ) to which section 33 do not apply , and ( b ) which contain a term which make provision ( however express ) require the insure to prohibit the tenant from be a relevant or former relevant child . and the provision in the tenancy be a means of prevent the insure from breach that term . " Amendment 45 , in clause 31 , page 35 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) a term of a lease of premise that consist of or include a dwelling be of no effect so far as the term make provision ( however express ) require a tenant under that or any inferior lease to prohibit a sub - tenant under a relevant tenancy or regulated tenancy from prohibit the tenant from be — ( a ) a relevant child as define by section 23a of the Children ' s Act 1989 ; or ( b ) a former relevant child as define by section 23c of the Children ' s Act 1989 . ( 4b ) subsection ( 4A ) do not apply if the landlord under the lease or a superior landlord be insure under a contract of insurance — ( a ) to which section 33 do not apply , and ( b ) which contain a term which make provision ( however express ) require the insure to prohibit a sub - tenant from be a relevant or former relevant child . and the provision in the lease be a means of prevent the insure from breach that term . " Amendment 46 , in clause 32 , page 35 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) a term of a mortgage of premise that consist of or include a dwelling be of no effect so far as the term make provision ( however express ) require a mortgagor to prohibit a tenant under a relevant tenancy or regulated tenancy from be — ( a ) a relevant child as define by section 23a of the Children ' s Act 1989 ; or ( b ) a former relevant child as define by section 23c of the Children ' s Act 1989 . " Amendment 47 , in clause 33 , page 36 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) a term of a contract of insurance to which this section apply be of no effect so far as the term make provision ( however express ) require the insure to prohibit a tenant under a relevant tenancy or regulated tenancy from be — ( a ) a relevant child as define by section 23a of the Children ' s Act 1989 ; or ( b ) a former relevant child as define by section 23c of the Children ' s Act 1989 . " government amendment 86 to 113 , 115 and 116 . government motion to transfer clause 40 . government amendment 117 and 118 . amendment 39 , in clause 42 , page 54 , line 1 , after " section 1 " insert — " ( a ) omit subsection ( 3 ) ; ( b ) in subsection ( 3A ) omit ' the landlord of a residential occupier or an agent of the landlord ' and insert ' a person ' ; ( c ) after subsection ( 3b ) insert — ' ( 3ba ) for the purpose of this subsection , service which be reasonably require for the occupation of the premise as a household include , but be not limit to — ( a ) water , ( b ) gas , ( c ) electricity , and ( d ) electronic communication network and service ' ; ( d ) omit subsection ( 3c ) ; ( e ) " . this amendment would amend the offence of unlawful eviction and harassment of the occupier of a property under the Protection from Eviction Act 1977 so that the offence can be commit by any person ( not just the landlord of their agent ) , and define the service with which interference can constitute an offence . amendment 40 , page 55 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) in section 3a , after subsection ( 9 ) insert — ' ( 10 ) in any proceeding under any of the relevant statutory provision in this Act , it shall be for the accuse to prove that the tenancy or licence be exclude by virtue of subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) above . ' ( 3b ) after section 4 insert — ' 4A rebuttable presumption of landlord ( 1 ) in any action under Part 1 of this Act ( include where a Financial Penalty Notice ( FPN ) be issue ) there be a rebuttable presumption that the person to whom the residential occupier pay rent or other payment in respect of occupation of a dwelling be the landlord of the property . ' ( 3c ) after section 7 insert — ' 7a Notification by the police ( 1 ) where a constable have reasonable cause to believe that an offence under the Protection from Eviction Act 1977 have occur the constable must within 24 hour notify the authority name in section 6 as responsible for prosecution of offence in the area with the follow information — ( a ) the address where the alleged offence have happen ; ( b ) if know , the name of the landlord ; ( c ) if know , the name of the residential occupier ; ( d ) any fact know to the constable about the alleged offence . ( 2 ) a police force have the power to assist an authority include in section 6 in the exercise of their function under this Act . ' " this amendment would amend proceeding for offence under the Protection from Eviction Act 1977 , so that it must be prove that a tenancy be an exclude tenancy , that there be a rebuttable presumption that the person to whom a tenant pay their rent be the landlord , and that the police must inform the relevant local authority when they suspect offence under the 1977 Act to have be commit . government amendment 119 to 121 . amendment 4 , in clause 45 , page 59 , line 36 , after " landlord " insert " who be not otherwise a member of an independent redress scheme approve by the Secretary of State . " this amendment would only require a residential landlord to be a member of the landlord redress scheme introduce by clause 45 if they be not already a member of another independent redress scheme which have be approve by the Secretary of State . government amendment 122 to 134 . Amendment 27 , in clause 53 , page 67 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( ba ) detail , which may include copy , of all notice seek possession serve by the residential landlord in respect of each dwelling of which he be the landlord , and " . this amendment would require the database to record detail of notice of possession serve by a landlord in respect of each dwelling of which they be the landlord . amendment 42 , in clause 55 , page 68 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( ba ) require the provision of information about the accessibility of the dwelling , " . amendment 12 , page 68 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) must require — ( a ) the energy performance certificate relate to a registrable dwelling to be provide to the database operator ; and ( b ) detail of the energy performance certificate to be record in a dwelling entry in the database . " this amendment would require Energy Performance Certificates in relation to relevant dwelling to be provide to the database operator and detail to be record in the database . government amendment 135 to 137 . amendment 37 , in clause 76 , page 84 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( e ) any accommodation which be provide by the Defence Infrastructure Organisation to service individual and family . " this amendment would ensure that accommodation rent from the Defence Infrastructure Organisation by service individual and family be subject to the Decent Homes Standard . amendment 7 , page 85 , line 26 , leave out clause 78 . amendment 41 , in clause 78 , page 86 , line 4 , after " ( order ) , " insert — " ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , before ' the first - tier Tribunal ' insert ' apart from offence for which subsection ( 1A ) apply , ' ; ( b ) after subsection ( 1 ) insert — ' ( 1A ) the first - tier Tribunal may make a rent repayment order if satisfied on the balance of probability that the landlord have commit an offence under section 1 ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) or ( 3A ) of the Protection from Eviction Act 1977 ( whether or not the landlord have be convict ) . ' ; ( c ) at the end of subsection ( 3 ) insert — ' ( d ) section 46a ( where an order be make against more than one landlord or there have be a previous order ) ' ; ( d ) " . this amendment would lower the level of proof require in proceeding for a Rent Repayment Order in the first - tier Tribunal to the balance of probability for offence under the 1977 Act . government amendment 196 , 138 and 139 , 197 , 140 to 144 , 221 , 145 and 146 , 222 and 147 to 151 . amendment 8 , in clause 116 , page 111 , line 19 , leave out " subsection ( 2 ) " and insert " subsection ( 1A ) and ( 2 ) " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 9 . amendment 28 , page 111 , line 19 , at end insert " , save that section 2 ( b ) come into force on the day on which this Act be pass only to the extent that it repeal section 21 of the Housing Act 1988 ; such repeal will not affect the validity of any notice serve under that provision on or before the day on which this Act be pass and the provision of that section will continue to apply to any claim issue in respect of such a notice " . this amendment would ensure that the abolition of section 21 eviction would come into force on Royal Assent , with save provision for any notice serve before that date . amendment 9 , page 111 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) prior to lay regulation under subsection ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must commission and publish a review into the operation of residential possession proceeding in the County Courts use by residential landlord and tenant and the enforcement of possession order . " this amendment would require the Secretary of State to publish a review of the operation of residential possession proceeding before determine the commencement date for the provision of chapter 1 of Part 1 . government amendment 152 to 157 . government new schedule 1 — amendment in connection with landlord redress scheme . government amendment 223 . amendment 48 , in schedule 1 , page 114 , line 10 , leave out " 6 month " and insert " one year " . amendment 255 , page 114 , line 10 , leave out " 6 month " and insert " 2 year " . amendment 255 and 256 would prohibit eviction under ground 1 and 1a within two year of the beginning of a tenancy . government amendment 224 . amendment 49 , page 115 , line 8 , leave out " 6 month " and insert " one year " . amendment 256 , page 115 , line 8 , leave out " 6 month " and insert " 2 year " . amendment 255 and 256 would prohibit eviction under ground 1 and 1a within two year of the beginning of a tenancy . government amendment 225 . amendment 33 , page 115 , line 32 , leave out sub - paragraph ( a ) and insert — " ( a ) the landlord who be seek possession intend to — ( i ) sell a freehold or leasehold interest in the dwelling - house or to grant a lease of the dwelling - house for a term certain of more than 21 year which be not terminable before the end of that term by notice give by or to the landlord ; ( ii ) re - let the dwelling house to another tenant pursuant to a Rent to Buy Agreement ; or ( iii ) retain and convert the home to rent housing on either an affordable or market rent basis ; " . this amendment cover the full scope of reason that private register provider of social housing may wish to use the new ground for possession 1b for to offer property to another tenant . government amendment 158 . Amendment 34 , page 116 , line 12 , leave out sub - paragraph ( b ) and insert — " ( b ) allow the tenant to rent the dwelling house for a period state in the agreement , which be not less than 5 year or , for dwell house in Greater London , 10 year from the beginning of the tenancy so as to enable the tenant to save for a deposit and , over time , purchase their first home . " this amendment would ensure the wording for the definition of " rent to Buy Agreement " at sub - paragraph ( b ) be an accurate reflection of the Rent to buy product and be in line with the Capital Funding Guide . amendment 29 , page 116 , line 29 , after " tenancy " insert " ( include any tenancy at will or other tenancy arise on expiry of a fix - term lease ) " . this amendment would extend Ground 2ZA to apply in a situation where a tenancy at will may arise . government amendment 159 and 160 . amendment 30 , page 117 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( c ) where the intermediate landlord serve notice under this Ground , the intermediate landlord shall be deem to continue to hold sufficient interest in the dwelling - house to maintain a continue right to possession until conclusion of any possession proceeding . " this amendment would ensure that an intermediate landlord retain possession of the property and remain as the landlord of the occupy tenant until the conclusion of possession proceeding . government amendment 161 , 163 and 164 , and 226 . amendment 5 , page 118 , line 4 , after " HMO " insert " or be occupy by one or two student " . this amendment would mean that the ground for possession for student property could also be use for property occupy by just one or two student , which would not otherwise be consider as HMOs . government amendment 227 to 229 . amendment 260 , page 118 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( can ) the tenancy agreement be not sign early than March of the year in which the tenancy commence . " this amendment would end the pressure for joint tenancy to be sign too early in the academic year , commit student to accommodation before they be ready . government amendment 165 to 174 , 230 , 175 and 231 to 234 . amendment 52 , page 122 , line 34 , leave out " of an intention " and insert — " that the landlord may intend " . amendment 53 , page 122 , line 35 , at end insert — " or the Court be of the opinion that it be just and equitable to dispose of the requirement to serve a write statement . " Amendment 50 , page 123 , line 3 , leave out line 3 to 9 . amendment 51 , page 125 , line 13 , at end insert — " ground 6aa a relevant social landlord grant a tenancy of the dwelling house to the tenant as temporary decant accommodation in order to demolish their original home in the context of re - development and the landlord seek possession require vacant possession of the dwelling house because — ( a ) the landlord have serve the tenant with notice that the new home be ready to move into , or ( b ) the temporary use of the accommodation have otherwise come to an end . " Amendment 16 , page 125 , leave out line 17 . this amendment would retain the exist 12 - month period within which the landlord can initiate proceeding on this ground for possession . Amendment 55 , page 125 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( ab ) at the end of the second unnumbered paragraph , insert — ' this ground apply only where the landlord be a private register provider of social housing . ' " Amendment 17 , page 125 , line 18 , at end insert — " ( c ) at the end of the last unnumbered paragraph insert — ' this ground apply only where the landlord be a private register provider of social housing . ' " this amendment would limit the use of Ground 7 of Schedule 2 of the 1988 Act to social rent housing . amendment 18 , page 125 , line 30 , leave out paragraph 23 . this amendment would remove the new ground for possession for repeat rent arrear . amendment 19 , page 125 , line 30 , leave out " after ground 8 " and insert " before ground 9 " . this amendment would move new ground 8a from the list of mandatory ground for possession ( in Part I of Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1988 ) to the list of discretionary ground for possession ( in Part II of Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1988 ) . amendment 257 , page 126 , line 12 , at end insert — " 23a in Ground 12 , after ' performed ' insert ' provide that failure to carry out this obligation could — ( a ) be reasonably expect to have a material adverse effect on the safety , health , or life of any resident in that property or adjoining property ; or ( b ) cause material damage to the property not contemplate in any form of property safety deposit scheme relate to the tenancy . ' " this amendment would amend Ground 12 ( possession due to failure to carry out an obligation of the tenancy ) so that a tenant can not be evict if the obligation do not pose serious risk to the wellbeing of the tenant or the property ( such as put a poster in a window or put washing on display ) . amendment 20 , page 126 , line 14 , leave out paragraph 24 . this amendment would maintain the exist definition of anti - social behaviour as be conduct cause or likely to cause a nuisance or annoyance , rather than be define as behaviour " capable of cause " nuisance or annoyance . government amendment 235 and 236 , 176 and 177 , 237 , 178 to 181 , 238 , 182 to 184 , 245 , 258 , 246 and 247 , 198 and 248 to 253 . Amendment 25 , in schedule 2 , page 128 , line 29 , leave out " omit subsection ( 5 ) " and insert " for subsection ( 5 ) substitute — ( 5 ) a person be also threaten with homelessness if — ( a ) a valid notice have be give to the person under section 8 of the Housing Act 1988 in respect of the only accommodation the person have that be available for the person ' s occupation , and ( b ) that notice will expire within 56 day . " this amendment would maintain the homelessness prevention duty owe by local authority to person who have receive a notice to vacate a property and would extend it to notice for possession issue under section 8 of the Housing Act 1988 . government amendment 239 . amendment 26 , page 129 , line 1 , leave out " omit subsection ( 6 ) " and insert " for subsection ( 6 ) substitute — ( 6 ) but the authority may not give notice to the applicant under subsection ( 5 ) on the basis that the circumstance in subsection ( 8 ) ( b ) apply if a valid notice have be give to the applicant under section 8 of the Housing Act 1988 that — ( a ) will expire within 56 day or have expire , and ( b ) be in respect of the only accommodation that be available for the applicant ' s occupation . " this amendment would ensure that the homelessness prevention duty owe by a local authority can not end whilst a valid notice under section 8 of the Housing Act 1988 have be issue in respect of the only accommodation available to that person . government amendment 240 , 254 , 259 , 185 , 241 , 186 , 242 , 187 , 199 , 243 , 188 to 192 , 244 and 194 . I be delighted to bring the Renters ( Reform ) Bill back to the House on Report . I express my gratitude to member across the House for their contribution on Second Reading and in Committee , and for their continue engagement throughout . I thank my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) , whose parliamentary private Secretary I have the privilege of be as he steer the White Paper , and my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , whose Whip I have the privilege of be as she steer the Bill on Second Reading . I have see the Bill at every stage of its formation , and I can say to the House that the Bill we be discuss today would not have be possible without their hard work and dedication . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) and for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for their constructive engagement and commitment to see the Bill deliver , so that its benefit can be realise . the Bill will create a fair private rent sector for both landlord and tenant , deliver on the Government ' s 2019 manifesto commitment . the Bill bring in the most significant reform for the sector in over 30 year . it will abolish section 21 of the Housing Act 1988 and bring in new decency standard , give England ' s 11 million tenant more certainty of secure and healthy home . it will mean that tenant will be support to hold down job in their local area , child to stay in the same school , and household to put down root in their community . alongside abolish section 21 , we be strengthen and expand landlord possession ground , include strong protection against antisocial behaviour . combine with our reform to ensure a modern court system , that will ensure that landlord retain confidence in get back their property when they need to , safeguard their investment . the new private rent sector ombudsman will resolve tenant ' dispute and support landlord in handle complaint effectively . that will help to avoid disagreement escalate unnecessarily to the court , save both landlord and tenant time and money . our new property portal will make landlord ' responsibility clear in one place and support tenant to make more informed choice . we be also provide strong protection for renter with pet , recognise the joy that pet can bring . however , the Bill must strike a balance between deliver that security for tenant and fairness to landlord . this morning , the Secretary of State have the brass neck to suggest that to keep his promise to outlaw no - fault eviction before the next election it be now down to the House of Lords to get on with it . will the Minister tell we which be more disingenuous : the five year we have be wait for the Government to keep their promise , or the blatant concession to the significant number of conservative mp who be landlord , who have be gift what amount to an indefinite delay to the ban on no - fault eviction ? as I say , we introduce the White Paper in 2022 . we publish the Bill just last year in 2023 , and we be take it forward today to abolish section 21 . she talk about Conservative Members . I can tell she — she will not read this in the newspaper — that I have be lobby by member on both side of this House to ensure that the reform work effectively . that be what the change that we be make today on Report will do . they will bring balance to the Bill , deliver security for tenant and , as I say , fairness to landlord . the amendment will ensure that the new tenancy system work effectively . since the Government promise to outlaw section 21 eviction in 2019 , more than 2 , 000 people in Enfield have be subject to no - fault eviction , cost the council million of pound to rehouse they . the Minister talk about fairness to landlord , but do he recognise the cost to renter , and indeed to local authority through temporary accommodation ? I absolutely accept that there be a cost . what I would say be that a system that do not work for landlord will not benefit tenant , and a system that do not benefit tenant will not benefit landlord in the long run either . we have to find a balance in the Bill . that be what our amendment will deliver . the amendment we introduce in Committee include expand the range of factor that a judge must consider when evict antisocial tenant , provide strong protection for landlord and neighbourhood against unacceptable behaviour . we also add a new ground for possession to protect the functioning of the student market and ensure that student ' landlord can continue to evict in line with the academic year . turn to housing quality , although the vast majority of landlord provide warm and decent home , some fall short of that standard . it be unacceptable for any tenant to live in damp , cold or dangerous housing . for that reason , we introduce measure in Committee to apply and enforce a decent home standard in the private rent sector for the first time . that new standard , which we be design with landlord and tenant group , will be set out in secondary legislation . we also introduce measure to outlaw deeply unfair blanket ban on rent to those with child or those in receipt of benefit in England and Wales . those practice have no place in a fair and modern housing market . will the Minister assure we that proper energy efficiency standard will be contain in the decent home standard ? otherwise , tenant will still be live in damp and cold home because they will be unable to afford to heat they . I commit to work with the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , and indeed with all member of the House , to ensure that the decent home standard provide for decent home of the kind that he describe . this be the first time we have apply the decent home standard to the private rented sector , and we have to get it right . in order to target the minority of unscrupulous landlord , in Committee we also give strong power to local council , and we strengthen rent repayment order . that will help to ensure effective and proportionate enforcement of the new system . let I turn to the Government amendment that we have table on Report . they respond to concern from member , constituent , and tenant and landlord group , ensure security for tenant while give confidence to good landlord and support the private rent market . several member from across the House have play a direct role in help we to ensure that the Bill work as effectively as possible for all those who live and work in the private rent sector . I of course include in that my hon . friend the Members for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) and for Northampton South ( Andrew Lewer ) for their continue engagement and constructive dialogue on the measure in the Bill . I be listen to the Minister carefully . from his contribution , we would not think that there be any controversy at all about the position we have get to with the legislation . if everything be so wonderful , why have all the key housing charity and organisation in the field withdraw their support for the Government ? they have not withdraw their support . I accept their disappointment with some of the amendment table on Report , but they have also endorse some of they , include one that I know be very close to the hon . Lady ' s heart in relation to expand the homelessness prevention duty , which have the support of organisation such as Crisis , the homelessness charity . we will continue to work with everyone across the sector to ensure that the Bill be effective when it go to the other place . turn to the amendment , I will address they thematically , start with our tenancy reform measure . government new clause 15 will ensure that a tenant ' s notice to quit can not expire within the first six month of the tenancy unless the landlord have agree that it can expire soon , thus increase the amount of time a tenant must remain in a property at the start of the tenancy from two to six month . the change ensure that landlord be able to recover the cost of replace tenant and will prevent tenant from use prs property as short - term or holiday let . once the six - month initial period of commitment have end , the tenancy will continue as a normal periodic tenancy , so after the six - month period tenant will need to give only two month ' notice . that ensure that tenant will retain the flexibility to end tenancy when their circumstance change or when a landlord do not fulfil their responsibility . this measure strike the right balance between provide landlord with the confidence they need to operate within the prs and ensure a fair , simple tenancy system . in addition , the Government be explore potential exemption to the rule , such as the death of a tenant , domestic abuse or significant hazard within the property . today I meet the Domestic Abuse Housing Alliance to reaffirm our intention on the exemption and make clear that victim of domestic violence will be well protect by these reform . government amendment 239 and 240 , which I have just mention to the hon . member for Westminster North ( Ms Buck ) , will give tenant certainty that the homelessness prevention duty will be owe when a valid section 8 notice be serve . I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) for his contribution on this topic , ensure that his landmark Homelessness Reduction Act 2017 continue to be effective . the prevention duty will apply where the date specify in the notice be within 56 day and the duty may not be end simply because the 56 day have pass . this mean that household can continue to receive support while the threat of homelessness remain . mindful that that will broaden the scope of the prevention duty , we will carry out a new burden assessment and provide funding for local authority for any additional cost . alongside expand the homelessness prevention duty , let I take this opportunity to restate our position on another important issue . the statutory homelessness code of guidance , which local authority must have regard to , state that authority should not consider it reasonable for a homeless applicant to remain in the property until a court issue a bailiff warrant or writ to enforce a possession order . we have hear anecdotal evidence that some local authority be encourage tenant on a blanket basis to remain in a property until the bailiff be at the door . that be wrong . do so create further delay in possession , penalise landlord , who have a legal right to their property , can be stressful for the tenant and , in the long run , be not beneficial for they at all . the guidance be clear on the importance of early prevention : authority should contact landlord at an early stage to understand the circumstance of an eviction and establish what step can be take to prevent homelessness . the Government be also work to ensure that family can move out of temporary accommodation and into stable accommodation , as well as reduce the need for temporary accommodation by prevent homelessness before it occur in the first place . that be why we be invest more than £ 1 . 2 billion in the homelessness prevention grant over the next three year , include a £ 129 million top - up for the homelessness prevention grant for 2024 - 25 , as part of an unprecedented £ 2 . 4 billion to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping . it be expect , furthermore , that the £ 1 . 2 billion local housing fund will enable council in England to obtain well - quality temporary accommodation for those owe a homelessness duty , provide a last affordable asset . it be expect to provide around 7 , 000 home by 2026 , to ease local homelessness pressure , reduce spending on unsuitable bed and breakfast accommodation and provide safe and sustainable housing for local community . government amendment 64 to 75 extend the restriction on re - let and market a property follow the use of the moving in and sell ground to cover licence to occupy as well as tenancy . this will mean that landlord and people act on their behalf , such as let agent , will be prohibit from let or market a property as a short - term or holiday let follow the use of those grant . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Devon ( Selaine Saxby ) and the hon . member for North Shropshire for raise this matter in Committee . the change close a loophole in the no re - let period and help to ensure that the balance between long - term and short - term let remain stable . I turn now to Government amendment to the possession grant , start with the student market — I know this be an issue close to the heart of my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Jane Hunt ) . as I have say , in Committee the Government introduce a new ground for evict full - time student , to maintain a yearly churn of student housing . since introduce that ground , we have hear concern that the ground would not apply when student be live in small property or in house of multiple occupation on individual contract . government amendment 226 to 228 expand the circumstance in which the student ground can be use . landlord will be able to ensure that property rent to student , whether they be live individually , in pair or in large share housing , will be vacate in the summer , as long as all the tenant on the tenancy agreement be student . to protect tenant , we have strengthen the requirement for landlord to provide notice to the tenant at the outset of the tenancy that the ground may be use to evict they . possession will not be possible use this ground unless write notice have be give by the landlord at the beginning of the tenancy . government amendment 158 will extend ground 1b to allow social landlord to re - let their property to a different tenant on rent - to - buy term , protect the supply of such property . the grant will be available only after the sit tenant ' s discount rent period have end and they have be offer the chance to purchase the property . I thank the National Housing Federation for raise this issue . government amendment 175 and 184 insert a new possession ground 5H into schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1988 , which will allow private register provider of social housing and charity to continue to operate scheme sometimes know as stepping - stone accommodation . we be keen to support those scheme , which help those who have struggle to access the private rented sector , and I be grateful to Centrepoint and the Mayor of the West Midlands , Andy Street , for draw that point to my attention . I thank Andy Street for all he be do to support such organisation . government amendment 198 and 199 and new clause 29 serve to replicate an exist mechanism that allow landlord of qualify agricultural worker to provide assure shorthold tenancy rather than more secure assure agricultural occupancy . the amendment be the main ask of the Country Land and Business Association and be vital to maintain the supply of home for rural worker by protect the status quo . it will ensure that opt - out agricultural occupancy under the old system will continue to be opt out when they transition to the new tenancy system . leaseholder have raise the issue that many leaseholder agreement restrict sub - letting on assure shorthold and fix - term tenancy . amendment include Government amendment 160 to 164 and new clause 13 will address that ask by ensure that sub - lease make under those agreement can continue unabated under the new tenancy system and that new agreement can be make if they be previously permit . we have draft the provision very carefully to ensure that superior landlord and leaseholder have correspond right and responsibility , as they do under the previous system . government new clause 18 to 24 extend to Scotland the provision outlaw blanket ban on let to tenant in receipt of benefit or with child , in consultation with the Scottish Government . they do so in a broadly similar way to those in England and Wales , with adjustment to align with the scottish enforcement framework , demonstrate a cross - nation commitment to tackle discrimination in the private rent sector . in part 2 of the Bill we have make technical amendment to our redress clause , include ensure that the PRS landlord ombudsman can co - operate with other dispute resolution service . the amendment will ensure that the ombudsman operate effectively . although no final decision on the ombudsman provider have be make , our amendment would also allow the housing ombudsman service to effectively administer private landlord redress alongside social redress . a key driver in have a single ombudsman to resolve private landlord - tenant dispute be make the service simple to use . I reiterate to hon . member that the Government be absolutely committed to minimise cost and streamline new requirement for landlord . our ambition be that fee for the PRS landlord ombudsman will be low cost and will represent value for money for landlord , similar to those for the housing ombudsman , where membership cost for social landlord be just £ 5 . 75 per unit in 2023 - 24 . I also reaffirm our commitment to align the ombudsman and property portal , with the ambition be that landlord will need to input their detail only once in order to be compliant with both service . let I turn to enforcement of the new system . we introduce measure in Committee to ensure that all landlord involve in criminal rent - to - rent arrangement can be hold to account , include superior landlord where they be aware of illegal activity . government new clause 32 ensure that superior landlord be liable for the Housing Act 2004 offence of fail to hold the correct licence for a property . government new clause 33 seek to ensure that landlord and superior landlord can , where appropriate , be serve with improvement notice require the removal of hazard . those change close loophole , ensure that local council can continue to hold the correct landlord to account to ensure that their property be safe and well manage . clearly , it be important that superior landlord who could not have reasonably know that the property be be let as a house of multiple occupation be protect against be penalise for the failure to license . government new clause 32 provide additional defence to ensure that that be the case . indeed , as be already the case , the criminal standard of proof would need to be meet for any landlord to be convict or subject to a fine or rent repayment order for such an offence . finally , I will talk through the measure that we be add to the Bill to ensure that it be implement effectively — again , I acknowledge the contribution of other member , give voice by my hon . friend the Member for Totnes — so that these reform deliver for all and avoid unintended consequence . we have be clear that section 21 of the Housing Act 1988 will be abolish when we be confident that the county court system be ready , and we be take significant step to ensure that it be . we have invest £ 1 . 2 million for his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service to deliver a new end - to - end online possession process . the Government accept that we need to assess the operation of the county court possession process as we deliver our tenancy reform . an efficient court system be critical to ensure there be confidence in the new tenancy system . government new clause 30 therefore require the Lord Chancellor to prepare an assessment of the operation of possession proceeding for rented property , and for that assessment to be publish before section 21 can be abolish for exist tenancy . if the Government be put all that money in and do all this planning , why can the Minister still not give we a date for when it will happen ? as I have just say , we have always be clear that we will abolish section 21 when we be confident that the county court system be ready . I can not give the hon . Gentleman a date today because I can not say until we be confident that the county court system be ready , but as I have say , we be invest £ 1 . 2 million for HM Courts and Tribunals Service to deliver the new process . it be important for he to recognise that if the court system be not ready when we make this change — the big change in 30 year — it will not benefit tenant . it will not benefit landlord , but it will certainly not benefit tenant . I welcome new clause 30 , because the reality be that county court be already under very great pressure indeed . however , carry out the assessment will itself bring a cost and , of course , Ministry of Justice budget be already strained . what step will be take to support the Ministry of Justice and the Lord Chancellor with the cost of carry out that important assessment ? my hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right . we have commit to make the assessment , so we will ensure that the relevant funding be in place . I have say that we have invest £ 1 . 2 million for HM Courts and Tribunals Service to deliver a new end - to - end online possession process , but I be pleased also to confirm to he today that we be invest a furth £ 11 million this financial year to deliver a new digital system . the Minister have try to blame the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee for this delay by say that we note that there be a problem in the court , which would need to be ready to deal with the extra work cause by the abolition of section 21 . however , the Government have have five year to sort the court out and get they work properly . surely that have be plan for right from the last election . on the Select Committee ask for improvement to the court , I just point out that we ask for a specialist housing court — a bit like a small claim court — that could process thing more quickly . we do not ask for that in our report last year ; we ask for it in 2018 , and the Government reject it . I think I have be quite clear that it be important that we see that the court be ready for these reform . the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , be here on the Front Bench with I . he and the MOJ be work at pace to ensure that the court be ready for the reform we be introduce . the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) ask about a specialist housing court . we do not believe that that be the good way to improve the court process for possession — a view share by the judiciary who respond to our call for evidence . the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , rightly say that this should have happen five year ago , but I gently say that in those five year we have have the coronavirus pandemic , which be the main thing that have slow down the process of improve the court . I strongly encourage the Minister not to rush into do this prematurely , because it would benefit neither tenant nor landlord if he do . I do not think that it will surprise you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to learn that I entirely agree with my hon . friend , whom I thank for make those point . government new clause 30 will enable the Government to assess the effect that our new tenancy system be have on county court before our reform be roll out more widely , give we confidence that the sector be ready . I be happy to share with colleague that we be explore whether serious eviction case , such as for antisocial behaviour , can be prioritise in court listing . we will consult on option follow Royal Assent . I recently meet Rentstart , a homelessness organisation with a great track record of work with landlord and get the homeless into rent accommodation . it be slightly concerned that the change might undermine its relationship with landlord , which it use to facilitate the finding of home for many vulnerable constituent and other people who have come into the constituency . in relation to the assessment that new clause 30 would bring about , what reassurance can the Minister give such organisation ? the assessment be there purely to determine the timeliness of possession proceeding . in addition , we must acknowledge that there be other barrier to possession , such as the role of local authority and bailiff in the process . I hope that that be what the assessment be able to draw out . on Rentstart in my right hon . friend ' s constituency , I do not believe that our reform will affect its relationship with landlord , but I be more than happy to meet he and Rentstart to understand its concern more clearly and see if we can do anything to address they . government new clause 35 require the Government to arrange for a review of the new tenancy system , in particular the impact of remove fix term and the operation of ground for possession . that review will be carry out by an independent person , who will produce a report of their finding . the new clause require the Government to lay the report before Parliament within 18 month of the early date on which the new tenancy system be apply to exist tenancy . we recognise that remove fix term be a significant change for the sector , and the review will explicitly consider the impact of the change . it will also consider how comprehensive and fair the reform ground for possession be , as well as the extent to which they be operate effectively , so that all party can have confidence in they . as I have say , the new tenancy system be a huge change for the sector — the big in 30 year — and it be right that we commit in legislation to review its impact and implementation , and that we consider whether change be need base on real - world evidence . that will ensure that the system work as well as possible for all party in the long term . I have mention several time in debate , and in a useful meeting that I have with the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the hon . member for Kensington ( Felicity Buchan ) , who be here , that there be a need to amend the Protection from Eviction Act 1977 at the same time , because there be a danger that frustrated rogue landlord will refer back to that legislation , which be very badly understand and not well enforce by the police and local authority . will the Minister say a few thing about that ? I be more than happy to address those point before the end of the debate , but I think that I have write to the hon . Lady about they . if I have not , I will ensure that I do in order to be clear about the amendment she have table . government new clause 36 place a duty on the Secretary of State to produce an annual report to Parliament on the stock of residential tenancy in the private rent sector . that report will need to be provide in the five year after the Bill receive Royal Assent . report under that duty would cover , but not be limit to , an analysis of the number , location and size of private rent sector property . the new clause ensure that regular analysis of such information be available for scrutiny and debate . I be aware that several member have raise concern about the interaction between the property portal and the role of selective licensing . the two system have separate , distinct purpose : the portal will gather datum on private rent sector ownership and property standard in England , provide an information source for local authority to have oversight of the whole private rent sector in their area . it will help landlord to understand their legal obligation and will give tenant the information they need to make informed choice . meanwhile , selective licensing provide local housing authority with the power to license privately rent property within a designate area to address specific local issue , include poor housing condition and high level of antisocial behaviour or crime . while there will be overlap with datum gather through the portal , the information require for licence in these area will be specific to the issue be tackle and will support more intensive enforcement action in the area that need it most . we do not want to see selective licensing abolish , but we do want to ensure that our reform be streamline and that burden be minimise for landlord and local authority . that be why I be commit to a review of selective licensing and the licensing of house in multiple occupation to consider how we can reduce burden and make the system more effective for landlord , tenant and local authority . I be keen to work closely with member and the wide sector on this issue , and will provide further detail in due course . I have sit on many Bill Committees in this House , and have now be privileged to lead my first Bill Committee , face the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich . he have be a great person to work with and have seek at every opportunity to make sure the Bill work and be effective . I say to he in Committee that we would listen to suggestion for how we can improve the Bill , and we be do so today . for tenant , we be expand the homelessness prevention grant and closing loophole in the system ; for landlord , we be introduce an initial six - month tenancy and give they certainty that our reform will work . the Bill deliver on our manifesto commitment : it give tenant security and landlord fairness . our amendment continue to strike that balance , and I commend they to the House . before I call the shadow Minister , I remind colleague that if they wish to intervene on a speech , it be important that they have be in the Chamber since the beginning of the speech , just in case the important point they wish to raise have already be address . it be also important that they stay for the duration of the speech , in case other colleague then refer to the important point that they have raise . I clarify that because we may have a long speech from the shadow Minister , and people may wish to intervene , so I think it would be helpful to remind colleague of those rule . I rise on behalf of the Opposition to speak to the new clause and amendment that stand in my name . it be a pleasure to finally be back in the Chamber to conclude the remain stage of this important piece of legislation . I say " finally " because as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , the Bill leave Committee on 28 November last year — almost five month ago . indeed , such have be the delay in bring it back to the House that in the intervene 147 day , the Department even manage to complete all the Commons stage of another piece of housing legislation — albeit a distinctly limited and unambitious one — in the form of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill . the reason for the delay be , of course , an open secret , with the ongoing resistance to the legislation from score of Government Members — include many with relevant interest , as private renter across the country have certainly note — and the undignified wrangling between they and Ministers splash across the paper for month . the damage cause by the discord on the Government Benches have be significant : not only have thousand of additional private renter be put at risk of homelessness as a result of be serve a section 21 notice in the month for which the Bill ' s remain stage have be delay ; the sector as a whole have be leave in limbo , not know whether the Bill will proceed at all and , if it do , what form it will take . indeed , such have be the frustration at the impact on landlord and tenant of the endless rumour , speculation and off - the - record briefing that have take place , two organisation as different in their outlook as Crisis and the National Residential Landlords Association feel compel to come together to issue a joint statement , plead with the Government to bring to an end the destabilising and damaging uncertainty and lack of progress . it have now finally be bring to an end : not with Ministers summon up the courage to face down their unruly Back Benchers — as they could have do , with the vote of Labour Members if require — but , as be par for the course with this weak and divide Conservative Government , with a series of concession design to placate those Back Benchers at the expense of private renter , who will see a number of the right and protection initially provide for by the Bill water down . the very fact that the Government be now suggest that the Bill require far significant amendment be ironic , give that the argument repeatedly make in Committee by the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the hon . member for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) , as he resist 81 labour amendment be that the Bill as originally draft strike precisely the right balance between the interest of landlord and those of tenant . today , he have be put in the undignified position of have to come to the Dispatch Box to ask the House to accept in good faith that conversation with Conservative Back Benchers in the wake of Committee stage have convince the Government in all sincerity that more amendment be now essential to ensure that balance be keep . it be frankly laughable — the reality of the grubby political horse - trading that have take place within the Government be entirely transparent . the truth be that when it come to this Bill , the only balance that the Government have ever seek to strike be between attempt to honour the letter of the 2019 conservative party manifesto commitment and appease the vested interest press for the very minimum amount of reform require to assert that that commitment have be meet . before I turn to the detail of the amendment before we , let I briefly set out Labour ' s position on the Bill as we consider its remain stage . with the Government have promise private renter over five year ago that they would scrap section 21 no - fault eviction , we maintain that this legislation be shamefully overdue . give that any further delay would cause yet more harm , both to private tenant who be desperately in need of great right and protection and to responsible landlord who , above all else , require certainty , we believe that as imperfect as the Bill be , it be essential that it complete its passage today . despite our good effort in Committee , the Bill still contain numerous defect , deficiency , omission and loophole that would allow the minority of disreputable landlord to exploit tenant and jeopardise their security of tenure . we remain , therefore , firmly of the view that the Bill be not yet fit for purpose and must be strengthen for the benefit of renter . as the Government appear determined to do the opposite and far tilt the play field towards the landlord interest , we be determined not only to continue to press for those change that we argue for in Committee , but to oppose those Government amendment that be detrimental to the interest of private tenant and that jeopardise the integrity of the Bill as introduce and risk fatally undermine it . with the former objective in mind , I turn first to the amendment and new clause that we have table for consideration . nearly all be identical to the one we press to a Division in Committee : they aim , among other thing , to increase the minimum notice period in respect of de facto no - fault possession ground from two to four month ; remove the punitive and draconian new ground 8a relate to repeat rent arrear ; well protect renter against unreasonable within - tenancy rent increase ; allow the tribunal to make rent repayment order for additional specific breach ; prohibit rental bidding war ; extend Awaab ' s law to the private rented sector ; and maintain the exist ground 14 definition of antisocial behaviour , rather than the Government ' s expansive new definition of be " capable of cause " annoyance or nuisance . I commend each of those amendment and new clause to the House . of particular importance to we be the need to ensure that section 21 eviction be definitively abolish at the point that the Bill become law . as draft , the legislation provide for a two - stage commencement process for the introduction of the new tenancy regime , with the precise date for new and exist tenancy to transition determine by the Secretary of State . we make it clear in Committee that we believe that this two - stage transition process be the right approach : it would clearly not be sensible to enact the whole of part 1 , chapter 1 of the Bill immediately on Royal Assent . however , we argue that landlord and tenant should be give certainty about precisely when the Government ' s manifesto commitment to abolish section 21 no - fault eviction will be enact . in resist our effort in Committee to amend the Bill so that section 21 be repeal on the day the Bill be formally approve , the Minister argue — as the Government have consistently do since announce the concession in their response of 20 October 2023 to the Select Committee — that it would be wrong to do so until the court be ready . the problem be that the Government have never be able to clearly articulate precisely what " ready " in that context mean . indeed , after week of debate in Committee , what minister believe the necessary court improvement encompass and what criterion will be use to determine whether sufficient progress have be achieve remain entirely ambiguous . hon . member may recall that the background briefing note accompany the King ' s Speech suggest that the require improvement relate only to the court possession action process . in contrast , the Government ' s response to the Select Committee last year outline a far more expansive list of " target area " for improvement , include many element of the wide package of court reform allude to in the White Paper . we have hope that the Minister would bring some clarity to the matter in Committee , yet in response to forensic questioning from hon . member about exactly how the Government believe the county court system be underperform , what the precise nature be of the improvement they believe be require before section 21 be completely abolish and how progress on deliver those improvement will be measure , the hon . Gentleman unfortunately offer little more than vague comment about ongoing digitisation , action to tackle bailiff delay and end - to - end process . as a result , as we contemplate send this Bill to the other place today , not only do renter still have no idea when the new tenancy system will come into force , but they remain entirely in the dark on what may constitute requisite progress on the court reform that Ministers deem necessary . in our view , such a degree of uncertainty be simply unacceptable . the end of no - fault eviction can not be make dependent on an unspecified degree of future progress in court improvement subjectively determine by Ministers . the hon . Member be make an interesting point about uncertainty . I understand where he be come from , and many of we on this side would very much like to see section 21 abolition implement as soon as possible . do he , however , accept that there be another uncertainty , which be that if the court system be not work adequately , the amount of private housing stock available for many of our constituent who need it badly could easily shrink fast , as indeed I believe have happen in Scotland ? that would be a much great risk than not lay out at this stage the precise date at which section 21 abolition will be fully implement . I would say two thing to the hon . Gentleman , who make a valid point . first , the Government have have five year , since they first make the commitment to abolish section 21 , to get the court fit for purpose , and they have not do so . indeed , the timescale for both possession and litigation have remain essentially unchanged since 2019 , so there have be no progress in those five year . the actual process of possession proceeding be also probably one of the more efficient aspect of the county court system . we hear extensive evidence in Committee about the fact that the system be essentially work fairly well and be recover well from covid , and that these change would not be significant enough to delay the implementation . even if that be not the case , I would say to he that we should have clarity about precisely what be the improvement the Government think be necessary . let we have metric and let we have timeline , and then we can have an open and transparent conversation about precisely what " ready " mean . at the moment , we be entirely in the dark . we will remain in the dark even if Government new clause 30 be incorporate into the Bill , because it will merely require the Lord Chancellor to publish an assessment of the operation of the county court possession order process in England and its enforcement before the extend application date can be set for chapter 1 of part 1 of the Bill . there be no timescale in which that require assessment need to be publish , and there be nothing that specify the metric against which the Lord Chancellor would judge the readiness of the court system . there be no corresponding obligation impose on the Secretary of State , so if a future Lord Chancellor assess that funding or other specific measure be require to make the court ready for the new system , there be nothing to compel the Government of the day to implement they . even if a future Lord Chancellor be to assess that the court be more than ready , it remain for the Secretary of State to determine whether they wish to make the relevant commencement order , even if clause 116 be amend by Government new clause 27 and 28 . like my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) , I understand where the hon . Gentleman be come from , and I do not have a problem with the abolition of section 21 no - fault eviction . however , as a south - east London MP , he will know that the reality be that the county court face enormous pressure , particularly in our part of the world . I hope that , before hon . member perhaps criticise the Government too much , they will talk to their own local county court , because the data be suggest that , on average , we could be look at about 55 week from the commencement of a possession claim until the decision be make , and on top of that we have the enforcement period . that be not acceptable , and I want it to be quick , but we need to accept , therefore , as the Association of his Majesty ' s District Judges have point out — and I have to say to hon . member that the datum the Justice Committee have be the most accurate — that there have be underfunding of the county court for many year . frankly , that have be under government of both party , because I can remember when I be in practice and the hon . Gentleman ' s party be in government , and there be underfunding of the county court then as well . we all have to take our share of responsibility for that , rather than make it a matter of party controversy . I thank the hon . and learn Gentleman for that point . we all want the process to be quick — I do not think that be in dispute at all — and they certainly could be make quick . landlord need robust ground for possession in legitimate circumstance , and they need the system to operate quickly when they do . the question for we today be : should we essentially put the abolition of section 21 on hold until we have reassurance about an undefined amount of improvement and if we do not know when that be go to be deliver ? all I have hear be about the importance of ensure that the court be function quickly enough to enable landlord to evict the tenant they want to evict , but currently renter have just over a month before they be evict . I have a constituent who lose his son in the most horrific of circumstance — it be in the local paper — whose family be serve a section 21 notice . the landlord know the family have lose a child , but say they have to serve it because the family still have a month and they need to get they to leave . where be the protection for renter , and do my hon . friend agree that kicking abolition of section 21 notice into the long grass mean the Government do not care about renter at all ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the impact on renter , and that be essentially what we be debate . with every month that pass , more private renter be serve section 21 notice . nearly 85 , 000 of they have be put at risk of homelessness as a result of be serve one of those notice , as the Government have delay the implementation of their commitment . as the Bill be draft — even with Government new clause 30 — Ministers can determine whenever they want to signal to the House that the court be ready . we have have no assurance on that point , and that be not satisfactory . in our view , Government new clause 30 be nothing more than a mechanism design to facilitate the further delay of the complete abolition of section 21 eviction , and we will look to vote against it . with the Government have previously make it clear that there will be a requirement for advance notice of six month before new tenancy be convert , and a minimum of 12 month between that conversion and the transition of exist tenancy — with a proposal that the latter will also be make subject to the assessment require by Government new clause 30 — it could be year before renter see section 21 completely abolish , make a complete mockery of the Secretary of State ' s recent claim that such notice will be " outlaw " by the next general election . we know the Government be in no rush to abolish section 21 eviction because they be not lay the groundwork that be necessary for that to happen . where be the draft prescribe form for section 8 notice , and where be the propose amend court form and civil procedure rule ? there be no sign of they , or of any sense of what the regulation require to bring they forward might be . the truth be that Ministers determine long ago , for reason that be entirely obvious , to essentially kick the can down the road on abolish section 21 while disingenuously deny it . although the passage of the Bill will be take as a signal of abolition before the next general election , private renter outside will know that be not the case , and that implementation have be push back , potentially indefinitely . we believe that hard - press renter have wait long enough for the commitment make by the Conservatives over five year ago to be deliver . they require certainty that it will truly be honour , and section 21 eviction definitively abolish with the passing of this legislation . our amendment 28 would provide that certainty by ensure that section 21 of the Housing Act 1988 be repeal on the day that the Bill receive Royal Assent , with save provision for any notice serve before that date so that they remain valid and of lawful effect . I commend the amendment to the House . government new clause 27 , 28 and 30 , to which I have make reference , be only three of the 225 Government amendment table just before the deadline last week . before conclude , I will touch briefly on several of the more substantive among they , start with the small number that will be genuine improvement to the Bill . we be pleased that the Government have respond to our call to ensure the maintenance of a number of the regulatory obligation that have build up around section 21 notice over the year by table Government new clause 14 , which give the Secretary of State the power by regulation to transpose those precondition and requirement into section 8 eviction notice . similarly , we be pleased that the Government have listen to the argument make by my hon . friend the Member for Weaver Vale ( Mike Amesbury ) in Committee and that Government amendment 239 will amend the Bill to ensure that tenant maintain the right to access homelessness support when serve with a valid section 8 notice . sadly , those and other sensible government amendment , include new clause 32 and 34 , be overshadow by other that be far more concerning , chief among they Government new clause 15 . as the Minister explain , new clause 15 will prevent renter from serve a notice to quit within the first four month of a tenancy . couple with the two - month notice period provide for by the Bill as introduce , tenant will be unable to leave a property until they have reside in it for at least six month , unless the landlord agree otherwise . the Government have commit to consider exemption to this fix initial six - month letting period in serious circumstance , such as domestic abuse , the death of a tenant or a serious hazard be present in the property . however , nothing in the new clause as draft guarantee that any such exemption will ultimately be make or what they would look like in practice . even if such exemption be introduce , we believe that the propose six - month initial period would still be extremely damaging . not only would place the onus on tenant to prove that they qualify for an exemption under serious circumstance deter many , particularly those experience domestic abuse , from explore such an option , but a fix initial period of any kind risk fatally undermine the integrity of the new tenancy regime , premise as it be on all future assure tenancy be periodic and open - end with tenant able to end their tenancy when they see fit with appropriate notice as provide for by the Bill . the Government have advance two argument in justify their eleventh - hour introduction of new clause 15 : first , that it will ensure that the cost bear by landlord of find tenant and make repair between tenancy be cover ; and secondly , that it will prevent tenant from use rented property as short - term let . all the available evidence suggest that the prohibitive cost of move be lead to tenant stay long in their home . there be no evidence to support the entirely hypothetical notion that tenant be likely to game the new tenancy regime en masse to use rental property as short - term let . the truth be that there be no compelling rationale for Government new clause 15 . as the Minister know full well , if the Government be not have to appease a small minority in their own rank , they would not be propose it . we believe that the propose six - month initial period will not only trap large number of tenant in unsafe and unsuitable property , but put at risk the coherence of the tenancy regime that be at the heart of the Bill , and we will look to vote against it . in conclusion , this be a long overdue piece of legislation , and it be imperative that it progress today — there be no question about that but for those of we on the Opposition Benches , the Bill as introduce be only ever a starting point for overhaul the regulation of the private rent sector . as it progress , the Bill should have be enhance so that the play field between landlord and tenant be level decisively . instead , the fractious state of the conservative party have see the Government make concession after concession in an attempt — a fruitless attempt , from what we can see — to placate a minority of member on the Government Benches . we need to draw a line today on what that minority can extract from Ministers to the detriment of private renter who deserve well , and we need to strengthen the Bill in a number of important respect . I urge the House to come together to do so . there be many amendment on which I could speak — indeed , the book of amendment seem to be almost as long , if not long than the Bill itself — but I will limit myself to new clause 12 , which I have table in my name and those of hon . friend and colleague , and on which amendment 44 to 47 be contingent . first , I declare my interest in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as chair of the quality and safeguard board for a child ' s company . new clause 12 go to the heart of my interest , as it deal with care - experience child . essentially , its purpose be to ensure that landlord do not discriminate against people who have grow up in the care system when make a decision on whom to rent a property to . it would place a specific duty on landlord , prevent they from deny those who have grow up in the care system a tenancy on that basis . landlord find to be in breach of the new clause could be subject to penalty . that be the thrust of what I be try to achieve , and it might strike a chord with many colleague here . some may remember a recent case that highlight the potential problem . the Guinness housing trust , in advertise a property for rent , specifically say that it be not available to care leaver . that be an extraordinary piece of discrimination , redolent of the bad old day when people put up sign say , " no dog , no Irish , no black " , if we can remember back that far . in that recent case , there be potential discrimination against young people who , through no fault of their own , have be through the care system . Guinness fortunately withdraw that straight away and apologise , but the case reinforce the vulnerability of some of the most vulnerable young people in our society when try to get the most basic of daily requirement : a roof over their head . that be what be behind the new clause . I thank the coalition of various charity and organisation that have do a lot of the heavy lifting on this issue , lead by Barnardo ' s and the charity for care - experienced young people , become , as well as other . let I say at the outset that new clause 12 be a probe amendment , and I be grateful for the positive engagement I have have from the Minister already . I be wholly optimistic that he will say some helpful and constructive thing when he come to respond . I will flesh out why this be an important amendment to this important Bill , in which I fully admit there be many other priority . as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , I have a long - stand interest in championing care - experienced young people , whether formerly as child ' s Minister or now as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for child and vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for care - experience child and young people . why do we need to do more to support care leaver when access accommodation in the private rent sector ? it be imperative first for we to consider the big picture with the issue that our young people leave care face . More than 85 , 000 child and young people be in the care system in England , which be a recent high . every year , more than 12 , 000 of they leave that care system . we all know that unfortunately , despite all the good effort and endeavour of successive Governments and Ministers , care leaver still have much poor outcome than their peer . they be less likely to gain good qualification in the education system . nearly half of the child in the care system have a mental health problem , and it be estimate that a quarter of homeless people have be in care at some point in their life . they be also disproportionately represent in the justice system and make up over a quarter of serve prisoner . from the age of 18 , care - experience young people be often expect to be financially independent and manage their own household bill , but research over many decade have show that care leaver be much more financially vulnerable than their peer . a significant number live on or near the poverty line and struggle to make end meet . [ interruption . ] I be be echo ; as if member can not get enough of I once , they be now get it in stereo with a time delay . while inflation be begin to come down , certain sector continue to see large price increase , include the private rent sector . private rental price pay by tenant in the UK rise by some 6 . 2 % in the 12 month to January this year , unchanged for the second consecutive month , and that put huge pressure on all tenant . young care leaver live independently at the age of just 18 have no support from the bank of mum and dad , and for they thing can be especially tough . the Member be make a very important and excellent point about care leaver . do he agree that one of the problem be that on reach the age of 18 they be deem to be able to be independent but they have no support network in the way other young people of 18 often do , and therefore while they be get housing support they might not be get the necessary emotional and advice support that all other 18 - year - old get and benefit from ? there be therefore a need for some sort of arrangement to ensure there be a continued level of support well after the age of 18 , if the individual young person actually want that . I agree with the right hon . gentleman up to a point , and of course young people do not magically become much more self - sustainable and resilient the day after their 18th birthday , but there have be many improvement over the year . there be extend support for care leaver up to the age of 25 , and there be arrangement whereby they can still have a relationship , include a financial relationship , for example with foster carer , through the " stay put " scheme the Government have come up with , and many charity and organisation do very good work in provide support , but the point the right hon . Gentleman make be right . Most of we be lucky enough to be able to go run back home to birth family for help and support in difficult time , but that be not always available to young people in the care system , although many do have the continual support of good quality foster carer and other carer they rely on when they be under the age of 18 . however , they be vulnerable , and ensure these young people have a safe and stable home to start their adult life be really crucial . housing can act as a vehicle for stability , and without access to good quality accommodation young people will face challenge in get a job , stay in education and ongoing training , access health service and everything else . however , despite the key role housing can play in help a young person transition to independent living , many care leaver be struggle to find suitable accommodation in those early year after leave care . it be estimate that one in three care leaver become homeless in the first two year immediately after they leave care , and one in four homeless people have be in care at some point in their life , as I mention early . young care leaver face many barrier in access appropriate accommodation , and many will not be able to be address in this Bill . however , it do offer an opportunity to address one of those barrier : that landlord sometimes feel reluctant to rent to young people who have grow up in the care system . young people in care tell charitable organisation in the youth sector that they come across landlord who be reluctant to rent to they because of their circumstance , and evidence from a survey of care leaver carry out by the charity Centrepoint find that over one in 10 — some 13 % — say they have be unable to access accommodation because the landlord be unwilling to accommodate they because of their status . that be not fair . the problem be also likely to get bad give the grow evidence of a reduction in the number of private rental property available across England . an investigation by the BBC find the number of property available to rent across the whole of the UK have fall by a third in the 18 month up to March 2023 , and increase competition for the property that be available have enable more landlord to pick and choose which tenant they like , often go for the high bidder , which of course make it especially challenge for vulnerable group such as care leaver . in the last few year Barnardo ' s have be run a campaign to try and improve access to suitable accommodation for care leaver . I certainly support the campaign , which call on all local authority to offer rent guarantor and deposit scheme for care leaver seek to rent in the private rent sector . the MacAlister report on child in social care , which the Government commission and which be publish last year , make a recommendation that be a care - experienced child should be a protect characteristic . so far in excess of 60 local authority , include my own in West Sussex , have voluntarily acknowledge that , although the Government have not make it a statutory addition at this stage . so some local authority be already provide help to care leaver , with deposit or a scheme where they can act as a corporate guarantor . such scheme greatly help make care - experienced young people more attractive tenant , and a number of local authority report that such scheme have have significant success . the scheme operate by Kent County Council have have no rent default from when it start in 2018 until 2021 ; however , such scheme be not offer by most local authority . a freedom of information request by the Care Leaver Local Offer website to the 151 local authority in England with a child ' s social care department show that 60 % will not act as a guarantor for care leaver . I understand Barnardo ' s be currently in conversation with the Department for Education on how these scheme can be extend , with more local authority be encourage to develop they . that be welcome , but while such scheme will help , they will not be successful if landlord continue to have a reluctance to rent to this group and instead pass they over in favour of young professional who can offer the backing of a family or personal guarantor or high income on their own term . that be why through this amendment I be urge the Minister to extend the provision in the Bill to require landlord not to discriminate against certain group of tenant include care leaver . young people who have grow up in care have often face very difficult circumstance in their life , which be why they end up in care , and when they come into the care of the state we agree that we would become their corporate parent . I very much see the amendment as key to fulfil this duty in provide important extra support to care leaver , ensure more of they will be able to access safe and stable accommodation that they can call home . in closing , I want to say that there be a basis for have a consideration for foster family as well . I know from my experience work with foster group that landlord can be reluctant to rent to foster family who have a number of child who will change and may be a little more problematic in some case as well . however , foster family do an essential job and we be short of about 8 , 000 or 9 , 000 foster carer in this country , and the last thing we need be for they not to be able to offer a safe , stable , love home to a child who have be through traumatic experience because they can not get into rent accommodation themselves as landlord do not want to be housing child who may be a little more challenging in some circumstance , but in most case be not . so consideration must be give to the idea that landlord should regard foster - care family as people to be encourage because they be do a noble and worthy job for vulnerable child , and , frankly , that be just the sort of tenant they should want to encourage . so perhaps in consider the way we treat care leaver themselves go out into the big wide world to rent we should also be mindful of the need of foster carer , who have do such a fantastic job in pick those child and young people up and guide they through to adulthood . I want to secure the Minister ' s commitment to work with colleague particularly in the Department for Education , which have the lead responsibility for child in the care system , to consider how to involve landlord when develop new rent guarantor and deposit scheme for care leaver , and to agree to keep the issue under review with the possibility of use a power the Secretary of State have under the Bill to extend the non - discrimination clause to group such as child with care experience . I know my hon . friend the Minister be sympathetic to the thrust of my probe amendment and in his response and the Government ' s official response on these matter we must send out a very clear signal that discriminate against child in the care system and care leaver be not on . People should have more of a duty of care to do everything they can to make sure those young people who have miss out on many of the thing we take for grant — a safe and love family at home — be not disadvantaged yet again by not be able to get a roof over their head . I hope the Minister will respond favourably to this probe amendment , and I be sure he will . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , I inform the House that I will be give priority to those member who have amendment down , so that they can speak to they before we hear from other . I call Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , Clive Betts . it be disappointing that we be have to focus primarily on the Government back - pedal on the timetable for the abolition of section 21 . the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee look at this a year ago and conclude unanimously that the principle of the Government ' s intention be right . we have some reservation and caveat , and we raise concern and suggest detail change , but nevertheless we agree on the principle . generally speak , there be agreement across the House that it be the right thing to do . in the meantime , people be live in uncertainty in private rent housing . that be why we think it be the right thing to do . that be what the measure be for : to give people great certainty about where they will be live in a year ' s time . it be not merely that ; it be also so that they know , if they do not have a car , that they can get on the bus to their place of work in the morning — if the landlord evict they and they have to move home , will they be able to get to that job in the future ? it be also about child at school : will those child be able to get to the same school if they be evict from their home and have to find a new property ? that be the sort of family certainty that the abolition of section 21 will introduce . so many family be live in uncertainty — not just housing uncertainty but other uncertainty — while we await that abolition . the Minister need to get on with it and give we some clear time commitment on when it will happen . we have just discuss the problem of the court . of course , covid have affect lot of public service , but I say to the Minister that it be not a surprise . if we look at how long it be take local authority to get court hearing to deal with antisocial behaviour case before covid , we see even then that those run into month . it have be a problem in the court for many year . that be why the Committee have suggest — it have be suggest before — a housing court system . I know that minister do not want it and that the Ministry of Justice do not want it , but it seem to we a way of resolve what be often simple or quick problem . a small claim court format could do it in many case without the need for lawyer to be introduce . I be sorry , but I have no conviction that , with several month of look at this , several year of contemplation and plan for action , the court will be any quick in two or three year than they be now . the court system have delay , and they be likely to remain , so we need to look a bit beyond the exist system to resolve these problem . obviously , Ministers have set their mind against that . I turn to the other main problem that we highlight on implementation : local authority and their staff . we know that local authority be desperately short of staff for enforcement in the private rent sector . once section 21 go , tenant who be currently frightened — even those live in appal damp property — to make complaint against their landlord , because they be concerned they would be evict as soon as a complaint be make , will feel emboldened to make that complaint , and if their complaint be not listen to , they will be embolden to go to their local authority and ask for help . local authority will get more request for help , and they have not get the people to deal with that . will the Minister assure we that he be start to talk to the Local Government Association about the new burden that will be place on local authority — this be a new burden that we be impose on they , albeit a good one — and that there be some agreement on the resource that will be need ? resource do not produce extra staff overnight , so local authority will need advance warning so that we have the staff in place to respond quickly . I apologise for interrupt the hon . Gentleman . give the important point he be make about redress for tenant and who they might go to , would he add any comment on consumer protection for unfair trading , which be one of the remedy for those who have difficulty with either the standard and quality of their property or the landlord , as well as those who have be mi - sell for a rental period ? I think the reality be that local authority be generally short of resource right through , as the Committee ' s recent report on local authority funding — again , it be unanimously agree — show . because of the demand of social care on local authority budget , other service be often cut even more than the mainstream . we have previously look at trading standard and consumer protection , which be an important element — the hon . member be absolutely right — and I hope that they will be factor in when we have the new burden discussion . there be some thing that the Minister could resolve fairly quickly . he refer to the important role that the ombudsman can play in resolve dispute . there be sometimes a bit of a conflict between whether someone go to the ombudsman or to the court — sometimes , the ombudsman will not deal with a case if it be in the court . it would be helpful to clarify those issue . but why do he not just decide that the housing ombudsman , who currently deal with social housing issue , will also deal with private sector housing ? he should make that decision . again , if the ombudsman be to have that responsibility , it need to gear up by start to recruit more staff and get in resource to be able to do it . it be a simple decision . he have not rule it out , but he have not rule it in . can we not just do it ? it seem obvious . why set up another body , which would have to start from scratch , when the ombudsman have the skill to do it ? those skill be slightly different in some case , but why not let it get on with that , and tell it now that it will have that job to do ? I have a couple of other point . the property portal be a really welcome development . we know that when someone be try to track down a landlord — it be often a local authority , which want to serve a notice on they — suddenly , the ownership of the property move , and a different member of the family become an owner , or a different company be set up . to know who own the property , information will have to be give to the property portal , along with all other information about the property . that be a really important step forward , as well as make sure that the portal be digitise so that the information can be keep up to date simply . I welcome the Minister say that selective licensing and the property portal be not the same thing , with the property portal to be there for all property . selective licensing — it be in the name — will be there for some property . when there be a review of selective licensing and the relationship with the property portal , will the proposal come back to the House for consideration at some point ? I want reassurance on that . many of we support selective licensing , which we see operate against the bad landlord and the bad property , and we hope that there will not be a diminution of those power and responsibility that would weaken what it can achieve . I can certainly commit to work with the hon . Member and his Committee when we be at the point of make a decision on where we go after such a review . I completely agree that selective licensing have its role — it be not overtake by the property portal — but we must ensure that the two work together . that be a helpful assurance , which I accept , and I think he have already give assurance of similar collaboration on the decent home standard , which be appreciate . finally , I come specifically to some complicated amendment that I have table — I admit that they even confuse I on occasion — which be about the power that social landlord have when they come to regenerate area . the Committee have hear some pretty awful example of poor property in the social housing sector , and we have be critical . however , often it be not an individual property that be the problem , but property in deck - access block build in the ' 60 , ' 70 or ' 80 . the property have reach the end of its life and people do not like live there : it might have damp or other problem , such as antisocial behaviour . the management cost be high and the cost of regeneration , make it fit for purpose and bring it up to decent home standard , be so great that it be not worth spend the money . in some case demolition and rebuild be need , and in other substantial regeneration and improvement be need , and that mean the tenant have to move out . in those case , social landlord need to be certain that they have the power to require tenant to move , because in a block of property of 100 resident , 95 of they will probably be terribly enthusiastic about move out , particularly if they be go to get a new or refurbish home , but the other five might dig their heel in and try to stick it out , hold up the whole scheme . the Minister believe that social landlord have the power to do that under exist legislation . I have table amendment 52 and the related amendment because the National Housing Federation be concerned that social landlord think they have power , but they do not exist where the initial tenancy with their secure tenant be set up by a nomination from a local authority . it be a complicated legal issue , but an important one . the NHF be also concerned that although someone can be move on by a secure tenancy be take away and another be give , where someone be be move on not to secure tenancy — because it be a decant property , pende their home be refurbish — social landlord may not have the same power . there be legal and technical complication in this area . I will not press my amendment , but I table they because the NHF be still concerned , even with the Minister ' s assurance . will he agree to meet I and the NHF to try to ensure that landlord have the power to act in this way , which I think everyone will support they to do ? the hon . Gentleman make legitimate point , and I be more than happy to meet he and the National Housing Federation . I thank the Minister for that response . on that collaborative point , I will end my contribution . I be very pleased to follow the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , on which I sit . he express very well the importance of the section 21 reform , in particular to family and to renter who be so reliant on they . my view be that the Bill do not go far enough in deal with the fundamental challenge of the private rent sector , which be no long a flex or transitionary tenure but the main tenure for million of people for much , if not all , of their life . there have be a long - term structural shift away from social renting and home ownership into an expand private rent sector . that shift need to be address by build more home — affordable home and for first - time buyer — and by find a new balance that reflect the new reality for million of people in our country . sadly , the original principle of the Bill , which be to create a fair and responsible new rented sector , have be undermine by the Government ' s amendment . that change of position undermine not just the Bill but the very manifesto commitment on which the Conservative Government be elect in 2019 . turn to the amendment and new clause that stand in my name , new clause 39 would require a landlord to make a relocation payment to the tenant if the tenant be evict within two year of the start of the tenancy , other than on exempted ground such as antisocial or criminal behaviour . evidence from Shelter and Generation Rent show that unrecoverable cost — the waste cost to the renter of an unwanted move — can be between £ 700 and £ 1 , 700 . my new clause propose that a payment would be make by the landlord in recognition of those unrecoverable cost to the tenant . be evicted place a great emotional strain on tenant , who find themselves in insecure housing . it should not place they under a financial strain as well . amendment 257 would amend ground 12 — possession due to a failure to carry out an obligation of the tenancy — in schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1988 , set out the ground for possession . that provision will gain much great importance follow these change , for it be the catch - all provision for eviction . the amendment be intend to address the risk of be serve a notice for eviction for trivial matter , such as hang up washing outside , display a poster on a wall , or a teenager put up a poster with Blu Tack . those be real example write into exist tenancy agreement by let agency that be member of their relevant professional body . amendment 257 would provide that ground 12 could be use only for material breach , not for Blu Tack . the Minister have write to I to say that there be landlord who want to make the ground 12 position mandatory . these be landlord who want to be able to serve notice and evict tenant for use Blu Tack . in my book , if you be to lose your home it should be for a serious reason , not for Blu Tack or hang the washing outside or any other trivial thing . all the more so , because we know that the majority of eviction take place when notice be give to the tenant without court application , let alone court repossession order . the Law Society have raise the issue of the scarcity of legal advice available to tenant across the country . we have hear already today that the Government have not yet produce even work draft of what the new form might be for the new eviction ground . that also matter , because at the moment the court form require the ground to be set out in the document . they do not require , for example , for that to specify whether it be in fact a discretionary or other ground for the court . so this do impact directly on tenant ' understanding and ability to challenge their potential eviction . as such , the Government ' s position , which be to allow ground 12 — the Blu Tack ground — unamended , be to invite every landlord to invoke spurious and unfair reason for eviction . this be apparently not the intent of the Bill . I be grateful to the Minister for his engagement with I on that ground . I ask he to reconsider that position and see what more can be do to ensure that ground 12 apply only in relation to serious matter . that seem much more reasonable , and fair to landlord and tenant alike . on Government new clause 30 , when I speak to major landlord recently , they confirm that they be not yet ready to digitise . they be not yet ready to put in place and work with the very provision for which they have so strongly advocate . I understand that it might take some more than two year to put their own system in place to engage with the new measure they have ask for . meanwhile , and after all this time — nearly five year — the Government have no detailed plan about what these court change might be . in November , in Committee , the Minister deny that this be a delaying tactic . however , since then the Ministry of Justice have publish its digitisation and reform programme all the way through to 2025 . there be absolutely no reference — not even an indicative reference — to this reform programme relate to repossession . I ask the House of Commons Library for assistance , but it too have be unable to find any specific reference to the change that may come up in the court process . so I be afraid that the truth be that new clause 30 be a delaying tactic to benefit landlord . as have be mention , the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee have write to the Minister on the implementation of these measure . it have be note by the Committee that court guidance be already in place to deal with repossession claim in a timely manner . they be contain already in civil procedure rule 55 . 5 . of course , the court can always be improve — indeed , it be most welcome that there be a commitment that they should be so — but it should be note that the Ministry of Justice ' s data show that last year the target set out for repossession have , in fact , be meet . the court ' performance in landlord repossession case stand in marked contrast , in the recovery since covid , to many other court backlog . that be confirm in write evidence to the Justice Committee . I be grateful to the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) — he be not currently in his place — for whom I have the great respect . I note that in the write evidence to that Committee , the MOJ confirm , just in September , that 95 % of court be meet that target . I understand that the much large number of week to which my hon . and learn Friend refer may relate to personal injury and other matter that be bring before the Committee , but I will discuss that with he later , give that he be not currently in the Chamber . these be important reform and it be important for the court process to work in the right way , but they be work within their current target , in mark contrast to other court backlog . that be why new clause 30 be not necessary , and be properly consider to be a delaying tactic . this be a Bill that the 2019 conservative manifesto promise would benefit tenant , but it have become a Bill in which the balance too often favour the landlord , particularly if it include new clause 30 , which could indefinitely delay the abolition of section 21 no - fault eviction . that would be nothing short of a betrayal of the promise that be make in 2019 , and for that reason I be unable to support the new clause . I be delighted to speak about this important Bill on behalf of my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) , who unfortunately could not be here today but who have do a huge amount of work on it , include her work in Committee . I thank the Minister for his comment about she , and for the constructive way in which he have work with she throughout the Bill ' s passage so far on specific amendment , some of which I will discuss in due course . the Liberal Democrats support the Bill in principle because we want to ensure that the private rental market be fair for all , and we have long call for section 21 no - fault eviction to be scrap . barely a week go by when I , a London MP , do not hear from yet another family who be be turf out of their home for spurious reason under section 21 . I be sorry to say that , as many other have point out , the Government have be far too slow in introduce these measure . they have be drag into it kick and scream at every turn , and have make the commitment five year ago and have have plenty of legislative time available in the last and current Sessions , they have delay and delay . meanwhile , a cost of living crisis have mean even more people become homeless , and rise pressure on council that be have to pay for emergency accommodation . amendment 3 , table by my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire , would increase the time that must elapse between a landlord ' s take ownership of a property and make the property available for rent to six month , from the currently propose three . this six - month period be design to act as a more effective deterrent for landlord wish to evict tenant in order to remarket a property quickly , or " flip " it into a holiday let . I note that a similar amendment table by the opposition would extend the time to 12 month . the Liberal Democrats believe that would risk drive landlord from the market , and that six month strike the right balance between protect tenant from sharp practice and not drive reputable landlord away . " flip " , or quickly remarkete property for holiday letting , have cause serious injustice in some of the most beautiful place in the country , such as Cumbria . local people live in tourist hotspot often struggle to afford a home in their area because of the rapid increase in the number of property take out of residential let and use solely as short - term holiday let . that have a knock - on impact in term of workforce pressure , especially in the hospitality and care sector . of course there need to be some holiday accommodation in beautiful area that benefit economically from attract tourism , but we must find a balance between holiday and private rent sector accommodation . I be grateful to the Government for accept that point and work constructively with the Liberal Democrats by table amendment 66 . although their amendment do not go quite as far as we would have like and include a six - month restrict period , it will ensure that landlord can not remarket a property as a short - term or holiday let within three month of purchase . that be a much - need step towards level the play field in the housing market for local people in tourist hotspot and help local economy and community to thrive . amendment 37 , which be table by my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire , would ensure that accommodation rent from the Defence Infrastructure Organisation by service individual and their family be subject to the decent home standard . Servicemen and woman be house in accommodation rent from the DIO , which be currently not subject to a minimum standard . this mean that individual who have put their life on the line for our country be not necessarily guarantee a warm and safe place to live in return . across the country , and specifically at RAF Shawbury and Tern Hill barracks in north Shropshire , there have be report of service family accommodation be plague by black mould , rat infestation and chronic overcrowding . that be no way to treat people who have put their life on the line to serve this country . frankly , they deserve well . amendment 37 would ensure that all accommodation rent from the DIO meet minimum housing standard , such as be in a reasonable state of repair and provide a reasonable degree of thermal comfort . without the amendment , the Government would miss out on a crucial opportunity to finally bring service accommodation up to a decent standard . I be sure that member on both side of the House will agree that this be the absolute minimum we should be offer to service individual , so I hope that the Minister can offer reassurance from the Dispatch Box that he and his Department be willing to move on this issue , ahead of the Bill move to the other place , by work with my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire to ensure that the decent home standard be apply to all military service accommodation . otherwise , we will push the amendment to a vote . amendment 28 be table by those on the Opposition Front Bench . some conservative Members question why we should scrap section 21 — not just in name , but by implement this legislation at the early possible opportunity — but I ask they what they would say to the father in my constituency who contact I last year . he be serve a section 21 notice for have the temerity to fix a leak in his home that be cause damp and mould . his landlord have refuse to do the repair and he have two child live with very serious health condition , whose symptom be exacerbate by the mould . the endless delay from those on the Conservative Benches have mean that thousand more family like my constituent have find themselves homeless . last week , I receive another case of a family who be about to be evict , just as two of their child start their gcse and a - level . some 1 . 8 million renter household in this country include child . we should be put they first , which be why the Liberal Democrats support amendment 28 . abolish section 21 eviction would ensure that tenant live in property suffer from disrepair , or even infestation , can report such issue to their landlord without the fear of a revenge eviction . it would also drive up standard in the rental sector and give tenant a much - need voice . there should be absolutely no delay in the abolition of section 21 notice . I also want to speak in support of amendment 20 , which be table by those on the Opposition Front Bench . it would maintain the exist definition of antisocial behaviour as " be conduct causing or likely to cause a nuisance or annoyance , rather than be define as behaviour ' capable of cause ' nuisance or annoyance . " that be a small but critical difference in the definition of antisocial behaviour . without the amendment , the Conservative Government would be write a very ambiguous definition of antisocial behaviour into the statute book . the Government ' s definition of antisocial behaviour could allow landlord to use it as a quick way to evict tenant , or as a back door to section 21 eviction . in Committee , my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire move an amendment that word the definition similarly . we must have a definition of antisocial behaviour that protect tenant from unfair eviction but ensure that landlord have the tool necessary to evict tenant in case of genuine disturbance . in his second reading speech , the Secretary of State promise this House that the Bill would bring tenant and landlord together to put in place " strong protection for the future " . — [ Official Report , 23 October 2023 ; Vol . 738 , c . 641 . ] without amendment 20 , he will fail to do so . new clause 38 , which I table , would introduce a technical change that I discuss early with the Minister . it seek to address an anomaly in the Bill as draft in relation to leaseholder seek to let their property . I be grateful to the Minister and his official for their attention and I recognise that Government new clause 13 address this issue to a large extent , but as I discuss early with the Minister , I look forward to work with he and discuss how we can ensure that this provision be far extend to lease where freeholder or management company consent be require for a sub - letting . I place on the record my strong support for new clause 12 , table by the hon . member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) . I strongly endorse all his comment on care leaver and foster family , and of course he would expect I to add the family of kinship carer to that category . I urge the Government to work constructively with he on that . the Liberal Democrats be broadly in favour of the Bill and appreciate the fact that the Government have agree to work with we on the importance of safeguard community from be price out by the popularity of the holiday let market . despite that , we would have like the Bill to go far and we urge the Government not to ignore this opportunity finally to guarantee service individual and their family the right to decent housing and to close the ambiguity on antisocial behaviour to ensure that it be not just another way for landlord to unfairly evict tenant . I end by call once again for the Government to stop kick the can of abolish section 21 down the road . I say gently to the Minister , who have be very collaborative in his comment , that we have see with the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill that when the Government be hellbent on do something for political purpose , they will ram the legislation through . they will ensure that those flight get off the ground because it serve their political purpose . so if there be a will , there be a way . I take on board the point about the court have to be ready , but I firmly believe that if this Government want to do something , they have the mean to achieve it . I therefore urge the Minister again to protect renter , particularly those family with child up and down the country who be face homelessness every single week . this be a core reform that the liberal Democrats have long call for and that the Government have long delay . it be high time they step up and deliver it . rise — Order . before I call the next hon . member speak , I have now to announce the result of today ' s deferred Division on the draft Economic Growth ( Regulatory Functions ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 . the Ayes be 395 and the Noes be 50 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] I rise to speak to the amendment that stand in my name , as well as on a number of Government amendment . I feel that I should start by thank both the Minister and the shadow Minister for their conversation over the last five month on this topic . I should be clear about my position in lead a number of amendment to the Bill . at no point have we ever seek to stop section 21 come in , and I hope that I will be able to make that clear in the course of my remark . what we have seek to do be to stop the ending of fix - term tenancy — something I believe would have a dramatic impact on the supply of property , include long - term rental property . that , to I , be the concern . I believe that it will cause far great upset in the short and long term in respect of whether people can have the house that they need . in rural area such as mine where housing be already very expensive , more and more landlord be already decide that let their property out be not worth the candle . they will therefore sell they , and the effect will be that there be few and few property to rent . those that be available will therefore go up and up in price and our youngster will struggle to get on to the rental ladder . I thank my hon . friend for make that point . it be one that I will come on to , in term of both the impact that the Bill will have on the attractiveness of short - term let and the bureaucracy and hassle that will arise from this legislation . from the outset of the Bill ' s arrival in Parliament , I have work to ensure that it strike the right balance between tenant and landlord — a balance that ensure that the right of tenant be respect and enshrine in legislation while the right of landlord , property ownership and contract law be maintain and safeguard . I believe that a failure to strike that balance would have a disastrous impact on the private rental market in the United Kingdom . complicate the rental market with onerous request , bureaucratic measure , additional cost and an inability for people to operate their personal property as they wish would only result in large swathe of the private rent sector throw up their hand and sell their property , just as a failure to support tenant would only embolden rogue landlord , diminish standard and increase unfair treatment . from the start , it have be my mission to find a level playing field that ensure that tenant and landlord can co - operate together in a fair market that have a healthy supply of rental property , with right and standard enshrine , cost low and bureaucracy minimal , in a system that respect the rule of law and , perhaps most importantly , have a structure and a court system that be effective and that deliver . all of this have be do because we be in the midst of a supply crisis in the private rented sector , on which we have yet to touch . on average , 25 prospective tenant inquire about every available rental property , up from eight in 2019 , accord to rightmove . hampton estimate that between 2016 and the end of 2023 , individual landlord sell almost 300 , 000 more home than they buy . last year , the Bank of England warn that demand for rental property continue to outstrip supply as the number of landlord choose to exit the market increase . it be therefore vital that responsible landlord have confidence that pragmatic change be be make to the Bill . failure to do so would only deepen the crisis . I have say previously that the failure to have a sensible rental period at the start of a tenancy would likely result in the flourishing of long - term rental property be use as short - term let . give the substantial price difference between short - term let and long - term let in constituency like mine and the constituency of the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) and for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , there would be a very real likelihood of people exploit that loophole . Landlords incur cost and expense when enter into a tenancy , and they need the certainty of a minimum period . many buy - to - let mortgage lender also require a minimum six - month tenancy agreement when lend to residential landlord . as a result , I table amendment 6 with the support of 58 colleague to ensure that tenant can not give two month ' notice to leave a property until they have reside in it for four month . I believe that this be in line with the recommendation of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee . I therefore welcome that the Government have accept this argument and table new clause 15 , which mirror amendment 6 . I will therefore not press my amendment . I wonder whether I can tease out the hon . Gentleman ' s reasoning in think that the possibility of rental property be use as short - term let be so serious . it be an entirely hypothetical problem . renter who take out a tenancy agreement will have to provide a five - week deposit — they will probably be charge the maximum — and they have to go through a lengthy process to try to get that deposit back . what evidence do he have to suggest that , en masse , tenant will try to game the system in the way he expect ? with the great of respect , I be say that that be one of the reason why I fear not have a minimum notice period . my constituency have the high number of second home and short - term let of almost anywhere in the country . there be a significant price differential , and a significant amount of hassle be be heap on landlord by this Bill , which might push they in that direction . this may be one of the foreseeable consequence . I have raise it on Second Reading and in private conversation with the hon . Gentleman . new clause 2 , on rent repayment order , would enable local housing authority to impose financial penalty on certain individual where they believe that a housing offence have be commit by a body corporate . last year , the Supreme Court deliver a landmark ruling in which it say that , where a rent - to - rent company take over the running of a property , it can not pass its legal liability on to the property ' s landlord . the Government have amend the Bill to reverse that decision , which will mean that landlord can be fine even in case where a rent - to - rent company or similar have , without the landlord ' s knowledge , be ask by a tenant to illegally sub - let a property . accord to datum from Direct Line , one in 10 renter admit to sub - let part of the home in which they live , of whom 48 % do not disclose it to their landlord and three quarter do not review their exist lease agreement to determine whether sub - letting be permit . the amendment would deal with the main concern associate with the use of rent - to - rent company . it would address the problem of landlord and other who willingly hide behind such company to let property while avoid liability for rent repayment order , without penalise those who be innocent victim of such company . I welcome and recognise the fact that the Government have see sense and table their own amendment , mirror my propose new clause 2 , in the form of propose Government new clause 34 . I therefore withdraw propose new clause 2 . amendment 8 and 9 , in my name , be about court reform . as have be discuss , amendment 9 will require the Secretary of State to publish a review of the operation of residential possession proceeding before determine the commencement date for the provision of chapter 1 of part 1 . reform to the justice system be vital for tenant and landlord to be able to enforce their right when section 21 be rightly end . the Law Society have warn that " the court be vastly overstretch : possession claim and the eviction process can take many month , sometimes more . the bill may lead to an increase in contest hearing in the short term as landlord that would previously have use no - fault provision will instead have to prove fault . the government should outline how it intend to manage increase demand on the court and what additional resource it will put in place to deal with exist backlog . " datum from the Ministry of Justice show that it take a mean average of almost 29 week between a private landlord make a legitimate possession claim to repossession happen under section 8 procedure . the Ministry of Justice note : " timeliness figure be high than the legal guideline . " it be not acceptable that , where tenant be commit antisocial behaviour , fellow tenant and neighbour be expect to wait over half a year before the problem be resolve . as I say in my opening speech , we be explore expedite possession for serious antisocial behaviour claim . I be happy to work with my hon . friend on how we go about that and ensure that it happen before these reform be fully implement . the Minister will find in this part of my speech we will be agree vehemently , although the latter part of my speech might not be so agreeable . I be grateful to he for his intervention ; I always welcome the opportunity to work with he . likewise , in the case of rent arrear , it can not be acceptable to have a system that allow rent arrear to continue to build for seven month . the amendment would make good on the Government ' s commitment that the justice system be fully prepared for the impact of the end of section 21 . again , I be grateful that the Government have decide to accept the point in principle and introduce proposed Government new clause 30 , which mirror my amendment 9 , which be support by so many colleague . I therefore withdraw amendment 9 . propose new clause 1 , the repeal of requirement for selective licensing , under my name , would remove the ability of local housing authority to designate area as subject to selective licensing . the Bill provide the Secretary of State with the power to develop a new property portal that all landlord would have to join to demonstrate to prospective tenant that the property they rent meet all require standard . it would be effectively a national licensing scheme . as selective licensing deal only with management quality and not property standard , the change in the Bill be likely to do more than selective licensing to improve property . since council will be able to use the portal to access information on all private rent property and landlord operate in their area , and in view of plan for a decent home standard for the sector , local selective licensing scheme will be make redundant . in Wales , the introduction of landlord registration lead to the end of almost all selective licensing , so it be unlikely that local authority would pursue costly and complex scheme in future . I take on board the Minister ' s comment in his opening remark . selective licensing be an additional cost to landlord , in addition to the property portal and redress scheme . landlord should not have to be regulate twice and pay twice for much the same thing . propose new clause 1 would scrap selective licensing scheme for private rent housing when the property portal go live . have both would not enhance protection for tenant , but merely be a duplication . scrap they would remove an unnecessary layer of bureaucracy and cost for landlord . I be grateful for the Minister ' s open remark . I will take the Government at their word that the Dispatch Box commitment to conduct a review of selective licensing will take place at the early opportunity . my new clause 3 would enable court to consider hearsay evidence during the course of proceeding for possession on the ground of antisocial behaviour . it be vital that , when section 21 end , swift and effective action can be take against tenant commit antisocial behaviour who cause misery for so many neighbour and fellow tenant . to support this , the Government have change the wording of the discretionary ground to repossess a property due to tenant antisocial behaviour — ground 14 . they clarify that any behaviour " capable " of cause " nuisance or annoyance " can lead to eviction . previously , it be behaviour " likely " to cause a problem . however , that be not the true problem . the current problem , which be not deal with by the Bill , be that the main evidence of nuisance be provide by neighbour , as they be close to the person involve . the change to the definition of nuisance do not alter the fact that evidence of behaviour need to be provide , and that will still come from neighbour . however , in so many instance , neighbour be reluctant to attend court and give evidence , in part because the slow speed of the court system mean that they will be force to live near the person that they have report or help to evict for several month afterwards . a well solution would be to allow landlord to use evidence of problematic behaviour that be provide by neighbour complain by text or email to the landlord or the let agency . this evidence be not currently admissible , and the court can not give sufficient weight to it when decide whether the tenant be commit antisocial behaviour . this amendment would allow for such evidence to be use by the court . in the negotiation and discussion that we have in the run - up to this debate , the Minister ' s Department and his civil service team be extremely helpful in highlight Civil Procedure Rule part 33 . 3 in relation to " circumstance in which notice of intention to rely on hearsay evidence be not require . " again , the comment make by the Minister be welcome , although I hope his Department will follow this up with the Ministry of Justice . I therefore withdraw new clause 3 . amendment 5 cover house of multiple occupancy relate specifically to student . this would mean that the ground for possession for student property could also be use for property occupy by one or two student , which would not otherwise have be consider as HMOs . end fix - term tenancy will be problematic for the student housing market — it would be problematic for the whole Bill — which operate on a yearly cycle , from one academic year to another . although the Government have recognise that by allow fix - term agreement to continue in purpose - build student accommodation , it will not apply , as I understand it , to traditional off - street private - rent housing , often rent to those in their second or third year of study . this be a concern share by many in the industry and , indeed , by the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , which have note : " currently , the proposal be to include this part of the prs in the tenancy reform , but we conclude that abolish fix - term contract could make letting to student considerably less attractive to private landlord , as the student market mirror the academic year and benefit greatly from 12 - month fix tenancy . " I hope that I have quote the Select Committee report accurately . a Government amendment to the Bill make at Committee stage establish a new ground for possession — ground 4A — to protect the student housing market . this be to be welcome . it will ensure that landlord can guarantee that most student property will be available for each academic year , but it will not protect all student housing . the new ground will cover only house of multiple occupation ; it will not apply to those property occupy by one or two student . this oversight would be rectify by my propose amendment . again , I thank the Government for recognise this and introduce their own amendment 226 and 228 , which have address that problem . as I come to my concluding remark — at last — I wish to make some comment on amendment 10 , which have not be select . order . I have be listen carefully to what the hon . Gentleman have be say . he have a range of amendment and it be perfectly in order for he to speak to those , but it be not in order for he to speak to amendment 10 , because it have not be select . not only have it not be select for a Division , but it have not be select for debate . there might be a general point to which he could make reference , but he may not speak to amendment 10 . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for be so generous in your explanation on that . the problem that I see with this Bill be that , while the intent to remove section 21 be a good and necessary one — yes , it have take time to get to this point — it be not one that those who have sign my amendment have ever object to . the principle that explain why the amendment have be so widely support be that there must be some leeway around ensure that fix - term tenancy can remain . indeed , they still remain in certain instance within the student market . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . do he agree that it be in renter ’ interest , more than anything else , to be able to agree tenancy long than six month , in order to have security of tenure ? if they have a young family , they will not want ground such as sale to get in the way . my hon . friend be right to make that point . in essence , the Bill forbid a contract be agree with a date on which the tenant would have to leave the property . the noble Lord Hannan of Kingsclere point out in February in the other place that " language matter in politic and tendentious phraseology have consequence . how have we reach the point where the expiry of a contract , freely enter into by two party , at the end of its term be now widely refer to as an eviction , let alone a no - fault eviction ? " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 20 February 2024 ; Vol . 836 , c . 519 . ] to be clear , the Bill will make it illegal to sign a fix - term tenancy . the lack of clarity when describe the end of a contract have mean that we be now term simple cessation of contract as no - fault eviction . who be at fault when a previously agree contract come to an end at a future date ? no one . I believe that there be way to retain fix - term tenancy and scrap section 21 . will the hon . Gentleman concede that , although in principle it be perfectly possible to imagine a scenario where the tenant and landlord mutually agree to a set length of tenancy , the reality be that , because so many tenant be rush for so few property , the amount of free will that the tenant have in sign up to that contract be not very great ? the idea of its be mutually agreeable be rather more suspect than the hon . Gentleman suggest . I come at it from a different angle : we be heap so many rule and regulation on people , and make thing so difficult , they be leave the market as a result . this be one of the pioneer policy of Thatcher , bring in the idea of the free market in property , and ensure that million of people across the country could realise the social value of have a buy - to - let property on a long - term basis . the hon . Lady will not agree with I ; I do not think that we agree on very much . that be okay ; it be good to be able to debate the issue , especially in this Chamber . we must be honest about this : remove fix - term tenancy be essentially the state tell individual what they can and can not do with their own private property . it be conceivable to remove section 21 while retain fix - term tenancy . I have say that the Conservatives have long pride ourselves on be the party of free market , and we should keep that in mind when we vote later . we be send completely the wrong message , with dire consequence for future level of housing supply . we be make an enormous mistake , which will reduce long - term let in favour of short - term let and result in many property be take off the rental market . I would hate to be back here , have to repeat the figure that I give at the start of my remark — in 2019 , there be eight people for every one property ; now there be 25 — and say that the number be go up and up . I fear that , as a consequence of the Bill , that will happen . the hon . Gentleman seem to be in favour of abolish section 21 , but then give landlord the right to bring in fix - term tenancy , which end with a section 21 notice . if the landlord choose , therefore , section 21 would not be abolish , would it ? it would be a figment of our imagination here , because in practice it would never be deliver with his proposal . the hon . Gentleman be right to make that point , and he have far great expertise in this area than I , but I be say that we can retain fix - term tenancy , scrap section 21 and amend other part of the Bill . there be breach of contract . indeed , we could make notice period long . I know that the Department discuss that idea when this be moot after the 2019 election : we could scrap section 21 but increase the notice period for an eviction . those be way we could do it , but to throw the baby out with the bathwater and to become so restrictive on someone ' s private property be a problem . People go into the buy - to - let market to let their property out , but unfortunately I think this Bill will have the opposite impact , push people out of the market who will no long want to deal with the hassle . my hon . friend be make a fantastic speech and I commend he for all of his effort on the Bill . one of the challenge be that sometimes our thinking about this issue be constrain to , for example , a metropolitan area . he and I both represent rural constituency that be really affect by short - term holiday let , and the unintended consequence of this Bill be that landlord will be push towards use those , because the rule and regulation will become so tight and constrain on long - term landlord . do he agree ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise that point , and it come back to the question of try to incentivise long - term let over short - term let . in rural constituency in the south - west , we face a rise tide of short - term let . however , we be not legislate on the basis of our own respective constituency , but on a nationwide approach . we should look very carefully at other country and other example of where thing have go so badly wrong through , sometimes , the simple tinkering of housing legislation : Scotland on rent control might be one , and Finland or Berlin might be another . they be example of thing have be get horribly wrong . I have be listen very carefully to an excellent contribution , as always , from my hon . friend — they be lucky to have he in Totnes . far to the intervention from our hon . friend the Member for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , be my hon . friend say that the irony of this debate be that we be effectively legislate to no - fault evict tenant because we be push landlord out of the market through this legislation ? can he back that up with any more evidence that he have hear in his deliberation while create this excellent speech ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I will use my constituency as an example : I have see a significant decline in the number of long - term let over the last four - year period . they be go straight into short - term let at a far great cost , make rent totally unaffordable and leave we to come up with innovative way to supply the correct amount of rental property for people who live and work in south Devon . I think that be also reflect in east Devon , in Yeovil in Somerset and , I be sure , in the Cotswolds . I will finish by say that I be grateful for the work Parliament have do on this . at no time do I think the Government have drag their foot ; at no time do I think they have try to block I . by virtue of table quite so many amendment , I be probably responsible for some of that hold - up , and for that I apologise . ultimately , however , it come down to a belief in whether we be overreach . I feel that this Bill be overreach . there be way we can help to ensure that the right of tenant and landlord be enshrine and balanced , but remove fix - term tenancy be a step too far for I — it will be significantly negative for the future rental market , and I will unfortunately have to vote against Third Reading . the Renters ( Reform ) Bill have the potential to bring much - need security and safety to renter , yet amendment to water it down , bring forward in Committee and even on Report , be a backward step that will significantly undermine the Bill ' s intent . as an MP with one of the large student population in the country , I be all too aware that student be experience a housing crisis on top of a cost of living crisis . we have see landlord ask student renter for guarantor , as well as for deposit of up to 100 % of their annual rent , the criterion for which be that the guarantor must own a UK property . that requirement have an impact on the accessibility to working - class student of private rent sector accommodation at their university . it also have an impact on the ability of care leaver and those estranged from their family to access high education altogether , as well as that of international student who do not have family member with property in the UK . to mitigate that , I have table new clause 41 , which seek to end one of the most illogical part of the rental process : guarantor scheme . the expectation that , despite enter into a legal contract that outline the responsibility of the landlord and the tenant , a nominate individual take responsibility for fulfil the contract seem to undermine the purpose of the contract itself . my new clause seek to tackle financial pressure on student , support the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Central ( Paul Blomfield ) to stop landlord from sign up tenant month before an academic year , which create an arm race for student let . we must also consider those who have come through the care system or have become estranged from their parent , for whom live at home have never be an option . if student do not know a guarantor who own a house in the UK , they may be stick pay extra to a private company , pay six month ' rent or more up front , or be unable to rent at all . guarantor be not expect for most people of the same age who be not student , so why be there this discrepancy for student ? an international postgraduate student at Leeds University tell I : " my only viable option be use the Guarantor service ' Housing Hand ' which cost I an additional 50 pound a month on top of rent and bill . I be a phd student receive the UKRI minimum stipend which be pay monthly . the cost of live for food and rent alone be already difficult on this stipend and during final week before the stipend be pay each month I often struggle to maintain a healthy and balanced diet due to financial strain . this be not only demoralise but effect my academic progress on a physical level as I be often hungry and unable to afford fresh fruit and vegetable which be a staple of my diet . it may not sound like much , but not have to pay for this guarantor service could make a considerable difference to my overall wellbee on a monthly basis as this money could instead be use on fresh food . " research conduct by student from the Centre for Homelessness Impact find that just 36 % of university provide help on rent guarantor , that even few provide a rent guarantor service for student , and that , as university themselves face financial issue , such a service will become more unlikely . rent as a student be already an uphill struggle . we know , for example , that student accommodation price have increase by 61 % since 2012 , and information from the National Union of Students UK show we that two in five student have consider drop out because of the cost of rent and bill . when we be try to encourage people to attend our world - lead institution , which strengthen the skill potential of our country ' s workforce , why do we put up so many barrier ? our university be the UK ' s strong soft power . international student in particular be leave with nothing but bad choice — they must either find a UK guarantor or pay six month ' rent or more up front to their landlord . as one student recently relay to the all - party parliamentary group on student : " international student often face more challenge than home student . we have hear story of student pay month of rent upfront , only to find out they have be scamme and the place they think they ' d secure doesn ' t even exist . we have one case where international student pay a whole year ' s rent in advance , only to find out their landlord go bankrupt . while they eventually get their money back , the stress and uncertainty they go through be unbearable . " the Bill be a welcome opportunity to rectify so many of the scandal in the private rented sector , yet there have clearly be a continued and concerted campaign to force the Government to create an unprecedented two - tier rental market in which student would be at the mercy of section 21 eviction that other tenant would be protect from . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I be the owner of a single residential flat that be let out . I simply want to say that , in housing policy , we must always try to strike a balance between the legitimate interest and right of tenant , and those of landlord , not all of whom be large corporation by any manner of mean , and not of all whom make any great profit from those premise — they often operate at quite small margin — but who be a necessary part of the whole eco - structure . equally , have serve in local government for many year , I be conscious of the pressure that unwarranted eviction can place upon family and then upon local authority , which have to pick up their housing duty towards those family . I believe that the Government be do their level well in the Bill to get the right balance as far as that overall picture be concern . I want to speak in particular to Government new clause 30 . we have already hear some rehearsal of the logic behind the new clause and the concern about whether it will cause a delay to the abolition of section 21 eviction , as well as concern about the pressure on the county court . it be in that context , and wear my hat as Chair of the Justice Committee , that I want to flag up to the House the inquiry that the Justice Committee be currently undertake , and receive evidence on , in relation to the work of the county court . I particularly welcome the Minister ' s commitment of £ 11 million to be transfer to the Ministry of Justice to carry out the assessment , because , of course , like local government and housing , the Ministry of Justice be an unprotected Department . it be also a downstream department : either through the court service or other part of its work , it pick up many thing that have go wrong , whether elsewhere in our public service or in society as a whole . the court system , include the civil court and the county court in particular , be very much part of that : a great deal of social problem go through the county court , and we know from all the evidence we be receive that those county court be under very great pressure . as such , I support the new clause — but not because I want to delay the introduction of the reform to the housing procedure that be envisage , or the abolition of section 21 eviction as they currently exist , although as my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) say , there may be other way of strike the right balance that we could look at . I do not want to delay that reform , but we have to be frank and open about the pressure it will potentially put on what be already a strained county court system . if we be go to make those reform — this apply to both party — we need to will the mean to make sure the county court work as efficiently as they should do for all party , whether landlord or tenant . that be the topic that I want to refer to some of the evidence on . the overall picture , base on some 43 submission that have be publish on the Justice Committee ' s website , be that of a very troubled situation as far as delay in the county court be concern . there be delay in two area that be germane to this debate : the first be the time it take to see a possession action through the court , and the second be enforcement , and particularly delay in get bailiff appointment where necessary and then get the enforcement carry out . there be real difficulty with both ; it be fair to say that those difficulty vary across the country , but especially in many urban area , there be considerable pressure . that be particularly acute in London and the south - east , where my constituency be . although the majority of those submission come from landlord , they be base on datum that I think be accept and verify , whichever way one look at this issue . the Large Agents Representation Group represent the large letting and estate agent in London and the south - east . it have collect a deal of datum , and it say in its submission that " on average , the county court be take approximately 276 work day to process a repossession claim from initial enquiry to a decision be give . " some of the other datum that we get do not cover the whole of that process , which be why it be important to have the overall picture . that come to an average of about 55 week , which do not include the enforcement time afterwards . that be unacceptable on both side of the equation , so we need the resource to put that right . Midland Heart , a housing association base in Birmingham — a well - establish register of social landlord — say that " typically , possession claim may take a minimum of 8 month , and sometimes up to 18 month , to conclude " . the Hyde Group , another major social housing provider , say that " the current level of delay be extreme and unacceptable " . a number of those submission also highlight the serious delay in bailiff execute warrant of possession when they be obtain under the current process . of course , that be not unique to possession hearing : as have be observe , in some case possession hearing proceed with more speed than other part of the county court process , but they be still painfully slow in many area . for example , we have have pretty clear evidence that there have be an increase in possession action of roughly 16 % from the equivalent quarter in 2019 , before the pandemic . there be obviously a drop - off during the pandemic itself for a number of reason , and as have be observe , the county court have do well to pick up the backlog that be create during the pandemic . we ought to pay tribute to everybody in the county court : not just the judge , but the office staff who have work phenomenally hard to try to turn that situation around . I hope all member of this House will try to find the time to visit their local county court and see the work that be do by people on the admin side , who be often not the well - pay people in the public sector by any mean . indeed , recruitment and retention of staff in the county court be itself a real challenge , which mean that we must have continue investment in those court . I hope the assessment that the Lord Chancellor carry out under the term of new clause 30 will help we to trigger great investment and make the case for fund the county court much well than it have be for many year under government , dare I say , of all political complexion . to support that , I simply refer to some of the word of the former Lord Chief Justice , Lord Burnett of Maldon . he repeatedly tell we , when he give his annual evidence to the Justice Committee , that there be problem with recruit full - time district judge , the condition of the estate and , very importantly , the fact that the county court rely almost entirely upon paper - base system to carry out its work . the Crown court and the High Court have be substantially digitise . his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service have an ambitious digitisation programme , but it have run slowly — behind its original intention — and many of the propose portal on the civil side be not yet in operation . the net result be that we be work on an analogue system in the county court , which deal with about 95 % of the civil claim , and overwhelmingly the vast bulk of possession action . to make this Bill work , we be go to have to invest in the system that enable possession , where appropriate , to be address with the proper safeguard to tenant . delay have also be cause — this be something the Government have to take on board — through the withdrawal of legal aid in housing case . when we talk to the Association of his Majesty ' s District Judges and other who give evidence to we , we repeatedly hear that with more and more people appear in person — not just tenant in possession action , but very often small landlord , who may also not be able to afford the cost of a solicitor — hearing with litigant in person take much long . they have to have more explain to they , and the hearing take long . the judge have to draft the order , which would normally be draft by the lawyer . therefore , the productivity , particularly of the district judge , be reduce : they can deal with few case in a sit day . that be another reason why we need such a level of investment . to quote the evidence to we from the Association of his Majesty ' s District Judges , " the County Court have long be the poor relation of the justice system when it come to technology . " the other problem be with the recruitment of salaried full - time district judge , who be the vast bulk of the people who carry out this work . it be an MOJ issue , and as much as anything , this require make the work condition of those judge attractive and make sure that salary be competitive , not that that problem do not exist at the high level of the judiciary . unless we have that , unless we have proper representation in these action so that time be save by lawyer hone the issue and enable judge to deal with case more quickly , and unless we have sufficient district judge recruit to hear the case , we will not achieve the much swifter resolution of these issue that the Bill seek to achieve . there be also the issue of enforcement . the 2015 interim review of the structure of civil court lead by Lord Justice Briggs , as he then be , describe enforcement as " the Achilles heel " of the civil justice system , " or at least of the County Court . " it be fair to say that , since 2016 , the Government have make serious investment in his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service ' s reform programme . progress have be make , but it be fair to say that the ambition the Lord Chancellor set out in 2016 of transform our justice system have not yet be achieve in the county court . I hope that we can use this debate as a signal that , if we be go to achieve the policy objective , which I think the House be broadly agree on , we have to will the mean to the court system , because we can not have efficient execution of policy without give the mean to the court system that carry it out . legal right , be they the right of the tenant or of the landlord , be only as good as their ability to access the court to uphold those right in a timely fashion . sadly , we not yet able to achieve that . finally , there many great people do work in housing law , be it in the court or behind the scene . one of the great contributor to housing law in this country recently retire from the bench . his Honour Jan Luba KC may be know to some member as one of the titan of housing law , both as a lawyer and as a judge . Jan recently retire as the designate civil judge for London . he have oversight over all London ' s county court . he have probably do more for housing law than anyone else I have come across . I hope that in retirement he will speak frankly about the pressure that his colleague who be still work be under . that be my plea . if we want to make this Bill work , we have to use the assessment under new clause 30 as evidence of the need for sustained investment in our civil justice system . it be four month since the Bill conclude in Committee and five year since the Government promise to legislate for renter ’ right , so I start by say that it be totally unacceptable that it have take so long for the Renters ( Reform ) Bill to be on Report . it be deplorable for nearly a million renter to have be issue with section 21 eviction notice in England since the Government promise to abolish they , accord to recent YouGov datum . renter have be badly let down by this delay , and aspect of the legislation before we continue to let they down . my amendment 12 would require energy performance certificate for property to be provide to the database operator and for the detail to be record in the portal . this simple amendment would make a big difference . it would recognise that information be power and allow tenant to know whether the home they be about to rent will be damp and leaky or warm and efficient . amendment 12 also build on the exist rule that require epc to be commission before property be put on the market and for they to be clearly display in advert in commercial medium . fairness and logic demand that renter should be able easily to compare energy efficiency information when consider property to rent . a cold and damp home can end up cost renter dearly , both in high energy bill and health and wellbeing impact . renter in cold and damp home run an increase risk of problem associate with mould and of health condition such as asthma and heart disease , as well as of poor mental health . we all know that the UK have some of the leaky home in Europe and that tenant be particularly expose to high global gas price , because the private rented sector be the least energy efficient of any tenure . a staggering quarter of renting household be live in fuel poverty today , so urgent action be essential to improve standard across the sector and to ensure that all renter have a warm and decent home in which to live . it therefore beggar belief that the Prime Minister announce last September that he be scrap the requirement to upgrade energy efficiency standard in private rent property to EPC grade C . that be despite it be essential to deliver on our climate and fuel poverty target . that upgrade would save tenant more than £ 250 a year , even at so - call normal price , accord to the Climate Change Committee . as well as harm renter , that regressive move be also contrary to the wish of landlord , 80 % of whom be in favour of strict energy efficiency regulation . my amendment 13 seek to tackle the crippling private rent that so many people be pay . in Brighton and Hove , in which my constituency rest , a new study of more than 50 , 000 renter find that tenant in the city be spend a scandalous 56 . 9 % of their pay on rent , make it the most expensive city in England in which to rent . as the Bill stand , the measure on rent increase be wholly inadequate . they rely on a resource - intensive and time - consume appeal process that could even see tenant bad off at the end of it , because the tribunal would have the power to impose a high rent than the one the tenant be appeal . that be frankly outrageous and go directly against the promise make in the Secretary of State ' s White Paper , which say : " we will prevent the Tribunal increase rent beyond the amount landlord initially ask for when they propose a rent increase . " amendment 13 would simply make good that break promise by ensure that the rent payable after a tribunal determination can be no high than the rent initially impose by the landlord in the notice serve on the tenant . one would have think that that would be pretty straightforward . give that the landlord be propose that rent level in the first place , that must surely be the upper limit of what the tribunal can determine . the Secretary of State obviously understand that principle , since he put in in his own White Paper . the removal of this commitment in the Bill show the Government be determined to bend over backwards to tip the balance of power even far in favour of landlord . in short , amendment 13 would get rid of what seem to be a deliberate disincentive to discourage tenant from use the process that be suppose to protect they from unfair rent hike . in the absence of a national system for rent control with local flexibility , which be what we really need , amendment 13 be a modest rebalancing of the rent tribunal process , and I would welcome the Minister ' s consideration and response in sum up the debate . there be limited time in the debate , but I very much support the amendment seek to prohibit eviction within two year of the beginning of a tenancy where the landlord want to sell or move family in . as the Bill stand , tenant can be serve two month ' notice just four month after a tenant have move in , make a mockery of ministerial claim to improve security of tenure . I also sincerely hope that Ministers will accept amendment 14 , which address the deeply concern fact that the notice period for eviction under the new landlord ground be just two month . this amendment extend it to four month in recognition of the huge difficulty many people face in find somewhere suitable and affordable to rent when they be evict , which , as we know , be a major cause of homelessness . I have never be a landlord , but I have be a private renter and I greatly welcome some of the measure in the Bill as they would have help I and other private renter a lot . I be offer some extraordinary property when I be a private renter . I remember that one have dog mess all over the floor , while another in Elephant and Castle have bare wire hang out of the wall and a gas cooker hang off the wall . I welcome the extension of the decent home standard to the private rent sector through this legislation , and it be strike how little controversy there have be about that give how big a deal it be . the proportion of private rent home that have a major category 1 hazard in they have already come right down , from 24 % when we come into office in 2010 to just 12 % now , but that be still too high , and it be three time high than in the social rent sector . so it be great that today we be press on with fix this . the Government amendment we be debate today be welcome . they strike a good balance between the interest of tenant and of landlord . for example , new clause 30 , which make the commencement of the end of no - fault eviction dependent on county court be ready , be sensible . the slow recovery of the court from the covid backlog have be frustrating , and there be a much wide question about how we can get rid of old - fashioned court practice that slow thing down . my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , Chair of the Justice Committee , make important point about the paper - base nature still of a lot of what go on there . however , a lot of good idea can be wreck if we do not get the implementation just right and my hon . and learn Friend also mention that it currently take about 55 week from commencement to possession , which be much too long . although I agree with what we be do here in term of no - fault eviction , it be a big deal and it be right and reasonable that those who let out property do at least know that they can rely on a slick and well - function court process before we bring this measure in . even those on the Opposition Front Bench say the court be recover from the pandemic , rather than be fully recover , so I think they recognise that up to a point as well . the Government have make a range of other sensible reform in the new clause before we to ensure that there be fairness for landlord as well as tenant , include new clause 15 which give those who let out property some confidence in the first six month . there be the new student ground as well , and I note that even landlord group such as the National Residential Landlords Association be now say we should get on with this legislation , so I think this be about right . a large number of Government amendment be before we today , but the overall effect be to get a good balance in the legislation . I know some have concern about the end of section 21 , but many country have a similar system and the sky have not fall in . Germany , Austria , Denmark , Switzerland and the Netherlands all ban no - fault eviction , and they have a high share of private renting than we , and in the US and Canada state include California and Quebec do the same and the sky have not fall in there either . even Scotland have have this since 2017 and , again , although it have do some other thing that be pretty unwise in term of rent control , the sky have not fall in . Landlords will still be able to cite a lot of reason to ensure that they can get their property back . indeed , my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) , who be not in her place , suggest that perhaps there be still too many , but I think it be essential that people can get their property back . the end of section 21 change the balance a bit , recognise that it be no small thing to ask people to move home . there be more people live in the private rent sector with child these day , and it be hugely disruptive to have to move . I remember how , in a place that I be rent , we be all move out because the landlord be supposedly go to do massive work , but he end up instal about 1 square metre of linoleum and let the place out again for the same rent . it be just a huge amount of disruption to no particular end . for those in a more vulnerable position than I be , it be not a small thing to be ask to move home , so by end section 21 but still enable landlord to get control of their property when they need it , we be strike the right balance . the amendment that we be consider be not the end of the story . I feel a lot of sympathy for the comment make by the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) . he make some important point about estate regeneration . I also have some sympathy for the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , who make some important point about defence estate and the like . on the one hand , I understand the concern of my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) , but on the other hand I also understand the concern of other , such as my hon . friend the Member for Dover , who worry that it be too easy to evict people . it be not easy to get the balance right , but in put forward this suite of carefully judge amendment , the Government have do that . the Bill will make it fair and more secure for people in the private rented sector , but it also treat landlord fairly . I think that be a fair balance . while I respect the view of the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , who raise some valid point about the county court system and the pressure on it , as someone represent a large number of private renter , I must nevertheless express my concern and share those raise by the shadow Minister and other about the Government ' s failure to deliver on their promise on no - fault eviction . I rise , as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for student , to comment specifically on the proposal in relation to student , to support new clause 41 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North West ( Alex Sobel ) , and to speak to amendment 260 , which stand in my name . student form a substantial part of the private rent sector . back in July , the all - party parliamentary group organise a meeting to ensure that their view be hear . we bring together people from different nation of the UK and from all part of the country . the Minister — sadly , he be not currently in his place — would have find it useful , because it highlight a number of issue in the Bill that have not be properly think through . I have discuss with the Minister the issue that come out of our meeting , and I be grateful to he for have find that time , but I want to share some reflection at this point in the Bill ' s progress . first , on the decision to extend ground for eviction from purpose - build student accommodation to house in multiple occupation and potentially to other student renter , there be mixed view across the country . some be worried that exempt student make they more attractive to less scrupulous landlord as potentially second - class , less protect tenant . other , though , be concerned that give student the same protection as other renter would force landlord to leave the student market , with that point make by landlord in area where there be significant pressure on the housing market . overall , we reach the same view as the Select Committee : on balance , the exemption be probably right , but it need to be keep under review . there be , however , a wide problem with the whole approach to student in the Bill . it seem that the Government have approach student with a one - size - fit - all model : they be undergraduate aged 18 to 21 , live away from the parental home from the first time , and live there during term time only . however , student at our meeting be at pain to point out that they be not a homogeneous group . there be mature student who be rent in their home city and need to be there all the time , and student with family . many course do not start in September and be not on the cycle on which the Government ' s amendment be premise . there be postgraduate teach programme on a different , long cycle . there be postgraduate research student on full - time programme over several year , who be like any young professional . there be mixed household of student and non - student , particularly where group of friend form and perhaps one member graduate . I discuss all those variation with the Minister — I be glad to see he back in the Chamber — and his view be that any atypical student would simply not be subject to the exemption , partly because these issue have not be think through properly . that might be in their favour because they will have great protection , or it might leave they out in the cold because landlord will find they less attractive within the student market . again , that emphasise the need to keep the impact of the student proposal under close review . as the Minister resume his seat I will move to my amendment 260 , which raise a further issue that he refer to : the cycle of student tenancy , which I have discuss with he and on which he be sympathetic . when some of we be student , undergraduate would start university in September , settle in and make friendship group , and towards the end of the academic year , after Easter , they would start look for accommodation for the subsequent year . we have see a landlord - drive arm race , as my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North West refer to it , in which they have pressure student ever early in the year to enter into contract for the subsequent academic year . it be now the norm in many part of the country that student start a course in September be put under pressure by landlord the following month to enter into a contract for the following year . that force they to pay a substantial deposit at a point in their life when they already have significant additional cost . it also force they into joint tenancy with group of people who they might discover later in the year be probably not who they want to live with in the subsequent year . appeal to landlord to step out of the contract into which they enter be invariably reject . as the Government ' s proposal be to regulate on the basis of that tenancy cycle , my proposition be that we try to make that cycle work well by say that designate student contract should not start soon than March of the year in which student will take occupation in September . that would be in the interest of tenant , for the reason that all of we who represent student will know . set a define starting point will also end the arm race , in the interest of landlord . the tendency that the hon . Gentleman refer to be not new . my daughter , who graduate in 2011 and therefore start in 2008 , be already under that pressure . he be right that for a lot of young people it be incredibly difficult to find a group of people they want to live with the follow year within a month of arrive at university . his proposal be commendable and I hope the Government be listen . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . it do vary in different part of the country , but the way in which it have come early and early each year , to the ludicrous position where student be be force into contract for the subsequent year almost at the moment they start their first year , clearly need to be address . as I say , I have discuss this issue with the Minister . when we talk about it he seem sympathetic , so I hope it be an issue we can address as the Bill progress . before I start my remark , I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . my amendment — amendment 39 to 41 — all refer to the Protection from Eviction Act 1977 . I have raise this issue with the Government for the past two year , after one of my constituent , who be a lecturer in law at Bristol University , come to I with his concern . to be fair to the Government , the Under - Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the hon . member for Kensington ( Felicity Buchan ) , have a meeting with that group of academic , but then I hear nothing , which be a little bit disappointing . I have , just this afternoon , receive a reply from the Minister . I thank he for that , but it be date yesterday and only send to I today . I will look at it very carefully , but it be still important that I raise here what I have to say . there be two part to amendment 39 , which relate to the law on harassment of a residential occupier . at the moment , the law be complex and confusing , particularly for lay people , and difficult to enforce . I have glance over the response from the Minister . the Government believe that there be currently enough power of enforcement . as I understand it , the 1977 Act be quite unknown . local authority and the police do not know enough about it . I wonder how we can work in that space to ensure that any unintended consequence bring in by the new legislation will not allow rogue landlord , or those who do not want to do the right thing , and refer they to other piece of legislation . first , the amendment would change the law so that everyone who be harass a residential occupier to try to get they to move out of the property be subject to the same law . currently , if a criminal landlord be harass the tenant , the law be fairly clear . however , it might be another individual who be harass the tenant to get they to move out . in this case , the local authority have to try to find out whether the person do the harassing be an agent act for the rogue landlord . there be also often deliberate obscurity about the identity of the landlord . investigate the relationship between individual to establish their precise legal relationship be time consume and unnecessary , where the aim of the legislation be to protect residential occupier from harassment . the amendment change the law to make enforcement easy for local authority . the change will not affect the position of landlord . they will continue to be subject to the same law . it be only the local authority that can prosecute this offence , and it would still need to prove that a rogue landlord , their agent or any other person know , or have reasonable cause to believe , that their action would have the result of cause the occupier to leave . the other thing that the amendment would do be clarify the law . currently , if a rogue landlord interfere with service that be reasonably require for the occupation of the premise as a household , that can constitute harassment . however , it be not clearly state what those service be — I can think of essential service , such as electricity , cut the water off or even change the lock — so it be important that we take that into consideration . we be not talk about decent landlord , as I have always make very clear . it be about get to those landlord who be clearly not do the right thing . as I say , it be not clearly state what the service be . amendment 39 set out a list of such service , include water , gas and electricity , as well as access to " electronic communication network and service " as define in section 32 of the Communications Act 2003 . amendment 40 deal with three issue . first , the law on whether certain occupier be protect by the legislation on illegal eviction be very complex , and it can be very difficult to establish . that be because some occupier — for example , those who live with the landlord — be exclude from the protection in the law and can therefore be evict without a notice or court order . that create an incentive for sham arrangement whereby a rogue landlord might pretend to live with a tenant to circumvent the protection in the Protection from Eviction Act 1977 . the amendment reverse the burden of proof , place it on the landlord , who must establish that an occupier be not protect by the law . it be base on the idea that everyone have the basic protection of the law unless they be in an exclusionary category for a good reason . the presumption should be that they be protect . secondly , one of the big problem face by residential occupier and prosecutor be identify the landlord . the current law encourage behaviour that obscure the identity of landlord , and the Bill do not address that . propose new section 4A would amend the 1977 Act so that there be a " rebuttable presumption " in any action under that Act that the person to whom the residential occupier pay rent be the landlord of the property . the word " other payment in respect of occupation of a dwelling " be take from the Housing Act 2004 . there have be extensive complaint from local authority and other that police ignorance of the law do not assist , and at time obstruct , the effective prosecution of offence under the 1977 Act . propose new section 7a would amend the Act to require police officer who become aware of potential offence of illegal eviction and harassment to notify the relevant local authority . it also add a power for police to assist the local authority in its investigation and prosecution of offence under the Act . amendment 41 seek to amend the Housing and Planning Act 2016 . it would lower the standard of proof require for make a rent repayment order relate to illegal eviction or harassment . in other rent repayment application , prove the offence be much more straightforward : for example , the landlord may not have a licence . prove illegal eviction or harassment be considerably more challenging for applicant , and as a result of that difficulty , application for repayment order for breach of the 1977 Act often fail . the amendment would bring that test into line with the test use by the county court to determine damage for illegal eviction or harassment . all this be pretty technical and legal stuff that I take up because I think that my constituent have a very fair point . the Minister have now send I a response , for which I thank he . I will study it carefully in decide whether I want to pursue this issue , and whether the amendment should be table in the other place . I rise to speak in support of new clause 40 , which stand in my name , but before I do so I will say a little about the Bill more generally . legislative reform of private renting be urgently need . my constituency be in the eye of the storm of the housing crisis , and every year since 2010 the situation have worsen . the waiting list for a genuinely affordable social home have become long , the number of people live in temporary accommodation have become high , and private sector rent have continue to spiral . despite many promise , the Government have delay action for far too long . private renter , housing campaigner , charity and member from across this House be unite in their support for bold reform of private renting . but now , after year of delay , we see a Government unable to deliver the effective and urgently need reform that be promise , because they be too weak to face down their own Back Benchers . at the heart of the matter be the urgent need for an end to section 21 eviction , which I have be call for since the debate on the Housing and Planning Act 2016 . section 21 be the basis of insecurity in private renting , because it give landlord the ability to evict tenant for no reason at all . time and again , I have see in my constituency how section 21 be use egregiously to ratchet up rent and to stop tenant complain about basic repair or safety issue , such as damp and mould . because a section 21 eviction do not need to be justify with a reason , all the power be in the hand of the landlord . tenant live with the daily threat that they will be tell to leave their home , with all that that entail , such as have to find a new home as rent cost continue to rise . in a housing crisis characterise by an acute shortage of genuinely affordable social housing , private renting be a form of tenure on which million of people rely . they must have a degree of security so that they can put down root , know that their child will be able to remain at the local school , and live without insecurity and the constant fear that they may have to move . section 21 be destabilising for family and community . it be therefore beyond disappointing that the Bill will not result in an immediate end to section 21 , and that the Secretary of State can not give a date for when it will end . the reason for the delay be the shocking mess that the Government have make of the court system . my constituent , who use to be able to attend Lambeth county court , now have to travel to Shoreditch , because the court be close in 2017 . when we challenge the closure of Lambeth county court on the ground that it would involve a much more complicated and costly journey for constituent face eviction who wish to attend court , we be promise digital reform of the court service . we be promise investment in infrastructure to make hearing accessible to anybody who have to attend court , and to ease the complexity of the distance and journey time be increase , but no such investment have be forthcoming . legal aid lawyer in my constituency who work in the court speak of the chaos , the crumble infrastructure and the overburden workload fall on staff , yet this be the excuse today for why section 21 eviction can not be bring to an end . new clause 40 , which I table , arise from a tragedy that happen to a family in my constituency . their son , a first - year university student , have sign a tenancy agreement on a house for his second year . in common with parent of university student across the country , his parent be the guarantor for his tenancy , but before their son have finish his first year at university and the tenancy have even start , he tragically die by suicide . face with one of the most terrible tragedy that any of we can imagine , these bereaved parent be then pursue by their late son ' s let agent for the rent he would have owe on a tenancy that he would never take up . I write to the let agency several time on behalf of my constituent , but it refuse to budge . it maintain that a contract be a contract and that my constituent be liable as the guarantor , so they would just have to pay . surely we in this House can agree that a contractual provision that financially penalise bereave parent for the suicide of their child be straightforwardly wrong . after I raise that case during Prime Minister ' s question , I be contact by a number of family who have sign guarantor agreement on similar contract , but also by a number of landlord and let agent who say that they do not use such clause in their tenancy and guarantor agreement . this demonstrate that such clause be simply not necessary . loss of rental income due to the death of a tenant be an insurable risk for landlord , and it should be a matter for insurance , not for bereaved guarantor . I be grateful to the Minister for meet I to discuss new clause 40 , but I be baffle by the Government ' s response , which be to suggest limit the obligation of a bereaved guarantor to two month , include during the propose six - month minimum commitment at the start of a new tenancy . while two month ' rent be clearly preferable to six month or a year ' s worth of rent , it be still quite literally a financial penalty for the death of a love one . Bereavement be one of the hard thing anyone can experience , and the Government should use the power at their disposal to provide comfort , security and peace of mind to the bereaved so that they can focus on grieve the loss of their love one . it be simply not fair for bereaved guarantor to be charge for the rent that their love one be no long alive to pay , and it be not necessary because the loss of rental income due to the death of a tenant be an insurable risk . new clause 40 would bring this practice to an end and give peace of mind to guarantor that , should the unthinkable happen , they will not have to find hundred or even thousand of pound as they grieve . the Minister have say that he will continue to reflect on this issue . I urge he to do the right thing and to accept new clause 40 into the Bill . it be a simple measure that would prevent anyone else from experience the additional distress that my constituent suffer when their son pass away . this new clause have not be select for a separate decision today , but I will continue to pursue this reform . it be the right thing to do . I urge the Government to look again at this issue . it be a reform that would cost the Government nothing , but it would give peace of mind to anybody face bereavement , as my constituent have have to do , that egregious landlord and let agency will not come after they for a cost that they may not be able to afford at a time when they need help , support and comfort , not additional financial penalty . I thank right hon . and hon . member for their contribution to the debate and for their ongoing engagement throughout the Bill ' s passage . I will respond to some of the issue raise during the debate , but I might not be able to respond to all of they in the time remain . I will start by address the point make by the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) and the amendment table by the Opposition . as I say in my opening speech , I thank he and other on the Labour Front Bench for their continue engagement and their support for the Bill . I believe that we share the ambition to see the Bill on the statute book as soon as possible . new clause 10 would extend Awaab ' s law to the private rent sector . the tragic and avoidable death of two - year - old Awaab Ishak be the most shocking reminder of the danger of damp and mould . I be clear that no tenant should have to live in dangerous housing condition , but our approach to tackle this issue must reflect the difference between the social and private rented sector . Awaab ' s law be design for social housing . Most social landlord manage large portfolio and have dedicate repair and maintenance team , enable they to tackle issue to specific timeframe . in contrast , the vast majority of private landlord own a small number of property , with 82 % of landlord have few than five property and 43 % own just one . the Bill take a different and , I believe , more suitable approach to ensure that private tenant have safe home . it give council power to immediately fine private landlord up to £ 5 , 000 if their property be dangerously unsafe . it also introduce a decent home standard for the first time and a new mean of redress through the ombudsman . we will publish statutory guidance for council on enforcement , and we will explore how this guidance can strengthen the onus on private landlord to deal promptly with tenant complaint about hazard , include for large institutional private landlord that may have resource similar to those of social landlord . amendment 28 , which the hon . Gentleman speak to , would remove section 21 immediately upon Royal Assent . this would mean there be no transition period , as be currently plan , leave no time at all for landlord , let agent , tenant group and local authority to adjust to the new system . there would be no time to conclude the necessary secondary legislation , leave the statute book a confusing mess . importantly , without have the new possession ground in place , amendment 28 would prevent landlord from regain possession of their property even where they have a legitimate reason to do so , which the new ground reflect . landlord could not repossess to sell their property or to deal effectively with antisocial behaviour or repeat rent arrear . most concerningly of all , temporary and supported accommodation would not have access to the critical new ground , which would have an immediate impact by clog up those sector . although it might seem appeal and sound good to say , " let ' s just abolish it on Royal Assent , " amendment 28 would create chaos in the sector . it be far well for tenant and landlord alike if we ensure that the change happen in an orderly way . for those reason , I ask the hon . Gentleman not to press his amendment . amendment 37 , table by the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) and give voice today by the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , seek to bring accommodation provide by the Defence Infrastructure Organisation into scope of the decent home standard . I make it clear that everyone deserve a safe and decent home , none more so than the hero who serve in our armed force . although 96 % of service family accommodation already meet the decent home standard , bring such accommodation within scope could provide a further safeguard to ensure that all service personnel and their family have a home of the quality they deserve . we therefore strongly agree with the intent of the amendment . service family accommodation have unique feature , however , include a significant portion be locate on secure military site where there will be issue around security and access for inspection . this would create a challenge in apply and enforce the decent home standard . the Government intend to ensure that service accommodation meet the decent home standard , while recognise that work be need to determine the appropriate monitoring and report arrangement give the unique nature of this accommodation . my Department will therefore work closely with the Ministry of Defence to explore these challenge and how we can well ensure that there be strong safeguard for service personnel and their family that work effectively in practice . I assure the hon . member for Twickenham and for North Shropshire that we be seriously consider this issue , and that the Minister for Defence Procurement and I intend to meet the hon . member for North Shropshire in the come week to discuss these issue in more detail before the Bill be in Committee in the Lords . I therefore ask she not to press her amendment . new clause 12 and amendment 43 to 47 , table by my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tim Loughton ) , seek to extend the core blanket ban provision in chapter 3 to care leaver . I be grateful to he for raise the important issue of care - experience young people ' s ability to rent a home in the private rent sector . the Government have already reserve a power in the Bill to extend blanket ban provision to additional cohort in future , should we find evidence that it be need . this power could be use to extend the provision to care - experienced people if evidence suggest that it would be effective . help care leaver to make a successful transition from care to independence be a priority for this Government , and we recognise that care leaver can face significant barrier to secure and maintain affordable housing , include provide a guarantor or rent in advance . we be already seek to improve care leaver ' access to housing , as set out in the " stable home , build on love " strategy , which sit alongside exist duty owe to care leaver by local council as corporate parent . furthermore , we understand that at least 78 council have pass motion grant care leaver the same protect characteristic status as other cohort under the Equality Act 2010 in their local area . I be happy to continue work with my hon . friend the Member for East Worthing and Shoreham to hear the challenge that care - experienced people face and how we can make private rent accommodation more accessible to they . I can confirm to my hon . friend that the measure to prohibit blanket ban on the basis that a child will live with or visit a person at a property include foster child and , in response to the hon . member for Twickenham , kinship carer . landlord and let agent will not be able to discriminate against potential tenant on the basis that they foster child . no further legal provision be need to do this . more broadly , during this spending review we be invest over £ 36 million in a foster carer programme and a foster carer recruitment and retention programme . that be the large ever investment in foster in England . for that reason , I ask my hon . friend to withdraw his amendment . new clause 39 , propose by my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) , effectively require landlord to compensate tenant when use any possession ground find in schedule 2 of the Housing Act 1988 within two year , other than ground 7a or ground 14 . while I appreciate the intent behind my hon . friend ' s amendment , I do not agree that landlord should be make to pay compensation to tenant when they have a legitimate reason to evict . landlord look to move into or sell their property , or deal with tenant in rent arrear , may find themselves to be in financial difficulty too , and the change propose by the amendment could exacerbate that . amendment 257 seek to tighten the breach of tenancy ground , so that a tenant can be evict if the tenancy breach impact the wellbeing of other tenant or neighbour , or could cause material damage to the property beyond what would be cover by a tenancy deposit . as I have indicate to my hon . friend the Member for Dover previously , I be sympathetic to the intention behind her amendment but it could have adverse consequence . for example , significant breach of a tenancy agreement , such as sublet , may not lead to an eviction if they be prove to not have a material impact on other housemate or immediate neighbour . I be also concerned about the impact on exist contract , sign between landlord and tenant on the basis that this ground would be available . I assure my hon . friend that ground 12 be discretionary , mean that a judge will consider whether the ground have be meet and whether the possession be reasonable in each case . we therefore think it be unlikely that a tenant would be evict for minor breach . I will seek to clarify in guidance when this ground ought to be use . I be happy to explore what more could be do in legislation to ensure tenant be not unfairly evict for minor and unfair breach to their tenancy agreement . for those reason , I ask my hon . friend to withdraw her amendment . turn to propose new clause 40 , the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) set out a deeply moving and tragic case in her consistency . I be grateful to she for meet I yesterday to discuss the case . new clause 40 would prevent guarantor be hold liable for rent after a tenant ' s death . the hon . Lady have campaign on the issue for some time and I appreciate her work on it . by move to a system of periodic tenancy , tenant and their estate will no long be lock in after the first six month . in the event of a bereavement , the tenant ' s representative would be able to serve two month ' notice to end the tenancy and end the guarantor ' s liability . attempt to hold a guarantor liable for rent past the end of the tenancy would be in breach of the Tenant Fees Act 2019 and a landlord could be fine for do so . I be aware that our new six - month term may mean guarantor be hold liable for long . that be why we have commit to look at an exemption where a tenant tragically die , as I discuss with hon . Lady yesterday , so that a notice can be serve in the usual way . for that reason , I ask the hon . Lady to withdraw her amendment . turn to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) , in his speech he acknowledge that the Government have accept not one but almost all his amendment . I regret that he still feel opposed to the Bill overall , but I hope he will reconsider his position have listen to the debate and hear the significant change we have make . he mention Margaret Thatcher ' s reform of the 1980 . her reform seek to smash a disastrous system of sit tenant , where landlord be block from move into or sell their home , or be force to let their property below market rent . our reform build on her reform . Landlords will still have a mandatory right to move into or sell their home . nothing in our Bill introduce rent cap , despite call from opposition party and the Mayor of London . five year ago , the late James Brokenshire , as Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , promise that we would abolish section 21 eviction . eight month later , every English Member of this House stand on manifesto to abolish section 21 . in 2022 , we publish the White Paper into how we would reform the tenancy system . in 2023 , we bring forward this Bill , which give the White Paper legislative form . and today , we have the opportunity to move forward a Bill that strike the right balance between security for tenant and fairness for landlord . for tenant , this Bill abolishe section 21 eviction and move to a more flexible system of periodic tenancy for all . it apply a new decent home standard to the private rent sector for the first time and outlaws blanket ban on tenant with child , or those on benefit . it give renter a legal right to request a pet . it also expand the homelessness prevention duty to protect vulnerable tenant . together , these change will give tenant the opportunity to put down root in their community , their child in local school and to live in a secure home . for landlord , the Bill strengthen possession ground , give landlord certainty that they can get their property back . it provide strong protection in case of antisocial behaviour and repeat non - payment of rent , and protection for the student market and rural community . tenant will have to give two month ' notice to leave a tenancy instead of one , and we be make improvement to the court system to ensure that they can properly support the new system . the new private rent sector ombudsman will also help prevent issue escalate to the court , offer quick and cheap resolution to dispute . and the new property portal will provide a one - stop shop for landlord to understand requirement and to demonstrate compliance . above all , the Bill deliver for landlord and tenant , because it drive out the bad actor in the system . that be what we aim to do — to build a sector that give tenant security and protection , and landlord fairness , not pit one against the other , but work with both to drive out the bad actor . this Bill be the culmination of year of work in a sector that have not see meaningful change in three decade . I ask all member to join I and back the Bill tonight . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Steve Double Oliver Dowden Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Gregory Campbell Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Rosie Duffield Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Mary Glindon Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Anna McMorrin Navendu Mishra Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Wes Streeting Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 283 , Noes 143 . question accordingly agree to . new clause 15 read a second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 30 - Assessment of operation of possession process " ( 1 ) the Lord Chancellor must prepare an assessment of the operation of the process by which — ( a ) on application make by landlord , the county court be able to make order for the possession of dwelling in England that be let under assured and regulated tenancy , and ( b ) such order be enforce . ( 2 ) the Lord Chancellor must publish the assessment at such time , and in such manner , as the Lord Chancellor think appropriate . ( 3 ) in this section — ' assure tenancy ' mean an assure tenancy within the meaning of the 1988 Act ; ' dwell ' mean a building or part of a building which be occupy or intend to be occupy as a separate dwelling ; ' regulated tenancy ' mean a regulate tenancy within the meaning of the Rent Act 1977 . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause , which be expect to be add to Part 5 of the Bill , require the Lord Chancellor to assess the operation of the county court possession order process in England , and its enforcement . the extended application date can not be set for chapter 1 of Part 1 of the Bill until the assessment have be publish : see new clause NC28 ( 5 ) . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Penny Mordaunt David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Mary Robinson Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale James Wild Craig Williams Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Gregory Campbell Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Rosie Duffield Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Mary Glindon Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Anna McMorrin Navendu Mishra Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Wes Streeting Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Christian Wakeford the House divide : Ayes 287 , Noes 144 . question accordingly agree to . new clause 30 read a second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 13 - Sections 1 and 2 : effect of superior lease " ( 1 ) where , immediately before the commencement date , the lessee under an exist lease of premise that consist of or include a dwelling — ( a ) could sub - let the dwelling under a fix term assure tenancy without breach the lease , but ( b ) could not sub - let the dwelling under a relevant assure tenancy without breach the lease , the lease have effect on and after the commencement date as if it provide that the lessee may sub - let the dwelling under a relevant assure tenancy in the same circumstance and on the same term as the lessee could previously sub - let it under a fix term assure tenancy , except so far as it would be inconsistent with any provision make by or under this Act for the lease to have effect in that way . ( 2 ) where , immediately before the commencement date , the lessee under an exist lease of premise that consist of or include a dwelling — ( a ) could sub - let the dwelling under an assured shorthold tenancy without breach the lease , but ( b ) could not sub - let the dwelling under a relevant assure tenancy without breach the lease , the lease have effect on and after the commencement date as if it provide that the lessee may sub - let the dwelling under a relevant assure tenancy in the same circumstance and on the same term as the lessee could previously sub - let it under an assured shorthold tenancy , except so far as it would be inconsistent with any provision make by or under this Act for the lease to have effect in that way . ( 3 ) where — ( a ) an exist lease which be — ( i ) periodic , or ( ii ) a fix term lease of a term certain not exceed 21 year , be modify by subsection ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) , ( b ) a dwelling be sub - let under the lease on a tenancy ( enter into before or after the commencement date ) which be ( or become on or after that date , by virtue of this Act or otherwise ) a relevant assure tenancy , and ( c ) the tenancy be enter into in accordance with the term of the lease as they stand when the tenancy be enter into ( or , if it be not , the breach have be waive by the landlord ) , the exist lease have effect as if it provide that a failure by the lessee at the end of the lease to return the premise to the landlord free from the relevant assure tenancy do not constitute a breach of the lease . ( 4 ) subsection ( 5 ) apply where , immediately before the commencement date , the lessee under an exist lease of premise that consist of or include a dwelling could sub - let the dwelling under a relevant assure tenancy without breach the lease . ( 5 ) on and after the commencement date , the circumstance in which and term on which the lessee may so sub - let the dwelling remain the same as they be immediately before the commencement date , except so far as that would be inconsistent with provision make by or under this Act . ( 6 ) nothing in this section alter the effect of an exist lease , before the extend application date ( within the meaning give by section ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 3 ) ) , in relation to a sub - tenancy that be an exist tenancy ( within the meaning give by section ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 2 ) ) . ( 7 ) nothing in this section prevent an exist lease from be varied by the party to it . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation disapply or modify the effect of this section in relation to exist lease of a specified description . ( 9 ) where the Secretary of State make regulation under subsection ( 8 ) disapplye the effect of this section , the fact that this section have previously apply in relation to an exist lease do not prevent the exercise of the power in section 117 ( 4 ) ( b ) in relation to the lease . ( 10 ) in this section — " assure shorthold tenancy " be to be read in accordance with Part 1 of the 1988 Act as it have effect immediately before the commencement date ; " the commencement date " have the meaning give by section ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 1 ) ( a ) ; " dwell " mean a " dwelling - house " within the meaning of Part 1 of the 1988 Act ( see section 45 of that Act ) in England ; " exist lease " mean a lease which be enter into before the commencement date or under a contract enter into before that date ; " relevant assure tenancy " mean a periodic assure tenancy which be not an assured shorthold tenancy and in relation to which each of the rent period be a period of — ( a ) 28 day or less , or ( b ) 1 month ; " sub - letting " include sub - letting under any inferior lease . ( 11 ) in this section reference to a lease , and to the term of a lease , include reference to — ( a ) the term of any agreement relate to the lease , and ( b ) any document or communication from the landlord which give or refuse consent for sub - letting in relation to a category or description of sub - tenancy . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause ensure that where , under a lease that be grant before ( or under a contract make before ) implementation of chapter 1 of Part 1 of the Bill , a person can sub - let a dwelling on a fix term or assure shorthold tenancy , the person will continue to be able to sub - let the dwelling even though those tenure have be abolish . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 14 - Powers of Secretary of State in connection with chapter 1 Clause 14 " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend provision make by or under an Act pass before or later in the same session as this act so that the provision have effect in relation to periodic assured tenancy in a manner that correspond or be similar to the manner in which it have effect immediately before the commencement date in relation to — ( a ) fix term assure tenancy , or ( b ) assure shorthold tenancy . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend provision make by or under an Act pass before or later in the same session as this act so that the provision have effect , in relation to a ground in Schedule 2 to the 1988 Act as amend by this Act , in a manner that correspond or be similar to the manner in which it have effect immediately before the commencement date in relation to any ground in that schedule . ( 3 ) the amendment that may be make under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) include any to ensure that provision apply immediately before the commencement date in relation to notice under section 21 of the 1988 Act apply on and after that day , with or without modification , in relation to notice under section 8 of that Act . ( 4 ) the transitional provision that may be include in regulation under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) by virtue of section 112 ( 1 ) ( a ) include provision for pre - application instrument which the Secretary of State consider do not ( or will not ) operate appropriately as a result of any provision of the regulation to — ( i ) have effect with specify modification , or ( ii ) cease to have effect ( in whole or in part ) . ( 5 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) " pre - application instrument " mean an agreement or other instrument make before the regulation come into force ; ( b ) the circumstance in which the Secretary of State may consider that a pre - application instrument do not operate appropriately as a result of regulation under subsection ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) include ( but be not limit to ) those in which — ( i ) as a result of any provision of the regulation , provision make by the instrument be to any extent spend , obsolete , unnecessary or otherwise not of practical utility ; ( ii ) as a result of any provision of the regulation , it be unclear what the effect be of provision make by the instrument ; ( iii ) as a result of any provision of the regulation , a person may be place in breach of obligation arise under the instrument or make subject to more burdensome obligation under the instrument ; ( iv ) the instrument make direct or indirect reference to any enactment as it have effect before be amend by the regulation . ( 6 ) regulation make by virtue of subsection ( 4 ) must provide that they do not prevent — ( a ) the variation or revocation of provision modify by the regulation , or ( b ) the re - making of provision that have cease to have effect as a result of the regulation . ( 7 ) regulation make by virtue of subsection ( 4 ) may apply to an instrument as it have effect in relation to time before the come into force of the regulation but after the commencement date . ( 8 ) nothing in this chapter limit the provision that may be make by regulation under this section . ( 9 ) nothing in this section limit the provision that may be make in regulation under Part 5 . ( 10 ) in this section — " assure shorthold tenancy " be to be read in accordance with Part 1 of the 1988 Act as it have effect immediately before the commencement date ; " the commencement date " have the meaning give by section ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 1 ) ( a ) . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause provide that , where right or duty under legislation ( for example those of tenant or landlord ) refer to fix term assure tenancy and / or assure shorthold tenancy , or to possession ground , regulation can ensure that the right or duty be not jeopardise by the new regime under the Bill , and can modify exist instrument that would not operate appropriately alongside the regulation . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 16 - Power of Welsh Ministers to extend protection to person of other description " ( 1 ) the Welsh Ministers may by regulation make provision in relation to occupation contract , in relation to person of another description , correspond ( with or without modification ) to provision make by this chapter in relation to person who would have a child live with or visit they or be benefit claimant . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may amend , repeal or revoke provision make by or under — ( a ) an Act , or ( b ) an Act or measure of Senedd Cymru , whenever pass or make . ( 3 ) in this section — ' benefit claimant ' have the meaning give by section 8J of the Renting Homes ( fee , discrimination etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 ; ' occupation contract ' have the same meaning as in the Renting Homes ( Wales ) Act 2016 ( see section 7 of that Act ) . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause reproduce the substance of section 8J remove by amendment 107 in the Bill , so that it apply in relation to the provision insert into the Renting Homes ( Wales ) Act 2016 as well and it extend the power to allow amendment of any Act or Measure . it be expect to go into chapter 4 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 17 - Power of Secretary of State to extend protection to person of other description : Wales " the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision that the Welsh Ministers could make under section ( Power of Welsh Ministers to extend protection to person of other description ) ( 1 ) but for the limitation in section 40 . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause give the Secretary of State power to make any provision extend the protection against discrimination in Wales in relation to occupation contract that the Welsh Ministers can not make because it be outside the Senedd ' s legislative competence . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 18 - prohibition of discrimination relate to child or benefit status : Scotland " ( 1 ) the Private Housing ( Tenancies ) ( Scotland ) Act 2016 ( asp 19 ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) after section 6 insert — ' part 1a - choice of tenant 6A Offence of discriminate in relation to child ( 1 ) it be an offence for a relevant person to , in relation to a property that be to be let on an agreement which may give rise to a private residential tenancy — ( a ) prevent a person , on the basis that the relevant person believe that the property would or may be use by a child if the property be the person ' s home , from — ( i ) enquire whether the property be available for let , ( ii ) access information about the property , ( iii ) view the property in order to consider whether to seek to rent it , or ( iv ) enter into a tenancy of the property , or ( b ) apply a provision , criterion or practice in order to make people who would allow the property to be use by a child less likely to enter into a tenancy of the property than people who would not . ( 2 ) it be a defence for the relevant person to show — ( a ) that the conduct be a proportionate mean of achieve a legitimate aim , or ( b ) that the property be insure under an exclude contract of insurance and the conduct be a means of prevent the insure from breach the term which cause the contract to be an exclude contract of insurance . ( 3 ) conduct do not constitute an offence under subsection ( 1 ) if it consist only of — ( a ) thing do by a person who do nothing in relation to the property other than one or more of the follow thing — ( i ) publish advertisement or disseminate information , ( ii ) provide a mean by which a prospective landlord can communicate directly with a prospective tenant , ( iii ) provide a mean by which a prospective tenant can communicate directly with a prospective landlord , or ( b ) thing of a description , or thing do by a person of a description , specify for the purpose of this section in regulation make by the Scottish Ministers . ( 4 ) a person who commit an offence under subsection ( 1 ) be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceed level 3 on the standard scale . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) a property be use by a child if a child live with or visit a person at the property , ( b ) a contract of insurance be an exclude contract of insurance if — ( i ) section ( term in insurance contract relate to child or benefit status : Scotland ) of the Renters ( Reform ) Act 2024 ( term in insurance contract relate to child or benefit status : Scotland ) do not apply to it , and ( ii ) it contain a term which make provision ( however express ) require the insure to prohibit a tenant under a private residential tenancy from allow a child to use the property , or to restrict the circumstance in which such a tenant may allow a child to do so . 6B Offence of discriminate in relation to benefit status ( 1 ) it be an offence for a relevant person to , in relation to a property that be to be let on an agreement which may give rise to a private residential tenancy — ( a ) prevent a person , on the basis of the person ' s benefit status , from — ( i ) enquire whether the property be available for let , ( ii ) access information about the property , ( iii ) view the property in order to consider whether to seek to rent it , or ( iv ) enter into a tenancy of the property , or ( b ) apply a provision , criterion or practice in order to make people who be or who , if the property be their home , may become benefit claimant less likely to enter into a tenancy of the property than people who be not . ( 2 ) it be a defence for the relevant person to show that the property be insure under an exclude contract of insurance and the conduct be a means of prevent the insure from breach the term which cause the contract to be an exclude contract of insurance . ( 3 ) conduct do not constitute an offence under subsection ( 1 ) if it consist only of — ( a ) thing do by a person who do nothing in relation to the property other than one or more of the follow thing — ( i ) publish advertisement or disseminate information , ( ii ) provide a mean by which a prospective landlord can communicate directly with a prospective tenant , ( iii ) provide a mean by which a prospective tenant can communicate directly with a prospective landlord , or ( b ) thing of a description , or thing do by a person of a description , specify for the purpose of this section in regulation make by the Scottish Ministers . ( 4 ) a person who commit an offence under subsection ( 1 ) be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceed level 3 on the standard scale . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) something be do on the basis of a person ' s benefit status if it be do on the basis that the relevant person believe that the person be , may be or , if the property be the person ' s home , may become a benefit claimant , ( b ) a contract of insurance be an exclude contract of insurance if — ( i ) section ( term in insurance contract relate to child or benefit status : Scotland ) of the Renters ( Reform ) Act 2024 ( term in insurance contract relate to child or benefit status : Scotland ) do not apply to it , and ( ii ) it contain a term which make provision ( however express ) require the insure to prohibit a tenant under a private residential tenancy from be a benefit claimant . 6c discriminatory term relate to child or benefit status ( 1 ) a term of a private residential tenancy be of no effect so far as the term make provision ( however express ) — ( a ) prohibit the tenant from have a child live with or visit the tenant at the property or restrict the circumstance in which the tenant may have a child do so , or ( b ) prohibit the tenant from be a benefit claimant . ( 2 ) but — ( a ) subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) do not apply if the provision be a proportionate mean of achieve a legitimate aim , ( b ) subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( b ) do not apply to the extent that the landlord be insure under an exclude contract of insurance and the provision in the tenancy be a means of prevent the landlord from breach the term which cause the contract to be an exclude contract of insurance . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) , a contract of insurance be an exclude contract of insurance if — ( a ) section ( term in insurance contract relate to child or benefit status : Scotland ) of the Renters ( Reform ) Act 2024 ( term in insurance contract relate to child or benefit status : Scotland ) do not apply to it , and ( b ) it contain a term which make provision ( however express ) require the landlord — ( i ) to prohibit the tenant from have a child live with or visit the tenant at the property or to restrict the circumstance in which the tenant may have a child live with or visit the tenant at the property , or ( ii ) to prohibit the tenant from be a benefit claimant . 6D no prohibition on take income into account nothing in this Part prohibit take a person ' s income into account when consider whether that person would be able to afford to pay rent under a private residential tenancy . 6E Interpretation of Part 1A in this part — " benefit claimant " mean a person who — ( a ) be entitle to payment ( include payment make directly to a landlord ) under or by virtue of benefit and welfare legislation , or ( b ) be entitle , by virtue of section 80 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 , to a reduction in the amount of council tax payable in respect of the property on the basis of income or an entitlement to a payment mention in paragraph ( a ) , " benefit and welfare legislation " mean — ( a ) the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , ( b ) the Jobseekers Act 1995 , ( c ) the State Pension Credit Act 2002 , ( d ) the Tax Credits Act 2002 , ( e ) the Welfare Reform Act 2007 , ( f ) the Welfare Reform Act 2012 , ( g ) the Pensions Act 2014 , ( h ) the Social Security ( Scotland ) Act 2018 , " child " mean a person under the age of 18 , " prospective landlord " mean a person who propose to let a property on an agreement which may give rise to a private residential tenancy , " prospective tenant " mean a person seek to find a property to rent , " relevant person " , in relation to a property , mean — ( a ) the prospective landlord , ( b ) a person act or purport to act directly or indirectly on behalf of the prospective landlord . ' ( 3 ) before section 76 , insert — ' 75a Crown application ( 1 ) nothing in Part 1A make the Crown criminally liable . ( 2 ) but the Court of Session may , on an application by the Lord Advocate , declare unlawful any act or omission for which the Crown would be criminally liable be it not for subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) subsection ( 1 ) do not affect the criminal liability of person in the service of the Crown . ' ( 4 ) in section 77 ( regulation - make power ) , in subsection ( 4 ) , after ' section ' insert ' 6a ( 3 ) ( b ) , 6B ( 3 ) ( b ) , ' . ( 5 ) the Housing ( Scotland ) Act 1988 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 6 ) . ( 6 ) after section 26 insert — ' 26a discriminatory term relate to child or benefit status ( 1 ) a term of an assured tenancy be of no effect so far as the term make provision ( however express ) — ( a ) prohibit the tenant from have a child live with or visit the tenant at the dwelling or restrict the circumstance in which the tenant may have a child do so , or ( b ) prohibit the tenant from be a benefit claimant . ( 2 ) but — ( a ) subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) do not apply if the provision be a proportionate mean of achieve a legitimate aim , and ( b ) subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( b ) do not apply to the extent that the landlord be insure under an exclude contract of insurance and the provision in the tenancy be a means of prevent the landlord from breach the term which cause the contract to be an exclude contract of insurance . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) , a contract of insurance be an exclude contract of insurance if — ( a ) section ( term in insurance contract relate to child or benefit status : Scotland ) of the Renters ( Reform ) Act 2024 ( term in insurance contract relate to child or benefit status : Scotland ) do not apply to it , and ( b ) it contain a term which make provision ( however express ) require the landlord — ( i ) to prohibit the tenant from have a child live with or visit the tenant at the dwelling or to restrict the circumstance in which the tenant may have a child live with or visit the tenant at the dwelling , or ( ii ) to prohibit the tenant from be a benefit claimant . ( 4 ) in this section — " benefit claimant " mean a person who — ( a ) be entitle to payment ( include payment make directly to a landlord ) under or by virtue of benefit and welfare legislation , or ( b ) be entitle , by virtue of section 80 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 , to a reduction in the amount of council tax payable in respect of the property on the basis of income or an entitlement to a payment mention in paragraph ( a ) , " benefit and welfare legislation " mean — ( a ) the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , ( b ) the Jobseekers Act 1995 , ( c ) the State Pension Credit Act 2002 , ( d ) the Tax Credits Act 2002 , ( e ) the Welfare Reform Act 2007 , ( f ) the Welfare Reform Act 2012 , ( g ) the Pensions Act 2014 , ( h ) the Social Security ( Scotland ) Act 2018 , " child " mean a person under the age of 18 . ' ( 7 ) the Rent ( Scotland ) Act 1984 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 8 ) . ( 8 ) after section 101 insert — ' 101a discriminatory term relate to child or benefit status ( 1 ) a term of a protected or statutory tenancy be of no effect so far as the term make provision ( however express ) — ( a ) prohibit the tenant from have a child live with or visit the tenant at the dwelling or restrict the circumstance in which the tenant may have a child do so , or ( b ) prohibit the tenant from be a benefit claimant . ( 2 ) but — ( a ) subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) do not apply if the provision be a proportionate mean of achieve a legitimate aim , and ( b ) subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( b ) do not apply to the extent that the landlord be insure under an exclude contract of insurance and the provision in the tenancy be a means of prevent the landlord from breach the term which cause the contract to be an exclude contract of insurance . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) , a contract of insurance be an exclude contract of insurance if — ( a ) section ( term in insurance contract relate to child or benefit status : Scotland ) of the Renters ( Reform ) Act 2024 ( term in insurance contract relate to child or benefit status : Scotland ) do not apply to it , and ( b ) it contain a term which make provision ( however express ) require the landlord — ( i ) to prohibit the tenant from have a child live with or visit the tenant at the dwelling or to restrict the circumstance in which the tenant may have a child live with or visit the tenant at the dwelling , or ( ii ) to prohibit the tenant from be a benefit claimant . ( 4 ) in this section — " benefit claimant " mean a person who — ( a ) be entitle to payment ( include payment make directly to a landlord ) under or by virtue of benefit and welfare legislation , or ( b ) be entitle , by virtue of section 80 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 , to a reduction in the amount of council tax payable in respect of the property on the basis of income or an entitlement to a payment mention in paragraph ( a ) , " benefit and welfare legislation " mean — ( a ) the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , ( b ) the Jobseekers Act 1995 , ( c ) the State Pension Credit Act 2002 , ( d ) the Tax Credits Act 2002 , ( e ) the Welfare Reform Act 2007 , ( f ) the Welfare Reform Act 2012 , ( g ) the Pensions Act 2014 , ( h ) the Social Security ( Scotland ) Act 2018 , " child " mean a person under the age of 18 . ' " — ( Jacob Young . ) this and other new clause relate to discriminatory practice in relation to the grant of tenancy in Scotland be expect to form a new chapter 4A of Part 1 of the Bill . chapter 3 and 4 of Part 1 make similar provision for England and Wales . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . . New Clause 19 - term in standard security relate to child or benefit status : Scotland " ( 1 ) a term of a standard security over land that consist of or include a dwelling be of no effect so far as the term make provision ( however express ) require the debtor in the standard security to — ( a ) prohibit a tenant under a relevant tenancy from have a child live with or visit the tenant at the dwelling , or ( b ) restrict the circumstance in which a tenant under a relevant tenancy may have a child live with or visit the tenant at the dwelling . ( 2 ) a term of a standard security over land that consist of or include a dwelling be of no effect so far as the term make provision ( however express ) require the debtor in the standard security to prohibit a benefit claimant from be a tenant under a relevant tenancy . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause provide for term of a mortgage to be ineffective so far as they would prohibit a tenant under the specify tenancy type in Scotland from have a child live with or visit they or from be a benefit claimant . clause 32 and 38 make similar provision for England and Wales . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 20 - term in insurance contract relate to child or benefit status : Scotland " ( 1 ) a term of a contract of insurance to which this section apply be of no effect so far as the term make provision ( however express ) require the insure to — ( a ) prohibit a tenant under a relevant tenancy from have a child live with or visit the tenant at the dwelling which form the subject of the tenancy , or ( b ) restrict the circumstance in which a tenant under a relevant tenancy may have a child live with or visit the tenant at the dwelling . ( 2 ) a term of a contract of insurance to which this section apply be of no effect so far as the term make provision ( however express ) require the insure to prohibit a benefit claimant from be a tenant under a relevant tenancy . ( 3 ) this section apply to contract of insurance which be enter into or whose duration be extend on or after the day on which this section come into force . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause provide for term of an insurance contract to be ineffective so far as they would prohibit a tenant under the specify tenancy type in Scotland from have a child live with or visit they or from be a benefit claimant . clause 33 and 38 make similar provision for England and Wales . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 21 - power of the Scottish Ministers to extend protection to person of other description " ( 1 ) the Scottish Ministers may by regulation make provision about relevant tenancy , correspond ( with or without modification ) to the provision make by this chapter in relation to person who would have a child live with or visit they or person who be benefit claimant , in relation to person of another description . ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) may amend , repeal or revoke provision make by or under — ( i ) an Act of the Scottish Parliament , ( ii ) an Act ( include this Act ) , whenever pass or make ; ( b ) may only make provision which would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if contain in an Act of that Parliament . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause allow the Scottish Ministers , by regulation , to expand the provision make by the new chapter expect to be form of new clause relate to discriminatory practice in relation to the grant of tenancy to protect person of other description . clause 34 and 38 make similar provision for England and Wales . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 22 - interpretation of chapter 4A " in this chapter — ' benefit claimant ' mean a person who — ( a ) be entitle to payment ( include payment make directly to a landlord ) under or by virtue of benefit and welfare legislation or would be so entitled be the person to become a tenant under a private residential tenancy , or ( b ) be entitle , or would ( on application or otherwise ) , if the person be to rent the property , be entitle , by virtue of section 80 of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 , to a reduction in the amount of council tax payable in respect of the property on the basis of income or an entitlement to a payment mention in paragraph ( a ) ; ' benefit and welfare legislation ' mean — ( a ) the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 ; ( b ) the Jobseekers Act 1995 ; ( c ) the State Pension Credit Act 2002 ; ( d ) the Tax Credits Act 2002 ; ( e ) the Welfare Reform Act 2007 ; ( f ) the Welfare Reform Act 2012 ; ( g ) the Pensions Act 2014 ; ( h ) the Social Security ( Scotland ) Act 2018 ( asp 9 ) ; ' child ' mean a person under the age of 18 ; ' relevant tenancy ' mean — ( a ) a private residential tenancy under the private Housing ( Tenancies ) ( Scotland ) Act 2016 ( asp 19 ) ; ( b ) an assure tenancy under the Housing ( Scotland ) Act 1988 ; ( c ) a protect or statutory tenancy under the Rent ( Scotland ) Act 1984 ; ' tenant ' include sub - tenant . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause contain definition relevant to the new chapter expect to be form of new clause for Scotland relate to discriminatory practice in relation to the grant of tenancy . clause 36 and 38 make similar provision for England and Wales . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 23 - power of Scottish Ministers to make consequential provision " ( 1 ) the Scottish Ministers may by regulation make provision that be consequential on chapter 4A of Part 1 ( see section 27 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 10 ) , as a result of which such regulation be to be make by scottish statutory instrument ) . ( 2 ) regulation under this section may amend , repeal or revoke provision make by or under — ( a ) an Act of the Scottish Parliament pass before this Act , or ( b ) an Act pass — ( i ) before this Act , or ( ii ) later in the same session of Parliament as this Act . ( 3 ) the power to make regulation under this section include power to make — ( a ) supplementary , incidental , transitional or saving provision ; ( b ) different provision for different purpose . ( 4 ) the power under subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) to make transitional provision include power to provide for the regulation to apply ( with or without modification ) in relation to tenancy enter into , or advertising begin , before the date on which the regulation come into force . ( 5 ) regulation under this section may only make provision which would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if contain in an Act of that Parliament . ( 6 ) Regulations make under this section that amend or repeal provision make by an Act of the Scottish Parliament , or by an Act , be subject to the affirmative procedure ( see section 29 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 10 ) ) . ( 7 ) any other regulation make under this section be subject to the negative procedure ( see section 28 of that Act ) . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause confer on the Scottish Ministers a power to make consequential amendment relate to chapter 4A of Part 1 of the Bill ( which will comprise the new clause about discriminatory practice in relation to the grant of tenancy in Scotland ) . it be expect to be insert into Part 5 of the Bill . clause 113 and 114 make similar provision for England and Wales . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 24 - Power of Secretary of State to extend protection to person of other description : Scotland " the Secretary of State may by regulation make provision that the Scottish Ministers could make under section ( power of the Scottish Ministers to extend protection to person of other description ) ( 1 ) but for the limitation in section ( power of the Scottish Ministers to extend protection to person of other description ) ( 2 ) ( b ) . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause be expect to form part of a new chapter contain clause relate to discriminatory practice in Scotland , similar to provision make by chapter 3 and 4 of Part 1 for England and Wales . the power it give the Secretary of State supplement the power of the Scottish Ministers insert by NC21 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . . New Clause 25 - Landlord redress scheme : no Crown status " a person exercise function under a landlord redress scheme ( other than the Secretary of State ) be not to be regard as the servant or agent of the Crown or as enjoy any status , privilege or immunity of the Crown or as exempt from any tax , duty , rate , levy or other charge whatsoever , whether general or local , and any property hold by such a person be not to be regard as property of , or hold on behalf of , the Crown . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause make it clear that people exercise function under a landlord redress scheme do not have Crown status . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . . New Clause 26 - other amendment in connection with landlord redress scheme " Schedule ns1 contain amendment connect with landlord redress scheme . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause introduce new Schedule ns1 which contain amendment connect with landlord redress scheme . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . . New Clause 27 - Commencement " ( 1 ) this Act come into force for the purpose of make regulation on the day on which it be pass . ( 2 ) for remain purpose this Act come into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by regulation make by statutory instrument appoint , subject to subsection ( 3 ) to ( 6 ) . ( 3 ) chapter 4 of Part 1 come into force on such day as the Welsh Ministers by order make by statutory instrument appoint . ( 4 ) chapter 4A of Part 1 come into force on such day as the Scottish Ministers may by regulation appoint ( see section 27 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 10 ) , as a result of which such regulation be to be make by scottish statutory instrument ) . ( 5 ) the follow come into force at the end of the period of two month begin with the day on which this Act be pass — ( a ) chapter 2 of Part 1 ; ( b ) section 43 ; ( c ) section 82 ; ( d ) chapter 3 of Part 4 . ( 6 ) section 83 and this part come into force on the day on which this Act be pass . ( 7 ) different day may be appoint under this section for different purpose . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause and Amendment 151 and NC28 together replace clause 116 with two clause , one on commencement and one on application of chapter 1 of Part 1 . this new clause deal with commencement . it include commencement provision about clause 81 and 82 and new chapter 4A of Part 1 ( prohibition on discrimination in relation to tenancy in Scotland ) as well as provide for regulation - make power to commence on Royal Assent . the re - incorporated provision be re - structured . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . . New Clause 28 - application of chapter 1 of Part 1 " ( 1 ) chapter 1 of Part 1 apply ( subject to any provision make by or under this Act ) — ( a ) in relation to an assured tenancy that be enter into on or after the day on which that chapter come into force ( " the commencement date " ) , and ( b ) on and after the extend application date , in relation to an assured tenancy that — ( i ) be enter into before the commencement date , and ( ii ) continue in effect on the extend application date , ( and accordingly , on the extend application date any such tenancy become an assured tenancy to which section 4A of the 1988 Act , as insert by section 1 of this Act , apply ) . ( 2 ) schedule 5 contain transitional provision relate to the application of chapter 1 of Part 1 to assure tenancy refer to in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) ( ' exist tenancy ' ) . ( 3 ) in paragraph ( b ) of subsection ( 1 ) ' the extend application date ' mean — ( a ) in relation to an assured tenancy refer to in that paragraph that be convert to a periodic tenancy on or after the commencement date but before the date appoint under paragraph ( b ) of this subsection , the date on which it be so convert ; ( b ) in relation to another assure tenancy refer to in paragraph ( b ) of subsection ( 1 ) , a date appoint by the Secretary of State by regulation . ( 4 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) an assured tenancy be ' convert to a periodic tenancy ' if and when it become a periodic tenancy on the expiry of a fix term . ( 5 ) the Secretary of State may not make regulation under subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) until the assessment under section ( Assessment of operation of possession process ) have be publish . ( 6 ) for the purpose of the relevant provision , a fix term assure tenancy and a periodic tenancy that arise on its expiry by virtue of section 5 of the 1988 Act be to be treat as a single assure tenancy which — ( a ) be enter into when the fix term tenancy be enter into , and ( b ) become a periodic tenancy on the expiry of the fix term . ( 7 ) in subsection ( 6 ) , ' the relevant provision ' mean — ( a ) section 5 of the Protection from Eviction Act 1977 as amend by section ( notice to quit by tenant under assure tenancy : timing ) , ( b ) Part 1 of the 1988 Act as amend by chapter 1 of Part 1 , ( c ) subsection ( 1 ) to ( 5 ) of this section , and ( d ) schedule 5 . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend this section to provide for subsection ( 6 ) to apply for the purpose of other provision make by or under an Act pass before or later in the same session as this Act . ( 9 ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under subsection ( 8 ) ( whether alone or with other provision ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 10 ) regulation under this section may make different provision for different purpose . ( 11 ) regulation under this section be to be make by statutory instrument . ( 12 ) nothing in this section prevent regulation make under section ( Commencement ) ( 2 ) and ( 7 ) from appoint different day for the purpose of different description of assured tenancy and , where they do so , the reference in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) to the day on which chapter 1 of Part 1 come into force be to the day on which that chapter come into force for the purpose of the tenancy in question . ( 13 ) nothing in this section prevent regulation make under subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) and ( 10 ) from appoint different day for the purpose of different description of assured tenancy and , where they do so , the reference in subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) to a date appoint by the Secretary of State in regulation be to a date so appoint for the purpose of the tenancy in question . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause and Amendment 151 and NC27 together replace clause 116 with two clause , one deal with commencement and one deal with application of chapter 1 of Part 1 . this new clause contain the application provision with some additional clarificatory provision . it also change the meaning of " the relevant provision " and allow regulation to make further change . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 29 - assured agricultural occupancy : opt out etc " ( 1 ) the 1988 Act be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 24 ( assure agricultural occupancy ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — ' ( 1A ) subsection ( 1 ) have effect subject to section 24a ( 1 ) ( opt out ) . ' ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( a ) of that section omit " which be not an assure shorthold tenancy " . ( 4 ) in subsection ( 3 ) of that section , for ' shall be treat as if it be such a tenancy ' substitute ' , and every opt - out tenancy , be to be treat as if it be an assured tenancy ' . ( 5 ) after that section insert — ' 24a opt out ( 1 ) a tenancy that would otherwise be an assured agricultural occupancy for the purpose of this Part be not such an occupancy for those purpose if — ( a ) before the tenancy be enter into , an opt - out notice ( see subsection ( 2 ) ) be serve by the person who be to be the landlord on the person who be to be the tenant , and ( b ) the tenancy be not the continuation of an exist occupancy ( see subsection ( 3 ) ) . ( 2 ) an opt - out notice be a notice , in such form as may be prescribe , state that the tenancy be not to be an assured agricultural occupancy . ( 3 ) a tenancy be the continuation of an exist occupancy if — ( a ) the person to whom the tenancy be grant or , as the case may be , at least one of the person to whom it be grant be , immediately before it be grant , a tenant under an assured agricultural occupancy , and ( b ) the person by whom it be grant or , as the case may be , at least one of the person by whom it be grant be , immediately before it be grant , a landlord under the assured agricultural occupancy refer to in paragraph ( a ) . ( 4 ) in this chapter " opt - out tenancy " mean a tenancy that , but for this section , would be an assured agricultural occupancy . ' ( 6 ) in section 25 ( security of tenure ) omit subsection ( 1 ) . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause provide for landlord ' s notice pre - tenancy to an agricultural worker , with the effect that the tenancy be not an assure agricultural occupancy ( similar to paragraph 9 of schedule 2A to the 1988 Act , which be omit ) . it be expect to go after clause 20 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 31 - Local Commissioners ' investigation of complaint by person who be not tenant " in section 26 of the Local Government Act 1974 , at the end of subsection ( 8 ) insert ' unless — ( a ) the investigation be in respect of action describe in paragraph 5A or 5b of that schedule , and ( b ) the person affect be not an individual of a description whom a scheme approve under Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1996 ( investigation of social housing complaint by housing ombudsman ) provide may make a complaint under that scheme in respect of that action . ' " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause allow the Local Commissioners to investigate the action of a local authority act in its capacity as a social landlord , where the complainant be not a tenant of the local authority . it be expect to be insert after clause 52 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 32 - unlicensed hmo and house : offence " ( 1 ) section 72 of the Housing Act 2004 ( offence in relation to licensing of HMOs ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) . ( 2 ) for subsection ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) if an HMO be require to be license under this part ( see section 61 ( 1 ) ) but be not so licensed , an offence be commit by — ( a ) any person within subsection ( 1A ) , and ( b ) any person who as landlord under a tenancy or licensor under a licence to occupy have an estate or interest in , or a right in relation to , the HMO that be superior ( whether directly or indirectly ) to the estate , interest or right of any person within subsection ( 1A ) . ( 1A ) the follow be within this subsection — ( a ) any person have control of or manage the HMO , and ( b ) any person who be the landlord or licensor in relation to a person occupy the HMO under a tenancy or licence . " ( 3 ) after subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 4A ) in proceeding against a person for an offence under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) it be a defence for they to prove that they have a reasonable excuse — ( a ) for have control of or manage the HMO , or ( b ) for be the landlord or licensor in relation to a person occupy the HMO under a tenancy or licence , in circumstance in which the HMO be require to be license under this part but be not so licensed . ( 4b ) in proceeding against a person for an offence under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) it be a defence for they to prove that they — ( a ) do not know , and have a reasonable excuse for not know , that the building or part of the building concern be an HMO , ( b ) take all reasonably practicable step to ensure that the HMO be license under this Part , or ( c ) have some other reasonable excuse for fail to ensure that the HMO be so licensed . " ( 4 ) in subsection ( 5 ) — ( a ) for " subsection ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) " substitute " subsection ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) " , and ( b ) omit paragraph ( a ) ( together with the " or " at the end of it ) . ( 5 ) section 95 of the Housing Act 2004 ( offence in relation to licensing of house under Part 3 ) be amend in accordance with subsection ( 6 ) to ( 8 ) . ( 6 ) for subsection ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) if a house be require to be license under this part ( see section 85 ( 1 ) ) but be not so licensed , an offence be commit by — ( a ) any person within subsection ( 1A ) , and ( b ) any person who as landlord under a tenancy or licensor under a licence to occupy have an estate or interest in , or a right in relation to , the house that be superior ( whether directly or indirectly ) to the estate , interest or right of any person within subsection ( 1A ) . ( 1A ) the follow be within this subsection — ( a ) any person have control of or manage the house ; ( b ) any person who be the landlord or licensor in relation to a person occupy the house under a tenancy or licence . " ( 7 ) after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 3A ) in proceeding against a person for an offence under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) it be a defence for they to prove that they have a reasonable excuse — ( a ) for have control of or manage the house , or ( b ) for be the landlord or licensor in relation to a person occupy the house under a tenancy or licence , in circumstance in which the house be require to be license under this part but be not so licensed ( 3b ) in proceeding against a person for an offence under subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) it be a defence for they to prove that they — ( a ) do not know , and have a reasonable excuse for not know , that the house be one to which this Part apply , ( b ) take all reasonably practicable step to ensure that the house be license under this Part , or ( c ) have some other reasonable excuse for fail to ensure that the house be so licensed . " ( 8 ) in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) for " subsection ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) " substitute " subsection ( 2 ) " , and ( b ) for the word follow " excuse " substitute " for fail to comply with the condition " . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause , which be expect to be add to chapter 1 of Part 4 of the Bill , amend the offence in section 72 and 95 of the Housing Act 2004 so that they can be commit by landlord and licensor and by superior landlord and licensor . it will be possible to make rent repayment order against all these person . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 33 - Service of improvement notice on landlord and licensor " in Schedule 1 to the Housing Act 2004 ( procedure and appeal relate to improvement notice ) , in paragraph 2 ( 2 ) — ( a ) after " the notice " insert " on whichever of the follow the authority consider ought to take the action specify in it " , ( b ) in paragraph ( a ) and ( b ) , omit " on " in each place , and ( c ) after paragraph ( b ) insert — " ( c ) ( in either case ) if the premise or any part of they be let under a tenancy that be periodic or be grant for a term of 21 year or less , or be occupy under a licence — ( i ) the landlord or licensor ; ( ii ) any superior landlord or licensor . " " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause , which be expect to be add to chapter 1 of Part 4 of the Bill , allow improvement notice to be serve on landlord , licensor , and superior landlord and licensor . it will be possible to make rent repayment order against recipient if they fail to comply . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 34 - rent repayment order : liability of director etc " in the Housing and Planning Act 2016 , after section 51 insert — " 51A Landlord which be body corporate : liability of director etc ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a landlord which be a body corporate have commit an offence to which this chapter apply , and ( b ) the offence — ( i ) be commit with the consent or connivance of a relevant person in relation to the body corporate , or of a person purport to act in the capacity of a relevant person in relation to the body corporate , or ( ii ) be a specified offence and be attributable to any neglect on the part of such a person . ( 2 ) that person , as well as the body corporate , be treat for the purpose of this chapter as have commit the offence . ( 3 ) in this chapter a reference to the landlord include that person . ( 4 ) in this section — " relevant person " mean — ( a ) in relation to a body corporate other than one the affair of which be manage by its member , a director , manager , secretary or other similar officer of the body ; ( b ) in relation to a body corporate the affair of which be manage by its member , a member who exercise function of management with respect to it ; " specify offence " mean an offence under — ( a ) section 1 ( 2 ) of the Protection from Eviction Act 1977 ; ( b ) section 30 ( 1 ) , 32 ( 1 ) , 72 ( 1 ) or 95 ( 1 ) of the Housing Act 2004 ; ( c ) section 21 of this Act ; ( d ) section 48 ( 1 ) , ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) or 69 ( 2 ) , ( 3 ) or ( 4 ) of the Renters ( Reform ) Act 2024 . " . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause provide for it to be possible to make a rent repayment order against a director or other officer of a body corporate which have commit an offence to which chapter 4 of Part 2 of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 apply . this new clause be expect to be add to chapter 1 of Part 4 of the Bill . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 35 - report on certain matter relate to tenancy reform " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must make arrangement for an independent person to prepare a report on — ( a ) the impact of section 1 on the provision of relevant tenancy ; ( b ) the extent to which the ground in Schedule 2 to the 1988 Act as amend by this Act — ( i ) operate effectively ; ( ii ) be comprehensive ; ( iii ) be fair . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must , within the period of 18 month begin with the relevant date , lie before both Houses of Parliament — ( a ) a copy of the report , and ( b ) a statement set out the Secretary of State ' s response to the report . ( 3 ) nothing in subsection ( 1 ) prevent the Secretary of State from arrange for the independent person to include in the report matter additional to those mention in that subsection . ( 4 ) in this section — " relevant date " mean the early date appoint by the Secretary of State under section ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 3 ) ( b ) ; " relevant tenancy " mean an assure tenancy within the meaning of the 1988 Act other than a tenancy of social housing within the meaning of Part 2 of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause require the Secretary of State to make arrangement for an independent person to prepare a report on certain matter relate to tenancy reform within 18 month of the early date appoint by the Secretary of State as the " extended application date " under subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) of the new clause insert by amendment NC28 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 36 - report on provision of residential tenancy " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must prepare and lie before both Houses of Parliament a report contain an analysis of statistical datum relate to the provision of residential tenancy . ( 2 ) a report must be prepare and lay under subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) within the period of 12 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass , and ( b ) within each subsequent period of 12 month . ( 3 ) the datum analyse in a report may include ( but be not limit to ) datum about — ( a ) the number of dwelling let under residential tenancy ; ( b ) the location of those dwelling ; ( c ) the size of those dwelling . ( 4 ) the datum analyse in a report may be datum that — ( a ) be estimate ; ( b ) comprise datum relate to the provision of residential tenancy and other datum . ( 5 ) subject to subsection ( 6 ) and ( 7 ) , in this section " dwelling " and " residential tenancy " have the meaning give by section 44 on the day on which this Act be pass . ( 6 ) where regulation under section 44 ( 4 ) ( b ) be make add a particular kind of tenancy or licence to the meaning of " residential tenancy " in Part 2 — ( a ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) may also contain an analysis of statistical datum relate to tenancy or licence of that kind , and ( b ) where a report do so , subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) be to be read as if " residential tenancy " in this section include tenancy or licence of that kind . ( 7 ) where regulation under section 44 ( 4 ) ( c ) be make expand the meaning of " dwell " in Part 2 — ( a ) a report under subsection ( 1 ) may also contain an analysis of statistical datum relate to dwelling within the expand meaning give by those regulation , and ( b ) where a report do so , subsection ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) be to be read as if " dwell " in this section include such dwelling . ( 8 ) this section cease to have effect at the end of the period of five year begin with the day on which this Act be pass . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new clause impose on ongoing duty on the Secretary of State to prepare and lie before Parliament a report contain an analysis of statistical datum relate to the provision of residential tenancy . the duty expire after 5 year . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 23 October 2023 ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . clause 1 - assured tenancy to be periodic with rent period not exceed a month Amendments make : 200 , page 1 , line 11 , at end insert " , or " ( b ) for period of the tenancy to be different from the period for which rent be payable ( " rent period " ) . " this amendment , together with amendment 201 , ensure that the period of all assure tenancy will be the same as the rent period ( which be govern by the new section 4A ( 3 ) and ( 4 ) ) . amendment 201 , page 1 , line 13 , after " ( 1 ) " insert " ( a ) or ( b ) " . see the explanatory statement for amendment 200 . amendment 202 , page 1 , line 14 , leave out " those for which rent be payable " and insert " the rent period " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 200 . amendment 203 , page 1 , line 16 , leave out " period for which rent be payable ( " rent period " ) " and insert " rent period " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 200 . amendment 204 , page 2 , line 1 , leave out " about rent period " and insert " of an assured tenancy " . — ( Jacob Young . ) clause 3 - change to ground for possession amendment make : 205 , page 3 , line 3 , at end insert " , or ( b ) where the court have exercise the power confer by section 8 ( 1 ) ( b ) , the period of 14 day begin — ( i ) if the court consider it just and equitable , with the date on which any purported notice under section 8 ( within the meaning give by section 16e ( 8 ) ) be serve on the tenant ; ( ii ) otherwise , with the date on which the proceeding for possession begin . " this amendment change the new subsection ( 5B ) insert by clause 3 ( 2 ) ( b ) of the Bill to make clear how it apply in a case in which the court have waive the requirement for a possession notice . amendment 57 , page 3 , line 21 , after " 2ZB , " insert " 2ZC , 2zd " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 161 and 164 . amendment 56 , page 3 , line 22 , after " 5D , " insert " 5H , " . this amendment add the new Ground 5h ( possession of step stone accommodation ) insert by amendment 175 to the table that the Bill insert into section 8 of the 1988 Act , with the effect that a notice under that section rely on that ground must specify a date no soon than 2 month after the date of service of the notice . amendment 58 , page 3 , line 32 , leave out " 2ZB " and insert " 2ZC " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 161 . amendment 59 , page 3 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( 5b ) a notice give by an intermediate landlord under Ground 2ZB be to be treat , when the superior tenancy end , as a notice give by the person who become the landlord by virtue of section 18 under Ground 2zd . " this amendment be consequential on amendment 161 and 164 . amendment 206 , page 3 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) after section 8 of the 1988 Act insert — " 8za Disapplication of condition where notice dispense with ( 1 ) where a landlord seek to recover possession on Ground 4A in Schedule 2 and the court exercise the power confer by section 8 ( 1 ) ( b ) , the court may disapply paragraph ( c ) of that ground if — ( a ) a purported notice under section 8 be serve on the tenant which — ( i ) specify the ground , and ( ii ) in purport compliance with section 8 ( 3 ) ( b ) , specify a date fall within the period begin with 1 June and end with 30 September in any year , ( b ) the proceeding for possession begin on or after the date so specified , and ( c ) the court consider it just and equitable to disapply paragraph ( c ) of the ground . ( 2 ) where a landlord seek to recover possession on Ground 5 g in Schedule 2 and the court exercise the power confer by section 8 ( 1 ) ( b ) , the court may disapply paragraph ( b ) of that ground if — ( a ) a purported notice under section 8 be serve on the tenant which — ( i ) specify the ground , and ( ii ) in purport compliance with section 8 ( 3 ) ( b ) , specify a date that be no more than 12 month after the date on which the local housing authority notify the landlord as mention in paragraph ( a ) of the ground , ( b ) the proceeding for possession begin on or after the date so specified , and ( c ) the court consider it just and equitable to disapply paragraph ( b ) of the ground . ( 3 ) where a landlord seek to recover possession on Ground 6 in Schedule 2 and the court exercise the power confer by section 8 ( 1 ) ( b ) , the court may disapply paragraph ( aa ) ( ii ) of that ground if — ( a ) a purported notice under section 8 be serve on the tenant which — ( i ) specify the ground , and ( ii ) in purport compliance with section 8 ( 3 ) ( b ) , specify a date that be less than 12 month after the date on which the dwelling - house be transfer to the landlord , ( b ) the proceeding for possession begin on or after the date so specified , and ( c ) the court consider it just and equitable to disapply paragraph ( aa ) ( ii ) of the ground . ( 4 ) in this section " purport notice under section 8 " have the meaning give by section 16e ( 8 ) . " " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment provide for circumstance in which the court can disapply aspect of possession ground that relate to the timing of a possession notice or of proceeding , where the court have waive the requirement for a possession notice . clause 6 - statutory procedure for increase of rent Amendment make : 207 , page 7 , line 4 , at end insert — " 13B challenge to validity of notice to increase rent where a tenant under an assured tenancy make an application to the appropriate tribunal in the prescribed form , the tribunal may determine whether a notice serve on the tenant under section 13 ( 2 ) or 13a ( 2 ) be valid . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment add a new section to the 1988 Act which allow a tenant under an assured tenancy to challenge the validity of a notice to increase the rent in the first - tier Tribunal ( instead of in the county court , which be currently the forum for such challenge ) . clause 11 - Duty of landlord and contractor to give statement of term etc amendment make : 60 , page 13 , line 8 , after " 2ZB , " insert " 2ZC , 2zd " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 161 and 164 . amendment 208 , page 13 , line 8 , leave out " 4A , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 227 and remove the mention of the new student house possession ground 4A from the insert section 16d ( 3 ) of the 1988 Act , since amendment 227 insert a strong requirement for prior notice if a landlord be to gain possession use that ground . amendment 61 , page 13 , line 8 , leave out " 5 g " and insert " 5H — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment allow a landlord to state on or before the start of the tenancy a wish to rely on the new Ground 5h ( possession of step stone accommodation ) insert by amendment 175 . clause 12 - other duty Amendments make : 209 , page 14 , line 8 , leave out " the landlord be not " and insert " the person do not reasonably believe the landlord to be " . this amendment ensure that a landlord , or another person act or purport to act on the landlord ' s behalf , can not be penalise for wrongly rely on a ground for possession where they reasonably believe that the landlord be entitle to rely on it . amendment 63 , page 14 , line 11 , after " 2ZB , " insert " 2ZC , 2zd " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 161 and 164 . amendment 210 , page 14 , line 11 , leave out " 4A , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 227 and remove the mention of the new student house possession ground 4A from the insert section 16e ( 2 ) of the 1988 Act , since amendment 227 insert a strong requirement for prior notice if a landlord be to gain possession use that ground . amendment 62 , page 14 , line 11 , leave out " 5 g " and insert " 5H " . this amendment provide that a landlord must not rely on the new Ground 5h ( possession of step stone accommodation ) insert by amendment 175 to gain possession if they do not state on or before the start of the tenancy a wish to rely on it . if they do rely on it , they may be subject to a penalty . amendment 211 , page 14 , leave out line 14 to 18 . this amendment remove new section 16e ( 2 ) ( f ) of the 1988 Act insert by clause 12 because it substantially overlap with section 16e ( 2 ) ( d ) . Amendment 64 , page 14 , line 22 , at end insert " , or ( b ) permit a person to occupy the dwelling - house — ( i ) under a licence to occupy , and ( ii ) for monetary consideration , except in the circumstance mention in subsection ( 3A ) . ( 3A ) the circumstance be that — ( a ) the relevant person rely on Ground 1 and person mention in paragraph ( a ) to ( d ) of Ground 1 also occupy the dwelling - house and do so as their only or principal home , or ( b ) the relevant person rely on Ground 1a , the licensee have agree to purchase the landlord ' s interest in the dwelling - house and the licence to occupy be grant in anticipation of that purchase . " this amendment prohibit grant a licence to occupy a dwelling - house in exchange for money ( e . g . on a holiday let ) within the 3 month restrict period after the landlord have rely on Ground 1 ( landlord or family to occupy ) or 1A ( sale ) to gain possession of it , with certain exception . amendment 65 , page 14 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( ab ) within the restricted period , market the dwelling - house to be occupy — ( i ) under a licence to occupy , and ( ii ) for monetary consideration , " . this amendment prohibit a relevant person from , within the 3 month restrict period after the landlord have rely on Ground 1 ( possession for landlord or family to occupy ) or 1a ( possession for sale ) to gain possession of it , market the dwelling - house to be occupy under a licence for money ( for example , on a holiday let ) . amendment 66 , page 14 , line 31 , at end insert " , or ( c ) authorise another person to market the dwelling - house to be occupy — ( i ) under a licence to occupy , and ( ii ) for monetary consideration , so far as the authorisation would allow that other person to market it within the restricted period . " this amendment prohibit a relevant person from authorise someone to market the dwelling - house within the 3 month restrict period after the landlord have rely on Ground 1 ( possession for landlord or family to occupy ) or 1a ( possession for sale ) to gain possession of it , to be occupy under a licence in exchange for money ( for example , on a holiday let ) . Amendment 67 , page 14 , line 31 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) subsection ( 3 ) do not apply where the relevant person rely on Ground 1 and the letting be to , or the licensee be , a person mention in paragraph ( a ) to ( d ) of that ground . ( 4b ) subsection ( 4 ) do not apply where the relevant person rely on Ground 1 and the marketing be in connection with let to or occupation under a licence by a person mention in paragraph ( a ) to ( d ) of that ground . ( 4c ) Paragraphs ( ab ) and ( c ) of subsection ( 4 ) do not apply to marketing or authorisation of marketing where the purpose of the marketing be to secure that the dwelling - house be occupy in circumstance mention in subsection ( 3A ) . " this amendment permit let / license to a person mention in Ground 1 ( occupation by landlord or relative ) or marketing in connection with those thing , during the 3 month restrict period after rely on that ground . it make amendment 65 and 66 subject to the exception mention in amendment 64 . amendment 212 , page 15 , line 3 , leave out from " but " to end of line 4 and insert — " ( a ) purport — ( i ) to be such a notice , or ( ii ) to bring an assured tenancy to an end , or ( b ) assert that the landlord be or may be entitle to rely on a specify ground in Schedule 2 in relation to an assured tenancy and request or require that the tenancy be bring to an end , and be not a claim form or a document produce pursuant to proceeding in the court for possession of the dwelling - house ; " . this amendment clarify the meaning of " purport notice under section 8 " and reflect the fact that such a notice do not itself bring a tenancy to an end . amendment 68 , page 15 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of section 16e a person market a dwelling - house to be occupy under a licence when — ( a ) the person advertise that the dwelling - house be or may be available to be occupy under a licence , or ( b ) in the course of letting agency work , the person inform any other person that the dwelling be or may be so available . " this amendment apply the exist provision about marketing to marketing in relation to licence . amendment 69 , page 15 , line 26 , leave out " subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) do " and insert " subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) and ( 1A ) ( a ) do " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 68 . amendment 70 , page 15 , line 34 , leave out " whom to let " and insert " occupy " . this amendment to the define term " prospective landlord " reflect the fact that the section be to concern marketing for occupation under licence as well as tenancy . amendment 71 , page 15 , line 35 , leave out " tenant " and insert " occupier " . this amendment to the define term " prospective tenant " make the term more suitable now that the section amend be to concern marketing for occupation under licence as well as tenancy . amendment 72 , page 15 , line 36 , leave out " let " and insert " occupy " . this amendment reflect the fact that the section be to concern marketing for occupation under licence as well as tenancy . amendment 73 , page 15 , line 42 , leave out " tenant " and insert " occupier " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 71 . amendment 74 , page 16 , line 2 , leave out " tenant " and insert " occupier " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 71 . amendment 75 , page 16 , line 4 , leave out " tenant " and insert " occupier " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 71 . clause 14 - Landlords etc : financial penalty and offence Amendments make : 213 , page 18 , line 13 , leave out from " it , " to first " the " in line 21 and insert " , and " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 211 . amendment 214 , page 18 , leave out line 24 and 25 and insert — " ( 2 ) subsection ( 6 ) and ( 8 ) of section 16e apply for the purpose of this section as they apply for the purpose of that section . " this amendment apply the interpretive provision in new section 16e for the purpose of new section 16I more generally . amendment 195 , page 21 , line 9 , after " London " insert " ( in its capacity as a local authority ) " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment make it clear that the reference to the Common Council of the City of London in the new section 16 K insert by clause 14 be to that Council in its capacity as a local authority . clause 16 - no criminal liability of the Crown under Part 1 of 1988 Act Amendments make : 215 , page 24 , line 39 , at begin insert " be a landlord under a tenancy to which section 16e apply , or act or purport to act on behalf of such a landlord , and , in relation to that tenancy , " . this amendment clarify the effect of the Crown application provision in clause 16 in relation to the new section 16I ( 1 ) of the Housing Act 1988 insert by clause 14 . amendment 216 , page 24 , line 39 , leave out from " the " to end of line 3 on page 25 and insert " condition in paragraph ( a ) of section 16i ( 1 ) where the condition in paragraph ( b ) of section 16i ( 1 ) be also satisfied , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 211 . amendment 217 , page 25 , line 6 , leave out " 16I ( 4 ) " and insert " 16i ( 5 ) " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment correct an incorrect cross - reference . clause 17 - notice to quit by tenant under assure tenancy : time Amendment make : 76 , Page 25 , line 10 , leave out Clause 17 . this amendment would leave out clause 17 of the Bill which be intend to be replace by new clause NC15 . clause 20 - assured agricultural occupancy : ground for possession Amendment make : 77 , clause 20 , page 26 , line 16 , after " 2ZB , " insert " 2ZC , 2zd " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 161 and 164 . clause 22 - tenancy deposit requirement Amendments make : 78 , page 27 , line 29 , leave out " 116 ( 4 ) " and insert " ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 3 ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment NC28 . amendment 79 , page 28 , line 25 , leave out " 116 ( 4 ) " and insert " ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 1 ) ( a ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment NC28 . amendment 80 , page 29 , line 4 , leave out " 116 ( 4 ) " and insert " ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 3 ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment NC28 . amendment 218 , page 29 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 7a ) Omit section 215c " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment be an additional amendment of the Housing Act 2004 regard tenancy deposit protection , arise from the repeal of section 21 of the 1988 Act . it repeal a transitional provision in the 2004 Act . clause 25 - tenancy of more than seven year Amendments make : 219 , page 29 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in section 133 of the 1988 Act ( consent require for certain subsequent disposal ) , in subsection ( 11 ) ( f ) , for " 4 " substitute " 3d " . " this amendment be consequential on subsection ( 1 ) of this clause . amendment 220 , page 29 , line 32 , at end insert — " ( 1b ) in section 13 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 ( lease to which section 11 apply : general rule ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1A ) ( b ) omit " or more " ; ( b ) after subsection ( 1A ) insert — " ( 1aa ) section 11 also apply to a lease of a dwelling - house in England grant on or after the day on which section 166 of the Localism Act 2011 come into force which be a tenancy for a fix term of more than seven year that — ( a ) would be an assured tenancy if it be not for a term of more than seven year , ( b ) be not a shared ownership lease , and ( c ) be grant by a private register provider of social housing . " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 1B ) , for " in subsection ( 1A ) " substitute " in this section " . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment ensure that long tenancy that would contain statutory repair obligation if grant now will still contain those obligation even if they be grant after clause 25 come into force ( such that they be not assure tenancy ) . clause 27 - discrimination relate to child Amendments make : 81 , page 30 , line 24 , after " on " insert " an agreement which may give rise to " . this amendment make it clear that thing do in relation to a future tenancy be not exclude merely because it be possible that the dwelling will not be the tenant ' s principal home ( since in a case in which it be not the tenant ' s principal home , the tenancy would not be an assured tenancy ) . Amendment 82 , page 30 , line 26 , after " would " insert " or may " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment align this provision with the similar one be insert for Scotland and ensure that a landlord or agent be prohibit from discriminate against people with child on that basis even if they be not sure that child would live with or visit the person . clause 28 - discrimination relate to benefit status Amendments make : 83 , page 31 , line 29 , after " on " insert " an agreement which may give rise to " . this amendment make it clear that thing do in relation to a future tenancy be not exclude merely because it be possible that the dwelling will not be the tenant ' s principal home ( since in a case in which it be not the tenant ' s principal home , the tenancy would not be an assured tenancy ) . amendment 84 , page 31 , line 31 , after " be " insert " or may be " . this amendment align this provision with the similar one be insert for Scotland and ensure that a landlord or agent be prohibit from discriminate against benefit claimant on that basis even if they be not sure that the person be a benefit claimant . amendment 85 , page 32 , line 5 , leave out " prospective landlord " and insert " insure " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment ensure that the closing word of clause 28 ( 2 ) refer back to either the prospective landlord or the superior landlord mention in the opening word , and match clause 27 ( 2 ) . clause 34 - Power of the Secretary of State to amend Chapter 3 to protect other Amendments make : 86 , page 36 , line 8 , leave out " amend this chapter so as to " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 87 . amendment 87 , page 36 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) regulation under subsection ( 1 ) may amend , repeal or revoke provision make by or under an Act , whenever pass or make ( include this Act ) . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment make the power of the Secretary of State match those of the Welsh and Scottish Ministers , by allow regulation that make corresponding provision to amend any Act or secondary legislation , not just this chapter . clause 36 - Interpretation of chapter 3 Amendments make : 88 , page 36 , line 19 , after " payment " insert " ( include payment make directly to a landlord ) " . this amendment make it clear that entitlement to payment which be make directly to a landlord may qualify a person as a benefit claimant . amendment 89 , page 36 , line 22 , at end insert — " ( b ) be entitle to payment ( include payment make directly to a landlord ) under or by virtue of the Jobseekers Act 1995 , the State Pension Credit Act 2002 , the Tax Credits Act 2002 , the Welfare Reform Act 2007 or the Pensions Act 2014 , ( c ) be in receipt of a reduction in the amount of council tax payable in respect of the person ' s current home under a scheme make by a billing authority under or by virtue of section 13a of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 , or ( d ) would be entitle to a reduction in the amount of council tax payable in respect of the dwelling in question under a scheme make by the billing authority in whose area the dwelling be situate under or by virtue of section 13a of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 , if the person be to — ( i ) rent the dwelling on a relevant tenancy , and ( ii ) if an application be a precondition of entitlement , apply to the billing authority for a reduction under the scheme . " this amendment amend the definition of " benefit claimant " which apply for the purpose of the provision of the Bill about discrimination on the basis of child or benefit status , by add to the list of benefit legislation and add person who would be eligible for a council tax discount under the billing authority ' s reduction scheme or who already receive a reduction . amendment 90 , page 36 , line 27 , after " on " insert " an agreement which may give rise to " . this amendment make it clear that a propose letting be not exclude merely because it be possible that the dwelling will not be the tenant ' s principal home ( since in a case in which it be not the tenant ' s principal home , the tenancy would not be an assured tenancy ) . amendment 91 , page 37 , line 2 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) in this chapter a reference to do something on the basis of particular fact include reference to do it on the basis of a belief in those fact . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment be to make it clear that the prohibition apply where the relevant person believe the person against whom they be discriminate would have a child live with or visit they , or be a benefit claimant , even if that belief be erroneous . clause 37 - discrimination relate to child or benefit status : Welsh language Amendments make : 92 , page 37 , line 23 , after " annedd " insert " , neu y gallai plentyn fyw gyda pherson neu ymweld â pherson yn yr annedd , " . this amendment align this provision with the similar one be insert for Scotland and ensure that it be an offence for a landlord or agent to discriminate against people with child on that basis even if they be not sure that child would live with or visit the person . amendment 93 , page 38 , line 12 , leave out " darpar landlord " and insert " person sydd wedi ei yswirio " . this amendment ensure that the closing word of section 8a ( 3 ) that the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 refer back to either the prospective landlord or the superior landlord mention in the opening word . amendment 94 , page 38 , line 19 , after " bod person yn hawlydd budd - daliadau " insert " neu y gallai fod yn hawlydd budd - daliadau " . this amendment align this provision with the similar one be insert for Scotland and ensure that it be an offence for a landlord or agent to discriminate against benefit claimant on that basis even if they be not sure that the person be a benefit claimant . amendment 95 , page 38 , line 41 , leave out " darpar landlord " and insert " person sydd wedi ei yswirio " . this amendment ensure that the closing word of section 8b ( 2 ) that the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 refer back to either the prospective landlord or the superior landlord mention in the opening word . amendment 96 , page 42 , leave out line 5 to 10 . this amendment remove section 8J which the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 . the substance of section 8J be reinserte into the Bill by a new clause . amendment 97 , page 42 , line 11 , leave out " 8 k " and insert " 8J " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 96 . amendment 98 , page 42 , line 22 , after " taliadau " insert " ( gan gynnwys taliadau a wneir yn uniongyrchol I landlord ) " . this amendment be to the text that the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 and make it clear that entitlement to payment which be make directly to a landlord may qualify a person as a benefit claimant . amendment 99 , page 42 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( b ) sydd â hawl I gael taliadau ( gan gynnwys taliadau a wneir yn uniongyrchol I landlord ) o dan neu yn rhinwedd Deddf Ceiswyr Gwaith 1995 , Deddf Credyd Pensiwn y Wladwriaeth 2002 , Deddf Credydau Treth 2002 , Deddf Diwygio Lles 2007 neu Ddeddf Pensiynau 2014 , ( c ) sy ' n cael gostyngiad yn swm y dreth gyngor sy ' n daladwy mewn perthyna â chartref presennol y person o dan gynllun a wneir gin awdurdod bilio o dan neu yn rhinwedd adran 13A o Ddeddf Cyllid Llywodraeth Leol 1992 , neu ( d ) a fyddai â ' r hawl I gael gostyngiad yn swm y dreth gyngor sy ' n daladwy mewn perthyna â ' r annedd o dan sylw o dan gynllun a wneir gan yr awdurdod bilio y mae ' r annedd yn ei ardal o dan neu yn rhinwedd adran 13A o Ddeddf Cyllid Llywodraeth Leol 1992 , pe bai ' r person — ( i ) yn rhentu ' r annedd o dan gontract meddiannaeth , a ( ii ) os yw gwneud cais yn rhagamod ar gyfer hawlio gostyngiad , yn gwneud cais I ' r awdurdod bilio be ostyngiad o dan y cynllun . " this amendment expand the definition of " benefit claimant " which apply for the purpose of the provision that the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 about discrimination on the basis of child or benefit status . amendment 100 , page 42 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) Yn y Rhan hon , mae cyfeiriad at wneud rhywbeth ar sail ffeithiau penodol yn cynnwys cyfeiriad at wneud hynny ar sail cre yn y ffeithiau hynny . " this amendment be to make it clear that the offence create by section 8a that the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 may be commit where the relevant person believe the person against whom they be discriminate would have a child live with or visit they or be a benefit claimant even if that belief be erroneous . amendment 101 , page 43 , line 17 , leave out " 8 k " and insert " 8J " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 96 . Amendment 102 , page 43 , line 30 , leave out " adran 8J , " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 96 . clause 38 - discrimination relate to child or benefit status : english language Amendments make : 103 , page 44 , line 7 , after " would " insert " or may " . this amendment align this provision with the similar one be insert for Scotland and ensure that it be an offence for a landlord or agent to discriminate against people with child on that basis even if they be not sure that child would live with or visit the person . Amendment 104 , page 44 , line 31 , leave out " prospective landlord " and insert " insure " . this amendment ensure that the closing word of section 8a ( 3 ) that the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 refer back to either the prospective landlord or the superior landlord mention in the opening word . amendment 105 , page 44 , line 38 , after " be " insert " or may be " . this amendment align this provision with the similar one be insert for Scotland and ensure that it be an offence for a landlord or agent to discriminate against benefit claimant on that basis even if they be not sure that the person be a benefit claimant . amendment 106 , page 45 , line 16 , leave out " prospective landlord " and insert " insure " this amendment ensure that the closing word of section 8b ( 2 ) that the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 refer back to either the prospective landlord or the superior landlord mention in the opening word . amendment 107 , page 48 , leave out line 14 to 19 . this amendment remove section 8J which the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 . the substance of section 8J be reinserte into the Bill by a new clause . amendment 108 , page 48 , line 20 , leave out " 8 k " and insert " 8J " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 107 . amendment 109 , page 48 , line 23 , after " payment " insert " ( include payment make directly to a landlord ) " this amendment be to the text that the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 and make it clear that entitlement to payment which be make directly to a landlord may qualify a person as a benefit claimant . amendment 110 , page 48 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( b ) be entitle to payment ( include payment make directly to a landlord ) under or by virtue of the Jobseekers Act 1995 , the State Pension Credit Act 2002 , the Tax Credits Act 2002 , the Welfare Reform Act 2007 or the Pensions Act 2014 , ( c ) be in receipt of a reduction in the amount of council tax payable in respect of the person ' s current home under a scheme make by a billing authority under or by virtue of section 13a of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 , or ( d ) would be entitle to a reduction in the amount of council tax payable in respect of the dwelling in question under a scheme make by the billing authority in whose area the dwelling be situate under or by virtue of section 13a of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 , if the person be to — ( i ) rent the dwelling under an occupation contract , and ( ii ) if an application be a precondition of entitlement , apply to the billing authority for a reduction under the scheme . " this amendment expand the definition of " benefit claimant " which apply for the purpose of the provision that the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 about discrimination on the basis of child or benefit status . amendment 111 , page 48 , line 40 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) in this part a reference to do something on the basis of particular fact include reference to do it on the basis of a belief in those fact . " this amendment be to make it clear that the offence create by section 8a and 8b that the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 may be commit where the relevant person believe the person against whom they be discriminate would have a child live with or visit they or be a benefit claimant even if that belief be erroneous . amendment 112 , page 49 , line 19 , leave out " 8 k " and insert " 8J " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 107 . amendment 113 , page 49 , line 32 , leave out " section 8J , " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 107 . clause 40 - Regulations Amendment make : 115 , page 51 , line 2 , leave out " or 8J " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 107 . Amendment make : 116 , page 51 , line 3 , after " this Act ) " insert " or section ( Power of Welsh Ministers to extend protection to person of other description ) ( 1 ) of this Act " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 107 and amendment NC16 . order , that clause 40 be transfer to the end of line 34 on page 53 . — ( Jacob Young . ) clause 41 - amendment of Renting Homes ( Wales ) Act 2016 regard discrimination Amendments make : 117 , page 52 , line 3 , leave out from " rhag " to end of line 5 and insert — " bod yn hawlydd budd - daliadau o fewn yr ystyr a roddir gan adran 8J o Ddeddf Rhentu Cartrefi ( Ffioedd , Gwahaniaethu etc . ) ( cymru ) 2019 . " this amendment cross - refer to the definition of " benefit claimant " which the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 about discrimination on the basis of child or benefit status , as amend by amendment 99 . amendment 118 , page 53 , line 16 , leave out from " from " to end of line 18 and insert — " be a benefit claimant within the meaning give by section 8J of the Renting Homes ( fee , discrimination etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment cross - refer to the definition of " benefit claimant " which the Bill insert into the Renting Homes ( fee etc . ) ( Wales ) Act 2019 about discrimination on the basis of child or benefit status , as amend by amendment 110 . clause 44 - mean of " residential landlord " Amendments make : 119 , page 58 , line 34 , leave out " an assured tenancy that be a sub - tenancy " , and insert " a relevant tenancy " . this amendment , together with amendment 120 , allow regulation under clause 44 ( 4 ) ( a ) to change the meaning of residential landlord so as to cover superior landlord in relation to a relevant tenancy as well as , or instead of , the immediate landlord . this will allow Part 2 to cover superior landlord under rent - to - rent arrangement where the occupier be a licensee as well as where the occupier be a tenant . amendment 120 , page 59 , line 1 , after " to " insert " or instead of " . this amendment , together with amendment 119 , allow regulation under clause 44 ( 4 ) ( a ) that change the meaning of residential landlord to provide for the term to cover superior landlord instead of immediate landlord . amendment 121 , page 59 , line 19 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) kind of tenancy or licence add or remove under subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) may be identify by reference to any matter connect directly or indirectly with a tenancy or licence , include the characteristic or circumstance of any person who be so connected . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment be design to make it clear that the Secretary of State can add or remove tenancy by reference to any connected matter , include the characteristic or circumstance of connected person such as the landlord or the tenant . clause 46 - approval and designation of landlord redress scheme Amendments make : 122 , page 61 , line 19 , leave out " which " and insert — " ( 2A ) the condition " . this and amendment 129 be clarificatory amendment ensure that the specific provision in the Bill about condition of approval for redress scheme do not limit the Secretary of State ' s discretion about what other condition to include in the regulation on that topic . amendment 123 , page 61 , line 21 , leave out from " the " in the first place it occur , to " to " in line 23 and insert " appointment of an individual " . this amendment remove the provision for regulation under clause 46 to require a scheme to provide for the administrator , with the Secretary of State ' s approval , to appoint the individual who oversee complaint . this will enable the regulation to impose a wide range of condition about that individual , for example ( give clause 46 ( 7 ) as amend by amendment 131 ) provision for the Secretary of State to appoint they . amendment 124 , page 61 , line 24 , at end insert — " ( aa ) about the term and condition of that individual and the termination of their appointment , " this amendment ensure that a scheme will have to include provision , in accordance with regulation under clause 46 , about term and condition of the individual who oversee complaint and the termination of that individual ' s appointment . give clause 46 ( 7 ) as amend by amendment 131 , regulation could , for example , provide for the Secretary of State to be able to decide that the individual ' s appointment should be terminate . Amendment 125 , page 61 , line 35 , leave out " under other redress scheme " and insert " in relation to other kind of complaint " . this amendment widen the reference to complaint in clause 46 ( 2 ) ( e ) so that it be not limit to complaint under redress scheme . amendment 126 , page 62 , line 3 , after first " of " insert " , and the investigation and determination of complaint under , " . this amendment clarify that the requirement for fee income to be sufficient to meet cost of administer voluntary aspect of a redress scheme also apply in relation to the cost of investigation and determination of complaint under those aspect of a scheme . amendment 127 , page 62 , line 30 , leave out " under subsection ( 2 ) ( n ) " and insert " by virtue of subsection ( 2A ) ( n ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 122 . amendment 128 , clause 46 , page 62 , line 34 , leave out " under subsection ( 2 ) ( n ) " and insert " by virtue of subsection ( 2A ) ( n ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 122 . amendment 129 , page 62 , line 38 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) subsection ( 2A ) to ( 5 ) do not limit the condition that may be set out in regulation under subsection ( 2 ) . " this and amendment 122 be clarificatory amendment ensure that the specific provision in the Bill about condition of approval for a redress scheme do not limit the Secretary of State ' s discretion about what other condition to include in the regulation on that topic . amendment 130 , page 63 , line 6 , after " scheme " insert " and the investigation and determination of complaint under those aspect of the scheme " . this amendment clarify that fee can be calculate by reference to the cost of investigation and determination of complaint under the compulsory aspect of a redress scheme ( as well as its wide administration ) . amendment 131 , page 63 , line 8 , leave out from " may " to end of line 9 and insert — " ( a ) confer function ( include function involve the exercise of a discretion ) on the Secretary of State , or authorise or require a scheme to do so ; ( b ) provide for the delegation of such function by the Secretary of State , or authorise or require a scheme to provide for that . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment make it clear that regulation under clause 46 can confer function on the Secretary of State ( whether or not they involve a discretion ) and can make provision for the delegation of such function . clause 52 - housing activity under social rent sector scheme Amendments make : 132 , page 66 , line 27 , leave out " paragraph 4 of paragraph 2 ( 1 ) , " and insert " paragraph 2 ( 1 ) — ( a ) in paragraph 4 , " this amendment be consequential on amendment 133 . amendment 133 , page 66 , line 30 , at end insert — " ( b ) after paragraph 7 insert — " 7a where the scheme provide for the housing ombudsman to be employ by the person administer the scheme , provision for the enforcement of direction give under paragraph 10 ( 3 ) ( b ) . " " this amendment ensure that a scheme which provide for the housing ombudsman to be employ by the scheme administrator will have to include provision for enforce any direction give by the Secretary of State require the administrator to cease to employ the individual who be housing ombudsman as housing ombudsman . amendment 134 , page 67 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) for paragraph 10 substitute — " 10 " ( 1 ) the housing ombudsman for the purpose of an approve scheme be to be appoint by the Secretary of State on such term as the Secretary of State think fit . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may at any time remove a housing ombudsman from office . ( 3 ) in relation to an approve scheme which provide for the housing ombudsman to be employ by the person administer the scheme — ( a ) the reference in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) to the term on which the housing ombudsman be appoint include a reference to the term of the housing ombudsman ' s employment by that person ; ( b ) the power of the Secretary of State under sub - paragraph ( 2 ) to remove a housing ombudsman from office include power to give the person administer the scheme a direction in writing to cease to employ the individual who be housing ombudsman as housing ombudsman ( and a direction under this paragraph may be revoke or vary by a further direction under this paragraph ) . ( 4 ) where an approve scheme do not provide that it be to be administer by a body corporate — ( a ) the Secretary of State may by order provide that the housing ombudsman for the purpose of the scheme be to be a corporation sole , and ( b ) the staff to administer the scheme and otherwise assist the ombudsman in the discharge of function be to be appoint and employ by the ombudsman . ( 5 ) where an approve scheme provide that it be to be administer by a body corporate the Secretary of State may delegate function under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) to the body administer the scheme . ( 6 ) a delegation under sub - paragraph ( 5 ) may specify — ( a ) the extent to which the function be delegate ; ( b ) any condition to which the delegation be subject . ( 7 ) a delegation under sub - paragraph ( 5 ) — ( a ) must be in writing ; ( b ) may be varied or revoke by the Secretary of State , in writing , at any time ; ( c ) do not prevent the Secretary of State from exercise the function . ( 8 ) a housing ombudsman be not to be regard as the servant or agent of the Crown or as enjoy any status , privilege or immunity of the Crown or as exempt from any tax , duty , rate , levy or other charge whatsoever , whether general or local , and any property hold by a housing ombudsman be not to be regard as property of , or hold on behalf of , the Crown . " " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment substitute a new paragraph 10 into Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1996 , which will provide for the Secretary of State to appoint and remove the housing ombudsman whether or not the scheme be administer by a body corporate , and to be able to delegate those function to the administrator of a housing ombudsman scheme where the administrator be a body corporate . clause 66 - use of information from the database Amendment make : 135 , page 77 , line 5 , leave out " this Part " and insert " the provision of the landlord legislation for which it be responsible " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment will allow a lead enforcement authority to use information obtain from the database for purpose connect with any provision of the landlord legislation ( as define in clause 79 ( 5 ) ) for which it be responsible . clause 72 - interpretation of chapter 3 Amendments make : 136 , page 81 , line 26 , leave out " have the same meaning " and insert " and " the landlord legislation " have the same meaning " . this amendment provide for the definition of " the landlord legislation " in Part 4 also to apply for the purpose of chapter 3 of Part 2 , and be consequential on amendment 135 . amendment 137 , page 81 , line 29 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) section 83 ( 6 ) ( lead enforcement authority " responsible " for the provision of the landlord legislation ) apply for the purpose of this chapter as it apply for the purpose of Part 4 . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment provide for clause 83 ( 6 ) , which identify the provision of the landlord legislation for which a lead enforcement authority be responsible , to apply for the purpose of chapter 3 of Part 2 as it apply for the purpose of Part 4 . this amendment be consequential on amendment 135 . clause 78 - rent repayment order Amendment make : 196 , page 86 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 7 ) in section 52 ( interpretation ) , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 3 ) in the case of an application for a rent repayment order make , or to be make , against a superior landlord — ( a ) reference in this chapter to the landlord be to be read as reference to the superior landlord , and ( b ) housing in relation to which the person in question be a superior landlord be to be treat for the purpose of this chapter as let by that person . " " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment ensure that reference to a landlord , and to housing let by a landlord , in the provision of the Housing and Planning Act 2016 deal with rent repayment order , work satisfactorily in case involve order make against superior landlord . clause 90 - business premise : entry without warrant Amendment make : 138 , page 95 , line 39 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment remove the exception from the meaning of " routine inspection " for case where a breach of or offence under rent accommodation legislation be suspect . this exception be an error . it would apply to every inspection give that the power in clause 94 and 95 be limit to case in which there be such a suspect breach or offence . clause 109 - Interpretation Amendments make : 139 , page 107 , line 29 , at end insert — " " lease " include any tenancy ; " this amendment make it clear that the reference to a lease in the Bill be to be read widely as include any tenancy . amendment 197 , page 107 , line 32 , after " London " insert " ( in its capacity as a local authority ) " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment make it clear that the reference to the Common Council of the City of London in clause 109 be to that Council in its capacity as a local authority . clause 112 - Regulations Amendments make : 140 , page 109 , line 30 , after " power " insert " of the Secretary of State and the Scottish Ministers " this amendment be consequential on amendment 141 . amendment 141 , page 109 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the power of the Welsh Ministers under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) to make transitional provision include power to provide for regulation to apply ( with or without modification ) in relation to occupation contract grant , renew or continue , or advertising begin , before the date on which the regulation come into force . " this amendment clarify that the power of the Welsh Ministers to make transitional provision in connection with regulation under chapter 4 extend to pre - exist occupation contract . amendment 142 , page 109 , line 34 , at end insert " , except where they be make by the Scottish Ministers ( see section 27 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 10 ) ) " this amendment disapplie the provision for regulation under the Bill to be make by statutory instrument in relation to new regulation - make power of the Scottish Ministers that be add by other amendment . regulation of the Scottish Ministers be make by scottish statutory instrument as a result of the 2010 asp refer to in the amendment . amendment 143 , page 109 , line 35 , after " section " insert " ( Powers of Secretary of State in connection with chapter 1 ) " . this amendment be consequential on new clause NC14 and provide for regulation under it to be subject to affirmative procedure in Parliament . Amendment 144 , page 109 , line 35 , after " 34 , " insert " ( Power of Secretary of State to extend protection to person of other description : Wales ) , ( power of Secretary of State to extend protection to person of other description : Scotland ) " . this amendment provide for the new power of the Secretary of State to make provision regard discrimination in Wales and Scotland where there be a restriction because of legislative competence to be exercise use the affirmative resolution procedure . amendment 221 , page 109 , line 41 , at end insert " , unless it contain regulation under section 83 ( 3 ) only " . this amendment make regulation under clause 83 ( 3 ) ( transitional or saving provision which apply when there be a change in lead enforcement authority ) subject to no parliamentary procedure . amendment 145 , page 109 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) a statutory instrument contain regulation make by the Welsh Ministers under section ( Power of Welsh Ministers to extend protection to person of other description ) ( 1 ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of Senedd Cymru . " this amendment be consequential on amendment NC16 and provide for the power grant to the Welsh Ministers to be subject to the affirmative procedure . amendment 146 , page 109 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 5B ) Regulations make by the Scottish Ministers under section ( power of the Scottish Ministers to extend protection to person of other description ) be subject to the affirmative procedure ( see section 29 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 10 ) ) . " this amendment be consequential on amendment nc21 and provide for the power grant to the Scottish Ministers to be subject to the affirmative procedure . amendment 222 , page 109 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 5c ) if a draft of a statutory instrument contain regulation under section 45 would , apart from this subsection , be treat for the purpose of the stand order of either House of Parliament as a hybrid instrument , it be to proceed in that House as if it be not a hybrid instrument . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment prevent the hybrid instrument procedure in Parliament from apply in relation to regulation under clause 45 of the Bill . clause 114 - Power of Secretary of State to make consequential provision Amendments make : 147 , page 111 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( b ) in relation to regulation that make provision that be consequential on chapter 1 or 2 of Part 1 , power to provide for pre - application instrument which the Secretary of State consider do not ( or will not ) operate appropriately as a result of any provision of the regulation to — ( i ) have effect with specify modification , or ( ii ) cease to have effect ( in whole or in part ) . ( 4A ) for the purpose of subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) — ( a ) ' pre - application instrument ' mean an agreement or other instrument make before the regulation come into force ; ( b ) the circumstance in which the Secretary of State may consider that a pre - application instrument do not operate appropriately as a result of regulation under this section include ( but be not limit to ) those in which — ( i ) as a result of any provision of the regulation , provision make by the instrument be to any extent spend , obsolete , unnecessary or otherwise not of practical utility ; ( ii ) as a result of any provision of the regulation , it be unclear what the effect be of provision make by the instrument ; ( iii ) as a result of any provision of the regulation , a person may be place in breach of obligation arise under the instrument or make subject to more burdensome obligation under the instrument ; ( iv ) the instrument make direct or indirect reference to any enactment as it have effect before be amend by the regulation . ( 4b ) regulation make by virtue of subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) must provide that they do not prevent — ( a ) the variation or revocation of provision modify by the regulation , or ( b ) the re - making of provision that have cease to have effect as a result of the regulation . ( 4C ) Regulations make by virtue of subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) may apply to an instrument as it have effect in relation to time before the come into force of the regulation but after the commencement date ( within the meaning give by section ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 1 ) ( a ) ) . " this amendment make provision like amendment 156 but in relation to consequential amendment make under clause 114 in consequence of chapter 1 or 2 of Part 1 of the Bill . it allow regulation to make transitional provision modify instrument ( e . g . lease , mortgage agreement , insurance contract ) that be draft under the law as it stand before the regulation and so do not operate appropriately alongside they . amendment 148 , page 111 , line 7 , after " Act " insert " , or ( b ) be make by virtue of subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) , " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 147 and ensure that regulation that modify instrument be subject to affirmative procedure in Parliament . clause 115 - financial penalty : procedure , appeal and enforcement Amendments make : 149 , page 111 , line 13 , leave out " subsection " and insert " subsection ( 1A ) to " this amendment be consequential on amendment 150 . amendment 150 , page 111 , line 13 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) in Part 1 , Chapter 4A extend to Scotland only . ( 1b ) this Part extend to England , Wales and Scotland . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment adjust the extent of the Bill to take account of the clause which have be add which relate to Scotland . clause 116 - commencement and application Amendment make : 151 , page 111 , line 16 , leave out clause 116 — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment and amendment NC27 and NC28 be , together , intend to achieve the result that clause 116 be replace with two clause , one deal with commencement and one deal with application of chapter 1 of Part 1 . Amendment propose : 28 , page 111 , line 19 , at end insert " , save that section 2 ( b ) come into force on the day on which this Act be pass only to the extent that it repeal section 21 of the Housing Act 1988 ; such repeal will not affect the validity of any notice serve under that provision on or before the day on which this Act be pass and the provision of that section will continue to apply to any claim issue in respect of such a notice " . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) this amendment would ensure that the abolition of section 21 eviction would come into force on Royal Assent , with save provision for any notice serve before that date . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Gregory Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Jonathan Edwards Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Stephen Farry Richard Foord Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss George Galloway Barry Gardiner Mary Glindon Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Anna McMorrin Navendu Mishra Layla Moran Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Lucy Powell Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Jamie Stone Wes Streeting Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Catherine West Matt Western Alan Whitehead Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Colleen Fletcher Christian Wakeford Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt David Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince John Redwood Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Mary Robinson Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Robin Walker Ben Wallace Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler John Whittingdale James Wild Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Joy Morrissey Mark Jenkinson the House divide : Ayes 158 , Noes 282 . question accordingly negative . clause 117 - transitional provision Amendments make : 152 , page 113 , line 2 , leave out " order " and insert " regulation " . this amendment provide for the Welsh Ministers ' power to make transitional provision to be exercisable by regulation rather than by order . amendment 153 , page 113 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Scottish Ministers may by regulation make transitional or save provision in connection with the come into force of any provision of chapter 4A of Part 1 ( see section 27 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform ( Scotland ) Act 2010 ( asp 10 ) , as a result of which such regulation be to be make by scottish statutory instrument ) . " this amendment allow the Scottish Ministers to make transitional or save provision in connection with the come into force of the new chapter 4A of Part 1 ( contain prohibition on discrimination in relation to tenancy in Scotland ) . amendment 154 , page 113 , line 9 , leave out " an order " and insert " regulation " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 152 . amendment 155 , page 113 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) the power to make regulation under subsection ( 1A ) include power to provide for a provision of chapter 4A of Part 1 to apply ( with or without modification ) in relation to tenancy enter into , or advertising begin , before the date on which the provision come into force . " this amendment ensure that the power of the Scottish Ministers to make transitional provision in connection with the come into force of the new chapter 4A of Part 1 ( contain prohibition on discrimination in relation to tenancy in Scotland ) be of the same breadth as the correspond power of the Welsh Ministers and the Secretary of State . Amendment 156 , page 113 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( b ) power to provide for pre - application instrument which the Secretary of State consider do not ( or will not ) operate appropriately as a result of any provision of chapter 1 or 2 of Part 1 to — ( i ) have effect with specify modification , or ( ii ) cease to have effect ( in whole or in part ) . ( 4A ) for the purpose of subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) — ( a ) " pre - application instrument " mean an agreement or other instrument make before the extend application date ( within the meaning give by section ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 3 ) ) ; ( b ) the circumstance in which the Secretary of State may consider that a pre - application instrument do not operate appropriately as a result of chapter 1 or 2 of Part 1 include ( but be not limit to ) those in which — ( i ) as a result of any provision of chapter 1 or 2 of Part 1 , provision make by the instrument be to any extent spend , obsolete , unnecessary or otherwise not of practical utility ; ( ii ) as a result of any provision of chapter 1 or 2 of Part 1 , it be unclear what the effect be of provision make by the instrument ; ( iii ) as a result of any provision of chapter 1 or 2 of Part 1 , a person may be place in breach of obligation arise under the instrument or make subject to more burdensome obligation under the instrument ; ( iv ) the instrument make direct or indirect reference to fix term assure tenancy or assure shorthold tenancy ( within the meaning of Part 1 of the 1988 Act as it have effect immediately before the commencement date ) ; ( v ) the instrument make direct or indirect reference to periodic assured tenancy that be not relevant assured tenancy within the meaning give by section ( section 1 and 2 : effect of superior lease ) ; ( vi ) the instrument otherwise make direct or indirect reference to any enactment as it have effect before be amend by chapter 1 or 2 of Part 1 . ( 4b ) regulation make by virtue of subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) must provide that they do not prevent — ( a ) the variation or revocation of provision modify by the regulation , or ( b ) the re - making of provision that have cease to have effect as a result of the regulation . ( 4C ) Regulations make by virtue of subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) may apply to an instrument as it have effect in relation to time before the come into force of the regulation but after the commencement date . ( 4d ) a statutory instrument contain regulation make by virtue of subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) ( whether alone or with other provision ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . ( 4e ) in this section " the commencement date " have the meaning give by section ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 1 ) ( a ) . " this amendment allow the Secretary of State to make transitional provision modify the effect of instrument ( such as lease , mortgage agreement or insurance contract ) that be draft under the law as it stand before the change make by chapter 1 and 2 of the Bill and so do not operate appropriately alongside those Chapters . Amendment 157 , page 113 , line 17 , leave out " subsection ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) " and insert " this section " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment 153 . new Schedule 1 - amendment in connection with landlord redress scheme " Local Government Act 1974 1 ( 1 ) the Local Government Act 1974 be amend in accordance with paragraph 2 to 5 . 2 ( 1 ) section 33 ( consultation between Local Commissioner and other Commissioners and Ombudsmen ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) before paragraph ( ba ) insert — " ( bzc ) under a landlord redress scheme , " ; ( b ) in the word after paragraph ( c ) — ( i ) for " or Ombudsman " substitute " , Ombudsman or head of landlord redress " ; ( ii ) before " the Public Services Ombudsman ( Wales ) Act 2005 " insert " the landlord redress scheme , " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) — ( a ) before " the Public Services Ombudsman for Wales " insert " the head of landlord redress , " ; ( b ) for " Commissioner or that Ombudsman " substitute " person " . ( 4 ) before subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 3c ) if at any stage in the course of an investigation under a landlord redress scheme , the head of landlord redress form the opinion that the complaint relate partly to a matter which could be the subject of an investigation under this Part of this Act , the head of landlord redress must consult with the appropriate Local Commissioner about the complaint and , if the head of landlord redress consider it necessary , inform the person initiate the complaint of the step necessary to initiate a complaint under this Part of this Act . " ( 5 ) in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) for " or ( 3b ) " substitute " , ( 3b ) or ( 3c ) " ; ( b ) for " or the new home ombudsman scheme " substitute " , the new home ombudsman scheme or a landlord redress scheme " . 3 ( 1 ) section 33za ( collaborative work between Local Commissioners and other ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( c ) omit the final " or " ; ( b ) at the end of paragraph ( d ) insert " or ( e ) an individual who investigate complaint under a landlord redress scheme , " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 1A ) for " or ( d ) " substitute " , ( d ) or ( e ) " . ( 4 ) after subsection ( 1A ) insert — " ( 1b ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) and ( 1A ) a matter be " within the jurisdiction " of an individual who investigate complaint under a landlord redress scheme if it be a matter which could be the subject of an investigation under that scheme . " ( 5 ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( c ) omit the final " or " ; ( b ) at the end of paragraph ( d ) insert " or ( e ) an individual who investigate complaint under a landlord redress scheme , " ; ( c ) in the word follow paragraph ( d ) for " or ( d ) " substitute " , ( d ) or ( e ) " . 4 in section 33zb ( arrangement for provision of administrative and other service ) , in subsection ( 4 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( e ) omit the final " and " ; ( b ) at the end of paragraph ( f ) insert " , and ( g ) the administrator of a landlord redress scheme " . 5 in section 34 ( interpretation ) in subsection ( 1 ) , at the appropriate place insert — " " landlord redress scheme " have the meaning give by section 45 ( 2 ) of the Renters ( Reform ) Act 2024 ; " " " head of landlord redress " , in relation to a landlord redress scheme , mean the person responsible for oversee and monitor the investigation and determination of complaint under the scheme ; " . Housing Act 1996 6 ( 1 ) paragraph 10a of Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1996 ( housing complaint : collaborative work with Local Commissioners ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in sub - paragraph ( 1 ) — ( a ) for " or the new home ombudsman " substitute " , the new home ombudsman or an individual who investigate complaint under a landlord redress scheme " ; ( b ) for the word from " that Commissioner " to the end substitute " any one or more of they " . ( 3 ) after sub - paragraph ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) for the purpose of sub - paragraph ( 1 ) a matter be " within the jurisdiction " of an individual who investigate complaint under a landlord redress scheme if it be a matter which could be the subject of an investigation under that scheme . " ( 4 ) in sub - paragraph ( 3 ) — ( a ) for " or the new home ombudsman " substitute " , the new home ombudsman or an individual who investigate complaint under a landlord redress scheme ( or two or more of they ) " ; ( b ) for the word from " that Commissioner " to the end substitute " they " . ( 5 ) in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) for " a Local Commissioner , the new home ombudsman ( or both ) " substitute " one or more person " . ( 6 ) after sub - paragraph ( 5 ) insert — " ( 6 ) in this paragraph " landlord redress scheme " have the meaning give by section 45 ( 2 ) of the Renters ( Reform ) Act 2024 . " Building Safety Act 2022 7 in paragraph 3 ( 5 ) of Schedule 3 to the Building Safety Act 2022 — ( a ) in paragraph ( c ) omit the final " or " ; ( b ) at the end of paragraph ( d ) insert " , or — ( e ) a landlord redress scheme within the meaning give by section 45 ( 2 ) of the Renters ( Reform ) Act 2024 " — ( Jacob Young . ) this new schedule contain amendment connect with landlord redress scheme . bring up , and add to the Bill . schedule 1 - change to ground for possession amendment make : 223 , page 114 , line 9 , leave out " date specify in the notice under section 8 " and insert " relevant date " . this amendment , together with amendment 237 , provide for the application of Ground 1 in Schedule 2 to the 1988 Act as amend by the Bill in a case in which the court dispense with the requirement for a possession notice Amendment 224 , page 115 , line 7 , leave out " date specify in the notice under section 8 " and insert " relevant date " . this amendment , together with amendment 237 , provide for the application of new Ground 1a in Schedule 2 to the 1988 Act as insert by the Bill in a case in which the court dispense with the requirement for a possession notice . amendment 225 , page 115 , leave out line 10 to 14 and insert — " ( ii ) notice of a compulsory acquisition in relation to the dwelling - house have be give , the landlord intend to sell their interest in the dwelling - house to the acquire authority and the acquire authority intend to acquire it ; " . this amendment to new Ground 1a ( possession for sale by landlord ) in Schedule 2 to the 1988 Act , together with amendment 238 , extend paragraph ( c ) ( ii ) of that ground to compulsory acquisition via route other than a compulsory purchase order and from first notice of the compulsory acquisition process . amendment 158 , page 115 , line 36 , at end insert — " or ( iii ) to grant an assured tenancy to another person pursuant to a rent - to - buy agreement ; " . this amendment extend the ground of possession for rent - to - buy dwelling - house ( ground 1B , insert into the 1988 Act by the Bill ) to cover case where the landlord want to re - let the dwelling - house to a different rent - to - buy tenant . amendment 159 , page 116 , line 29 , after " tenancy " insert " as a result of which the superior tenancy will end within the period of 12 month begin with the relevant date " . this amendment limit a landlord ' s ability to rely on paragraph ( a ) ( i ) of the new Ground 2ZA to case in which the notice to terminate by the superior landlord will take effect within 12 month of " the relevant date " as define in amendment 237 . amendment 160 , page 116 , line 30 , leave out " for a fix term which will end " and insert " a fix term tenancy of a term certain which will expire ( if the tenancy do not come to an end early ) " . this amendment be intend to make the drafting of Ground 2ZA consistent with the drafting of the new Ground 2ZB insert by amendment 161 and of clause 25 . amendment 161 , page 117 , line 7 , at end insert — " Ground 2ZB the landlord who be seek possession hold the interest in the dwelling - house under a superior tenancy which be a fix term tenancy of a term certain of more than 21 year and — ( a ) the fix term will expire ( if the tenancy do not come to an end early ) within the period of 12 month begin with the relevant date , or ( b ) if the superior tenancy have continue follow the expiry of the fix term , any party to the superior tenancy have serve a valid notice to terminate that tenancy as a result of which the superior tenancy will end within the period of 12 month begin with the relevant date . " this amendment allow any landlord under an assured tenancy who hold their interest in a dwelling under a superior fix term lease of more than 21 year to obtain possession of the dwelling where the superior lease be come to an end at the end of the fix term or after the fix term . " the relevant date " be define in amendment 237 . amendment 163 , page 117 , line 8 , leave out " 2ZB " and insert " 2ZC " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 161 . amendment 164 , page 117 , line 23 , at end insert — " ground 2ZD the landlord who be seek possession become the landlord by virtue of section 18 , no more than 6 month before the date on which the possession proceeding be commence , as a result of a superior tenancy which be a fix term tenancy of a term certain of more than 21 year come to an end — ( a ) on the expiry of the fix term , ( b ) within the period of 12 month end with the date on which the fix term would have expire if the tenancy have not come to an end , or ( c ) after the expiry of the fix term , as a result of a valid notice to terminate the tenancy . " this amendment allow a person who have become the landlord under an assure tenancy as a result of an intermediate fix term lease of more than 21 year come to an end to obtain possession of the dwelling within an initial six month period . amendment 226 , page 118 , line 4 , leave out " dwelling - house be an HMO and " and insert " follow condition be meet " . this amendment remove the requirement in the new ground for possession of a student house that the Bill insert into the 1988 Act for the house to be an HMO . amendment 227 , page 118 , line 4 , at end insert — " ( za ) the landlord or , in the case of joint landlord , at least one of they , give the tenant , before the beginning of the tenancy or on the day on which it begin , a write statement of the landlord ' s wish to be able to recover possession on the basis that — ( i ) at the beginning of the tenancy , as regard each tenant either — ( a ) the tenant be a full - time student , or ( B ) the landlord reasonably believe that the tenant would become a full - time student during the tenancy , and ( ii ) the landlord intend to let the dwelling - house , on the next occasion on which it be let , to people who be full - time student or who the landlord reasonably believe will become full - time student during the tenancy ; " . this amendment mean that in order for a landlord of a student house to be able to rely on the new ground 4A ( student accommodation ) to gain possession the tenant must have be give a write statement to that effect before or at the start of the tenancy . Amendment 228 , page 118 , leave out line 10 . this amendment remove the requirement in the new ground for possession of a student house that the Bill insert into the 1988 Act for the tenant be evict to be joint tenant . amendment 229 , page 118 , leave out line 11 and 12 and insert — " ( c ) the relevant date fall within the period begin with 1 June and end with 30 September in any year , and " . this amendment , together with amendment 237 , provide for the application of new Ground 4A in Schedule 2 to the 1988 Act as insert by the Bill in a case in which the court dispense with the requirement for a possession notice . it also contain a small draft clarification . amendment 165 , page 120 , line 22 , leave out " at the dwelling - house " . this amendment amend Ground 5e ( possession for use as support accommodation ) in line with other amendment to Schedule 1 which mean that a dwelling - house may be support accommodation even if the tenant receive the support service elsewhere and not at the dwelling - house . Amendment 166 , page 121 , line 10 , leave out " have " . this amendment amend paragraph ( c ) ( ii ) of the ground for possession of support accommodation ( ground 5f ) and be consequential on amendment 167 . amendment 167 , page 121 , line 11 , leave out " but have not be " and insert " before the relevant date but be not " . this amendment amend paragraph ( c ) ( ii ) of the ground for possession of support accommodation ( ground 5f ) to require that the landlord must have seek alternative funding before " the relevant date " as define in amendment 237 . amendment 168 , page 121 , line 16 , leave out " without that funding " and insert " in the circumstance " . this amendment amend paragraph ( c ) ( iii ) of the ground for possession of support accommodation ( ground 5f ) to avoid it appear only to refer back to sub - paragraph ( ii ) . amendment 169 , page 121 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( can ) the financial viability of the landlord or of support accommodation or support service the landlord provide to other would , in the landlord ' s reasonable opinion , be threaten if the landlord be to continue to provide or fund a support accommodation project of which the tenant ' s dwelling - house form part and the landlord use reasonable endeavour to identify alternative funding for the project before the relevant date but be not able to do so ; " . this amendment provide that the landlord who fund a dwelling which be support accommodation may seek possession of it on the ground that the financial viability of the landlord or of supported accommodation it provide or fund for other would be threaten be it to continue to provide or fund the support accommodation of which the dwell form part . " the relevant date " be define in amendment 237 . amendment 170 , page 121 , line 18 , leave out " at the dwelling - house " . this amendment , along with other , amend ground 5F ( possession of support accommodation ) so that a dwelling - house may be support accommodation even if the tenant receive the support service elsewhere and not at the dwelling - house . Amendment 171 , page 121 , line 20 , leave out " at the dwelling - house " . this amendment , along with other , amend ground 5F ( possession of support accommodation ) so that a dwelling - house may be support accommodation even if the tenant receive the support service elsewhere and not at the dwelling - house . amendment 172 , page 121 , line 28 , at end insert — " in paragraph ( ca ) , " support accommodation project " mean — ( a ) support accommodation consist of two or more dwelling - house in the same building as , or otherwise nearby , each other , ( b ) support accommodation consist of two or more dwelling - house occupy by tenant who receive support service of a similar kind , or ( c ) support service of a similar kind provide to tenant of two or more dwelling - house that be support accommodation . " . this amendment , together with amendment 169 , provide that a landlord may obtain possession of a dwelling which be support accommodation if the financial viability of the landlord or of supported accommodation it provide or fund for other would be threaten be it to continue to provide or fund the support accommodation of which the dwell form part . amendment 173 , page 121 , line 39 , leave out " grant of the tenancy be " and insert " the tenant ' s occupation of the dwelling - house be ( at any time during the period of occupation ) " . this amendment , together with amendment 174 , make it clear that ground 5 g ( possession after tenancy for homelessness duty ) apply also in a case where the tenancy be not grant expressly . amendment 174 , page 122 , line 2 , leave out " no long " and insert " not " . this amendment , together with amendment 173 , make it clear that ground 5 g ( possession after tenancy for homelessness duty ) apply also in a case where the tenancy be not grant expressly . amendment 230 , page 122 , line 4 , leave out " date specify in the notice under section 8 " and insert " relevant date " . this amendment , together with amendment 237 , provide for the application of new Ground 5 g in Schedule 2 to the 1988 Act as insert by the Bill in a case in which the court dispense with the requirement for a possession notice . amendment 175 , page 122 , line 11 , at end insert — " new ground for possession of step stone accommodation 18a after Ground 5 g ( insert by paragraph 18 of this Schedule ) insert — " ground 5h the landlord seek possession be a registered provider of social housing or a charity and — ( a ) the tenancy be grant because the tenant meet eligibility criterion of a description specify in regulation make by the Secretary of State , ( b ) the eligibility criterion that the tenant meet be set out in a write tenancy agreement , ( c ) the tenant no long meet the eligibility criterion or the tenancy be grant in order to provide accommodation for a limited period to help the tenant transition to live independently and that period have come to an end , ( d ) the rent be no high than the high amount that would be affordable rent , within the meaning give by regulation under paragraph 4 ( 2 ) of Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Welfare Reform and Work Act 2016 ( whether or not those regulation apply in relation to the tenancy ) , and ( e ) the tenancy be not grant — ( i ) pursuant to a nomination as mention in section 159 ( 2 ) ( c ) of the Housing Act 1996 , ( ii ) as a tenancy of support accommodation , or ( iii ) in pursuance of a local housing authority ' s duty under section 193 of the Housing Act 1996 . regulation under paragraph ( a ) be to be make by statutory instrument . a statutory instrument contain regulation under paragraph ( a ) may not be make unless a draft of the instrument have be lay before and approve by a resolution of each House of Parliament . " " this amendment add a new ground for possession for landlord of step stone accommodation . amendment 231 , page 122 , line 22 , leave out " date specify in the notice under section 8 " and insert " relevant date " . this amendment , together with amendment 234 and 237 , provide for the application of Ground 6 in Schedule 2 to the 1988 Act as amend by the Bill in a case in which the court dispense with the requirement for a possession notice . amendment 232 , page 122 , line 23 , leave out from begin to " and " in line 25 and insert " notice of a compulsory acquisition be give in respect of the dwelling - house where the acquire authority be the person who become the landlord who be seek possession " . this amendment to Ground 6 ( redevelopment ) in Schedule 2 to the 1988 Act , together with amendment 238 , extend paragraph ( aa ) ( ii ) of that ground to compulsory acquisition via route other than a compulsory purchase order and from first notice of the compulsory acquisition process . amendment 233 , page 122 , line 26 , leave out " one year " and insert " 12 month " . this be a small drafting change to make the language in the Bill more consistent . amendment 234 , page 122 , line 27 , leave out " date specify in the notice under section 8 " and insert " relevant date " . this amendment , together with amendment 231 and 237 , provide for the application of Ground 6 in Schedule 2 to the 1988 Act as amend by the Bill in a case in which the court dispense with the requirement for a possession notice . amendment 235 , page 126 , line 20 , at end insert — " ' acquire authority ' mean , where notice of a compulsory acquisition have be give , the person who would be authorise to make the compulsory acquisition if the order or legislation to which the notice relate be to become operative ; " . this amendment define the term " acquire authority " use in amendment 225 and amendment 232 . amendment 236 , page 126 , leave out line 21 to 23 . this amendment be consequential on amendment 238 . amendment 176 , page 126 , line 31 , leave out " and " . this amendment , along with other , amend the definition of " manage accommodation " and be consequential on amendment 177 . amendment 177 , page 126 , line 32 , leave out " where the " and insert " in a case in which that " . this amendment amend the definition of " manage accommodation " ( relevant to the ground for possession of support accommodation ) so that a dwelling - house may be manage accommodation even if the tenant receive the support service elsewhere and not at the dwelling - house . amendment 237 , page 126 , line 34 , at end insert — " ' relevant date ' — ( a ) in Grounds 2za , 2ZB and 5F , mean the date of service of the notice under section 8 ; ( b ) otherwise , mean the date specify in the notice under section 8 ; but where the court exercise the power confer by section 8 ( 1 ) ( b ) ( power to dispense with notice under section 8 ) be to be read as a reference to the date on which proceeding for possession begin ; " . this amendment provide for the meaning of " relevant date " in other amendment of ground for possession . amendment 178 , page 126 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( a ) which be provide by the landlord or a person act on behalf of the landlord , or ( b ) which the tenant be admit into the accommodation for the purpose of receive ; " . this amendment amend the definition of " support service " to link the service with the accommodation where the tenant live . amendment 179 , page 126 , line 37 , after " dwelling - house " insert " let " . this amendment to the definition of " support accommodation " be consequential on amendment 181 . amendment 180 , page 126 , line 38 , leave out " let " . this amendment to the definition of " support accommodation " be consequential on amendment 181 . amendment 181 , page 127 , line 3 , leave out " where a tenant " and insert " to a tenant who " . this amendment amend the definition of " support accommodation " so that a dwelling - house may be support accommodation even if the tenant receive the support service elsewhere and not at the dwelling - house . Amendment 238 , page 127 , line 10 , at end insert — " ( 2 ) for the purpose of this schedule , each of the follow constitute give notice of a compulsory acquisition — ( a ) in the case of a compulsory acquisition which be to be authorise by a compulsory purchase order — ( i ) publication of the notice require by section 11 of , or ( as the case may be ) paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to , the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 , in accordance with that Act , or ( ii ) service of the notice require by section 12 of , or ( as the case may be ) paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to , that Act , in accordance with that Act ; ( b ) in the case of a compulsory acquisition which be to be authorise by any other order , publication or service of any notice that any provision of or make under any Act require to be publish or serve in connection with that acquisition , in accordance with that Act ; ( c ) in the case of a compulsory acquisition which be to be authorise by a special enactment , publication or service of a notice that , in connection with that acquisition , be publish or serve in accordance with any Standing Order of either House of Parliament relate to private business . ( 3 ) in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) — ' compulsory purchase order ' mean a compulsory purchase order within the meaning give by the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ( see section 2 of that Act ) ; ' special enactment ' mean — ( a ) a local or private Act which authorise the compulsory acquisition of land specifically identify in that Act , or ( b ) a provision which — ( i ) be contain in an Act other than a local or private Act , and ( ii ) authorise the compulsory acquisition of land specifically identify in that Act . " this amendment set out what constitute give notice of a compulsory acquisition for the purpose of ground 1A ( sale , insert by the Bill ) and 6 ( redevelopment ) in Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1988 . amendment 182 , page 127 , line 12 , leave out " 2ZB , " and insert " 2ZC , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 161 . amendment 183 , page 127 , line 17 , leave out " 2ZB , " and insert " 2ZC , " . this amendment be consequential on amendment 161 . amendment 184 , page 127 , line 21 , at end insert — " ( ca ) amend ground 5H to change the description of landlord who may use the ground ; ( cb ) amend ground 5H to give a different meaning for " affordable rent " in consequence of regulation under paragraph 4 ( 2 ) of Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Welfare Reform and Work Act 2016 ; " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment allow the Secretary of State to change the kind of landlord to whom ground 5h ( possession of step stone accommodation ) insert by amendment 175 be available , and to fill the gap if the regulation by reference to which " affordable rent " be define be revoke or change . schedule 2 - consequential amendment relate to chapter 1 of Part 1 Amendments make : 245 , page 128 , line 2 , at end insert — " Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 A1 in section 13 ( 1A ) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 ( as amend by section 25 ) omit paragraph ( b ) and the ' or ' before it . Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 A2 in Schedule 3 to the Agricultural Holdings Act 1986 ( case where consent of tribunal to operation of notice to quit be not require ) , in Part 2 , in paragraph 3 — ( a ) in sub - paragraph ( c ) — ( i ) omit ' which be not an assure shorthold tenancy ' ; ( ii ) for ' those term ' substitute ' that term ' ; ( b ) in sub - paragraph ( d ) omit ' which be not an assure shorthold tenancy ' . " the Bill provide that assure tenancy be to be periodic tenancy and abolishe assure shorthold tenancy and these amendment be consequential on those change . amendment 258 , page 128 , line 2 , at end insert — " Housing Act 1985 za1 in section 82a of the Housing Act 1985 ( demotion because of anti - social behaviour ) , in subsection ( 8 ) , omit paragraph ( b ) . " this amendment be consequential on clause 2 of the Bill which repeal chapter 2 of Part 1 of the Housing Act 1988 . amendment 246 , page 128 , line 15 , at end insert — " 4A in section 7 ( order for possession ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for " subsection ( 5A ) and ( 6 ) " substitute " subsection ( 5A ) " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 4 ) , for " subsection ( 5A ) and ( 6 ) " substitute " subsection ( 5A ) " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 5 ) omit the word from " and Part IV " to the end . 4b in section 8 ( notice or proceeding for possession ) , in subsection ( 5 ) , for " or 8 " substitute " , 8 or 8a " . " this amendment be consequential on change make by clause 3 of , and Schedule 1 to , the Bill . amendment 247 , page 128 , line 19 , at end insert — " 6a in section 18 ( provision as to reversion on assure tenancy ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 3 ) — ( i ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) omit " which be a periodic tenancy ( include a statutory periodic tenancy ) " ; ( ii ) omit paragraph ( a ) and the " or " after it ; ( iii ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " periodic " substitute " assure " ; ( iv ) in the word after paragraph ( b ) , for " periodic " substitute " assure " ; ( b ) omit subsection ( 4 ) . " the Bill abolishe assure shorthold tenancy and this amendment be consequential on that abolition . amendment 198 , page 128 , leave out line 20 and 21 . this amendment , together with amendment NC29 , move an amendment of section 24 of the 1988 Act to a new clause with other amendment of that section . amendment 248 , page 128 , line 21 , at end insert — " 7A in section 34 ( restriction on new protect tenancy and agricultural occupancy ) omit subsection ( 3 ) . " the Bill abolishe assure shorthold tenancy and this amendment be consequential on that abolition . amendment 249 , page 128 , line 22 , at end insert — " 8a in section 41 ( rent assessment committee : procedure and information power ) , in subsection ( 2 ) , omit " or Chapter II " . 8b in section 41a ( amount attributable to service ) omit " or 22 " . " this amendment be consequential on clause 2 of the Bill which repeal chapter 2 of Part 1 of the Housing Act 1988 . amendment 250 , page 128 , line 23 , after " Part 1 ) " insert " — " ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) omit the definition of " statutory periodic tenancy " ; " . this amendment be consequential on the amendment to section 5 of the Housing Act 1988 make by paragraph 3 ( b ) of this Schedule . amendment 251 , page 128 , line 25 , after " possession ) " insert " — ( a ) in Part 3 , in paragraph 2 ( a ) , omit the word from " other than — " to the end of sub - paragraph ( ii ) ( but not the " , or " at the end of the paragraph ) ; " . this amendment be consequential on Schedule 1 to the Bill , which abolish the exist prior notice ground in Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1988 , and on clause 2 of the Bill which abolishe assure shorthold tenancy . the amendment remove the reference in paragraph 2 ( a ) of Part 3 of Schedule 2 to the 1988 Act to those ground and to assure shorthold tenancy . amendment 252 , page 128 , line 26 , at end insert — " Local Government and Housing Act 1989 11a in Schedule 11 to the Local Government and Housing Act 1989 ( minor and consequential amendment ) omit paragraph 103 and 108 . " this amendment repeal amendment in the Local Government and Housing Act 1989 of provision in the 1988 Act that be be repeal by the Bill . amendment 253 , page 128 , line 28 , at end insert — " 12a in section 64 omit the entry for " assure shorthold tenancy " . 12B omit section 96 to 100 . 12c in section 143 ( index of define expression ) omit " and assure shorthold tenancy " . " this amendment be consequential on clause 2 of the Bill which repeal chapter 2 of Part 1 of the Housing Act 1988 . amendment 239 , page 128 , line 29 , leave out " omit subsection ( 5 ) " and insert " , in subsection ( 5 ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( a ) , for " section 21 of the Housing Act 1988 ( order for possession on expiry or termination of assured shorthold tenancy ) " substitute " section 8 of the Housing Act 1988 ( notice of proceeding for possession ) " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " that notice will expire " substitute " the date specify in that notice be " " . this amendment change an amendment to section 175 of the Housing Act 1996 , class a person as threaten with homelessness if they have be give a valid notice under section 8 of the 1988 Act and the date specify in the notice be within 56 day . amendment 240 , page 129 , line 1 , leave out " omit subsection ( 6 ) " and insert " , in subsection ( 6 ) — ( a ) in the word before paragraph ( a ) , for " section 21 of the Housing Act 1988 ( order for possession on expiry or termination of assured shorthold tenancy ) " substitute " section 8 of the Housing Act 1988 ( notice of proceeding for possession ) " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( a ) — ( i ) for " will expire " substitute " specify a date that be " ; ( ii ) for " expired " substitute " pass " " . this amendment change an amendment to section 195 of the Housing Act 1996 so that a housing authority may not end its duty to a person under the circumstance in section 195 ( 8 ) ( b ) where the person have be give a valid section 8 notice specify a date within 56 day or that have pass . amendment 254 , page 129 , line 9 , at end insert — " 18a in section 230 ( minor definition : general ) , in the first definition , omit " , " assure shorthold tenancy " " . 18B omit Schedule 7 . " this amendment be consequential on clause 2 of the Bill which repeal chapter 2 of Part 1 of the Housing Act 1988 . amendment 259 , page 129 , line 9 , at end insert — " Capital Allowances Act 2001 18c in the Capital Allowances Act 2001 , in section 490 ( 3 ) ( b ) ( assure tenancy allowance ) , omit " ( but not an assure shorthold tenancy ) " . Police Reform Act 2002 18d in section 100 of the Police Reform Act 2002 ( Metropolitan Police Authority housing ) omit subsection ( 4 ) . Finance Act 2003 18e in Schedule 9 to the Finance Act 2003 ( stamp duty land tax : right to buy , share ownership lease etc ) — ( a ) in paragraph 13 , in each place it occur , for " assure shorthold tenancy " substitute " assure tenancy " ; ( b ) in paragraph 14 , in each place it occur , for " assure shorthold tenancy " substitute " assure tenancy " . Anti - social Behaviour Act 2003 18f in the Anti - social Behaviour Act 2003 — ( a ) in section 14 ( security of tenure : anti - social behaviour ) omit subsection ( 4 ) ; ( b ) omit section 15 . Housing Act 2004 18 g in the Housing Act 2004 — ( a ) omit section 75 ; ( b ) omit section 98 . Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 18h in Schedule 11 to the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 ( possession order relate to certain tenancy ) , in Part 1 — ( a ) omit paragraph 7 ; ( b ) omit paragraph 9 . Localism Act 2011 18i in the Localism Act 2011 — ( a ) in section 162 ( secure and assure tenancy : recovery of possession after tenant ' s death ) omit subsection ( 4 ) ; ( b ) omit section 163 ; ( c ) omit section 164 ; ( d ) in Schedule 14 ( ground on which landlord may refuse to surrender and grant tenancy ) , in paragraph 6 ( 4 ) , in the definition of " demotion order " , omit " or section 6a of the Housing Act 1988 " . Deregulation Act 2015 18j in the Deregulation Act 2015 — ( a ) omit section 31 ; ( b ) omit section 33 to 41 . Immigration Act 2016 18 K in section 41 of the Immigration Act 2016 ( order for possession of dwelling - house ) , in subsection ( 3 ) , omit paragraph ( c ) and ( d ) . " — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment be consequential on change make by clause 2 , 3 and 22 of the Bill . schedule 3 - Decent home standard Amendment make : 185 , in page 140 , line 37 , leave out " type 2 " and insert " type 1 " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment correct a drafting error in the amendment of section 40 ( 4 ) of the Housing Act 2004 . schedule 5 - application of chapter 1 of Part 1 to exist tenancy : transitional provision Amendments make : 241 , page 152 , line 14 , at end insert — " tenancy to which chapter 1 of Part 1 apply on conversion to a periodic tenancy a1 where the extend application date in relation to an exist tenancy be the date on which it be convert to a periodic tenancy , the amendment make by chapter 1 of Part 1 do not apply in relation to the tenancy until immediately after it be so converted . section 1 : exist tenancy continue as modify a2 the application of section 4A of the 1998 Act ( insert by section 1 ) in relation to an exist tenancy do not bring that tenancy to an end , and the term of such a tenancy be not affect by the application of section 4A of the 1988 Act except as provide by that section . " this amendment make provision like exist paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 but apply to contractual periodic tenancy as well as statutory periodic tenancy . it also make it clear that the application of clause 1 to an exist tenancy do not create a new tenancy . amendment 186 , page 152 , line 22 , leave out " 116 ( 2 ) ( b ) " and insert " ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 3 ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment NC28 . amendment 242 , page 153 , line 2 , leave out paragraph 2 . this amendment be consequential on amendment 241 . amendment 187 , page 154 , line 16 , leave out " 116 ( 2 ) ( b ) " and insert " ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 3 ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment NC28 . amendment 199 , page 154 , line 30 , at end insert — " section ( Assured agricultural occupancy : opt out etc ) : exist opt - out notice for assured agricultural occupancy 8a where an exist tenancy would be an assured agricultural occupancy but for a notice serve under paragraph 9 ( 2 ) of schedule 2A to the 1988 Act , the tenancy be to be treat for the purpose of chapter 3 of Part 1 of the 1988 Act as amend by this Act , on and after the extend application date , as a tenancy in relation to which an opt - out notice have be serve under section 24a of the 1988 Act ( insert by section ( assured agricultural occupancy : opt out etc ) of this Act ) . " this amendment ensure that where tenancy have be opt - out from the assured agricultural occupancy regime , those tenancy continue to be opt - out tenancy as provide for in amendment NC29 . amendment 243 , page 154 , line 34 , at end insert — " Schedule 1 : student accommodation ground 9a in relation to an exist tenancy , paragraph ( za ) in Ground 4A in Schedule 2 to the 1988 Act be to be read as if for " before the beginning of the tenancy or on the day on which it begin " there be substitute " before the extend application date ( within the meaning give by section ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 3 ) of the Renters ( Reform ) Act 2024 ) " . " this amendment make transitional provision for the new ground of possession for student accommodation , Ground 4A . amendment 188 , page 154 , line 34 , at end insert — " Schedule 1 : step stone accommodation grind 9B in relation to an exist tenancy , paragraph ( b ) in Ground 5h in Schedule 1 to the 1988 Act be to be read as if after " agreement " there be insert " or in a write statement give to the tenant before the extend application date ( within the meaning give by section ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 3 ) of the Renters ( Reform ) Act 2024 ) " . " this amendment make transitional provision for the new ground of possession for step stone accommodation , ground 5h . amendment 189 , page 155 , line 1 , leave out " 116 ( 4 ) " and insert " ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 3 ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment NC28 . amendment 190 , page 155 , line 2 , at end insert — " exist tenancy subject to possession notice 10a where , immediately before the extend application date , proceeding for an order for possession under section 8 of the 1988 Act in reliance on a valid notice give under that section of that Act have be commence in relation to an exist tenancy and have not be conclude , or have not be commence but have not become time - bar — ( a ) the notice remain valid until any time when such proceeding in reliance on the notice become time - bar or be conclude , and ( b ) until that time the amendment make by chapter 1 of Part 1 do not apply in relation to the tenancy . for the purpose of this paragraph , proceeding be " time - bar " after the time limit mention in section 8 ( 3 ) ( c ) of the 1988 Act . " this amendment prevent the amendment make by Part 1 of the Bill from affect an assured tenancy that be subject to a live possession notice at the time when those amendment would otherwise apply to it . amendment 191 , page 155 , line 5 , leave out " 116 ( 1 ) " and insert " ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 1 ) ( a ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment NC28 . amendment 192 , page 155 , line 7 , leave out " 116 ( 5 ) " and insert " ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 4 ) " . this amendment be consequential on amendment NC28 . amendment 244 , page 155 , leave out line 8 . this amendment be consequential on amendment 242 . amendment 194 , page 155 , line 10 , leave out " 116 ( 4 ) " and insert " ( application of chapter 1 of Part 1 ) ( 3 ) " . — ( Jacob Young . ) this amendment be consequential on amendment NC28 . third read King ' s consent signify . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . this Bill be an opportunity for we to improve the life chance of million of private renter across the country , and I hope that we have also give reassurance to the million of good landlord who endeavour to provide home for those who rely on the private rent sector . when the Government set out their levelling - up mission in 2022 — as the Levelling up Minister , I feel this keenly — we make a clear commitment to halve the number of poor - quality home by 2030 to " restore a sense of community , local pride and belong especially in those place where it have be lose . " when housing be secure and safe , it be the launch pad for rich and fulfil life and give people " a place they ' re truly proud to call home " . this Bill mark the big change to the sector in more than 30 year . rightly , member have press the Government to ensure that it strike the right balance , improve the sector for all while ensure that no party be unduly burden either by cost or by process . I believe that the Bill now strike that balance , and I be proud to have take it through the House as my first Bill as a Minister . I should add that take it over 24 hour before the beginning of the Committee stage be an add excitement that I shall not forget . let I again pay tribute to my predecessor , my hon . friend the Members for Walsall North ( Eddie Hughes ) and for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) . at this point , I invite the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) to intervene , if she wish to do so . I be grateful to the Minister . as he know , I try to intervene early during his sum - up speech . I merely want to pursue the point about rent tribunal that I make in my initial intervention . in the White Paper , the Government say that they be go to prevent tribunal from increase rent beyond the amount that landlord initially ask for when they propose a rent increase . why have the Government go back on that ? why do they now envisage a scenario in which someone could go to a tribunal and end up with a high rent than the one against which they be appeal ? that be surely a massive disincentive . large rent increase should not be use as a back - door method of eviction , but it be crucial that landlord be able to increase rent in line with market level to maintain investor confidence . we have listen to concern , and we think it fair that the tribunal be not limit when determine that market rent . this mean that , as the hon . Lady say , the tribunal have the freedom to make full and fair decision , and can continue to determine the market rent of a property . I understand the hon . Lady ' s concern , but it be important that all our measure be proportionate and that we do not allow the tribunal to become overburden by too many complaint . I therefore think that this be a necessary safeguard . the Minister be be very generous in give way . I be not the only person to have say that it should not be possible for rent to rise in these circumstance ; the Government ' s own White Paper say it only a short time ago . I wish that the Minister would address the point about the disincentive . if a tenant know that by go to a tribunal they could end up with a high rent than the one against which they be appeal , surely that will be a massive disincentive . obviously , in a number of area we have listen to the sector and move on from the White Paper . the hon . Lady ' s point be legitimate , but the reason the tribunal be able to set a rent that be above the landlord ' s initial request , and to set a market rent , be that we want to ensure that it be not overburden with repeat request that challenge rent increase that be perfectly reasonable . surely the whole point of a tribunal be for the tribunal judge to set what he think be a fair market price . it might go up , it might go down or it might stay the same , but that be the whole point of a tribunal . I entirely agree with my hon . friend , and that be why we have act in this way . we have hear from member in all part of the House , and I thank they all for their contribution during the Bill ' s passage . they have work collaboratively and diligently to ensure that this important legislation become law . I want to record my thank to all my official — I can not name they all , but a few of they be Leah , Guy , Steph and Ross — as well as those in my private office team and the Clerks . I thank member on both side of the House , notably my hon . friend the Members for Northampton South ( Andrew Lewer ) and for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) , for all their work , and of course I thank those in the Government Whips Office . above all , I thank all the group that I have have the pleasure of meeting as they represent the interest of both tenant and landlord across the wide sector . I hope that our colleague in the other place will take the collaborative approach that have be take in this House , and will pass the Bill with the speed that it now deserve to give certainty and security to landlord and tenant throughout the country . let I start by thank the Clerks , the House staff and the Library specialist for facilitate our debate on the Bill , along with all the expert and external organisation that have engage extensively with we on it . I also put on record my thank to all hon . member who have contribute to our proceeding at all stage , particularly those who serve on the Public Bill Committee . I especially thank my hon . friend the Members for Weaver Vale ( Mike Amesbury ) , for Westminster North ( Ms Buck ) , for North Tyneside ( Mary Glindon ) , for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) and for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) for their forensic scrutiny of the Bill ' s provision , and the considerable effort that they have make to strengthen it as a whole . I offer my sincere thank to the Minister for the manner in which he have approach our exchange on this important piece of legislation . in be hand this as his first Bill to take through the House , he have be give an unenviable task , to put it mildly , but he have bear his trouble with good grace . I have very much appreciate the civil way in which he have engage with I throughout and his effort , within the severe constraint under which he be no doubt operate , to make a number of small but sensible improvement to the Bill . once again , I put on the record the thank of Labour Members to all those who have campaign tirelessly — in many case , over decade — for a reform private rent sector . I particularly thank all the organisation that have join Labour over recent month in urge the Government to amend the Bill so that it level decisively the play field between landlord and tenant , especially the 20 that make up the Renters Reform Coalition . labour have consistently argue that the case for fundamentally reform the private rented sector be as watertight as they come . a state of affair in which more than 11 million people in England — not just the young and mobile , but many old people and family with child — live day in , day out with the knowledge that they could be uproot from their home with little notice and minimal justification , and where a significant minority of they be force to live in substandard property for fear that a complaint would lead to an instant retaliatory eviction , be intolerable . the sector should have be transform a long time ago . the Bill as introduce be a good starting point for the reform that be necessary , but Ministers could and should have strengthen this legislation , rather than progressively water it down in a forlorn attempt to appease a minority of malcontent on the Government Benches . as a result of the Government ' s unwillingness to face down that minority , the Bill that we send to the other place today be not only far weak than it need be , but in danger of be fatally compromise . we will not oppose the passage of the Bill tonight , because it be essential that it progress , but we hope that the noble Lords address that danger and that over the come month we can convince the Government to think again and ensure that this long - overdue piece of legislation truly deliver for renter . it be a great tribute to my hon . friend the Minister that he have get the Bill into a form that be far well than it be on Second Reading , and that it be so much improve that there will not be a Division on Third Reading . that do not mean that everybody on the conservative Benches be satisfied with all of the content of the Bill , although it be significantly improve . I recall the enthusiasm with which those on the Conservative Benches greet the Third reading of the Housing Act 1988 , which be be substantially amend by tonight ' s proceeding . that Act introduce a fundamental supply - side reform and be at the heart of the Thatcher revolution , which transform the private rent sector from one in which nobody want to engage . the sector be shrink , and young barrister like I be make a living by try to defend the interest of landlord who have haplessly find themselves on the wrong end of the legislation . we have move a long way since then , and one of the essential element of the 1988 Act be the shorthold , which be a privately arrange agreement between a landlord and a tenant . for a period , the tenant would be able to have exclusive possession of a property that be rent by the landlord . during that period , neither the landlord nor the tenant would be able to renege on the agreement . the rent would remain the same , and the landlord would not be able to say that they need to get repossession of the property for any reason at all . it seem to I that the shorthold principle be still miss from the Bill . there be an amendment that would have bring back something like a shorthold provision to provide privity of contract between a landlord and a tenant who wish to enter into an agreement on a property , in the same way that one can agree to rent somebody ' s car or caravan . the principle of privity of contract , which be fundamental to conservative belief , be enshrine in an amendment that be deem to be a wreck amendment . I hope that that amendment , which be sign by more than 50 colleague , will be resurrect in the other place , where the rule be different , that the principle enunciate in it will be take forward and that the Bill will be far improve in the other place . we need to ensure that we support conservative legislation that be design to increase the size of the rented sector rather than shrink it . I fear that the inevitable consequence of this — we have already see a bit of this in Scotland — will be that , because the Bill will reduce the supply of private rent accommodation , the cost of that accommodation will go up fast than the rate of inflation . the sort of people who have be campaign in the alliance to which the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) be refer , will then say , " stop there ! we must have rent control and price control over rent " , because one set of regulation create another set of regulation . then we will be back to where we be in 1977 . that consequence be likely to flow from what we be approve tonight , and I just hope that it will be amend in their lordship ' House so that the supply - side reform , which be so fundamental to the 1988 legislation , can be carry forward and we can give fresh confidence to people who be think about enter the private rent market , and fresh confidence to those already in it so that they do not withdraw from it as they be do at the moment in increase number . it do not help constituent who be try to get rent accommodation if that accommodation continue to escalate in price . I hope that , if there be to be a response to this short debate , we will be able to have a guarantee that under no Conservative Government will we ever have any system of rent control . I hope that the Government will be able to assure we that , as a consequence of this legislation , we will be able to increase the size of the private rent sector rather than diminish it far . I want to conclude by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) on have wage his campaign , although it be not a one - man campaign because a large cohort of people behind the scene support of his amendment . as a result of those amendment , the Bill have be improve significantly . one of his amendment be not select , and that be still , in my view , unfinished business , but we should not shirk from congratulate he on have carry this campaign forward so effectively and successfully . when the Bill come back from the other place — maybe in another year and a half since it be first present — we might be on the other side of a general election . some of we might think it would be well if we do not have the Bill on the statute book by the time of the general election , but that be another story . I will not go into that now . whenever the Bill come back , I hope that it will be in an improved form and that even more of my hon . friend ' s amendment , which be well support on the Government Benches , will be include in the text of the legislation . with the leave of the House , I would just like to confirm to my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) that we do not intend to introduce any sort of rent control . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Prevention and Suppression of Terrorism we now come to motion 3 . the Order Paper note that the draft order have not yet be consider by the Joint Committee on Statutory Instruments . I have now be inform that the Committee have consider these instrument and have not draw they to the attention of the House . I beg to move , that the draft Terrorism Act 2000 ( Proscribed Organisations ) ( Amendment ) ( no . 2 ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 April , be approve . I be grateful to the House for its consideration of this draft order , which will see the Terrorgram collective proscribe . the Government assess that the Terrorgram collective operate as an organisation , in accordance with the guidance on the meaning of that term find in section 121 of the Terrorism Act 2000 . the Terrorgram collective be the sixth extreme right - wing group to be proscribe , along with 75 group proscribe for extreme islamist or other ideology . this be base on the level of direction provide by its leadership for the preparation of propaganda campaign and the co - ordination between the network to advance its neo - fascist , accelerationist ideology . article 2 of this order add the Terrorgram collective to the list in schedule 2 to the 2000 Act as a new entry . have carefully consider all the evidence , the Government have conclude that the Terrorgram collective should be proscribe . while I be unable to comment on specific intelligence , I can provide the House with a summary of the group ' s activity . the Terrorgram collective be a transnational online network of neo - fascist terrorist who produce and disseminate violent propaganda , with the aim of radicalise reader and encourage individual to commit act of terrorism . the message of hatred it preach be one of extreme white supremacism . it call not just for death and violence but for the collapse of western democracy itself , so that the collective might build a white - only world in its place . the Terrorgram collective have publish three long - form , magazine - style publication , as well as a 24 - minute documentary video . this propaganda be design to incite violence towards perceive representative of the establishment , ethnic minority and other minority or religious community . it not only celebrate the abhorrent cycle of violence and death that it mean to inspire ; it worship it , glorify the collective ' s genocidal peer as so - call " saint " and encourage reader to commit similar act . the Terrorgram collective specifically celebrate Anders Breivik , who kill eight people with a car bomb before shoot dead 69 people at a youth camp in Norway in 2011 , as a so - call " saint . " the Government have determine that the Terrorgram collective be an organisation concern in terrorism . for example , in February 2023 , a key contributor to the Terrorgram collective be arrest for allegedly plot attack against the Baltimore power grid . the Terrorgram collective be involve in prepare for terrorism through the dissemination of instructional material in its propaganda . it promote and encourage terrorism through its publication , which contain violent narrative and material that glorify previous extreme right - wing attacker and encourage those who consume the content to commit similar action . in October 2022 , an extreme right - wing terrorist attack a gay bar in Slovakia , result in the murder of two people . in his attack manifesto , the perpetrator credit Terrorgram ' s publication . since the attack , Terrorgram now glorify he as an example to follow . the decision to proscribe Terrorgram demonstrate this Government ' s commitment to defend the security of the LGBT community . Terrorgram hold vile antisemitic view . it have publish propaganda material aim at incite violence against jewish community and the state of Israel and , most recently , celebrate Hamas ' s attack on Israel , include endorse the use of terrorism to target Israel and jewish community . reporting indicate that Terrorgram have advocate for attack on Israel ' s critical national infrastructure . this proscription far demonstrate our unwavering commitment to fight antisemitism and our unfaltere support for the jewish community . the safety and security of the public be paramount . it be , and always will be , this Government ' s no . 1 priority . the ongoing fight to counter and contain terrorism in all its guise be an essential part of that mission , as be stand up for the value we cherish . when our collective security and value be threaten by group such as the Terrorgram collective , we will not hesitate to act . I therefore urge member to support this proscription . I commend the draft order to the House . I thank the Minister for his statement and I thank civil servant at the Home Office for brief I in advance of the debate . today ' s proscription order for the Terrorgram collective , also know as just Terrorgram , be bring about by the exceptional man and woman who serve in our intelligence and security service , in government and in our police . they perform a vital public service , and I thank they for it . we on the Opposition Benches will always work with the Government on these crucial matter of national security in order to stop the malign force that seek to harm we , divide we or undermine our way of life . let I say at the outset that the opposition support the proscription of Terrorgram as a terrorist organisation . Terrorgram take the form of an online network of neo - fascist terrorist , who produce and share violent material that incite violent , extreme right - wing activity here in the UK and abroad . even after our nation ' s existential fight and victory over fascist almost 80 year ago , their threat to our security and our way of life have never completely go away . we must always defeat fascism wherever we find it . that be why it be important that the order before we will amend schedule 2 to the Terrorism Act 2000 to add Terrorgram to the list of proscribe organisation . do so will make it a criminal offence to engage with the Terrorgram group , to promote support for it or to display its logo . Terrorgram ' s name derive from it be a group on the encrypt message platform Telegram , so we very much welcome the innovative approach to proscription outline by the Minister . even though Terrorgram be without a physical presence in the UK , its online presence , which glorify terrorist act and share bomb - make material , be a threat to our national security . the Minister cite a number of example . I will refer to the attack in Slovakia in 2022 , where the threat pose by Terrorgram become a deadly and tragic reality , when a 19 - year - old assailant kill two people in an LGBT nightclub . he later take his own life but leave a manifesto that thank Terrorgram for " build the future of the white revolution one publication at a time " . we approve of the Government ' s innovative action that will lead to the rightful proscription of Terrorgram . within legal framework , there must be an approach that be relentless , agile and cunning to defeat all terrorist group . regardless of whatever warped ideology they peddle , violent extremist across the spectrum continue to use online platform to radicalise their support base and organise their activity . we must prepare to proscribe more online group , if that be necessary . these online group — online cesspit — regularly feature violent misogyny , an abhorrent trait that be a common feature in all terrorist ideology , include extreme right - wing terrorism . as the Minister will know very well , the Prevent programme currently do not recognise violent misogyny and incel ideology as extremist ideology . will the Minister provide an assurance that the appropriate framework be in place to bridge the gap between violent misogyny and recognise extremist ideology ? today ' s proscription of Terrorgram come after the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities publish the Government ' s definition of extremism in March . although long overdue , we believe this definition of extremism be welcome and will lead we towards well counter some of the cause of terrorist threat to our country . as the Minister would acknowledge , the new definition be always intend to be the beginning of a process to well counter extremism , not the process in its entirety . what progress have be make between the Home Office and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on publish a list of organisation designate as extremist ? Terrorgram ' s corrosive influence must also be view in the wide context of rise hate crime across the UK . since 2018 , police force in England and Wales have record increase in report in four out of the five hate crime strand — race , sexual orientation , disability and transgender . furthermore , since 7 October , the Community Security Trust have record a 147 % increase in antisemitic incident compare with 2022 , and tell MAMA have record a 335 % increase in anti - muslim hate case in the past four month alone . the Minister will know that the last hate crime action plan be publish eight year ago . he know more than other that proscription be an incredibly important mean to counter extremist activity , but it be not the only mean . a new hate crime action plan could be part of the arsenal to disrupt and defeat violent extremism . can the Minister say what plan the Home Office have to publish an update one ? to conclude , proscribe Terrorgram be the right thing to do for our national security . it be no long tolerable or safe for the poison of Terrorgram ' s violent ideology and terrorist material to be in reach of malign actor in our country . it have to be treat with the strong and most robust antidote : proscription . we welcome that the UK be the first country to do so . no Government can ever relent in their determination to ensure that , as a country , we be always one step ahead of those who seek to harm we , to divide we or to undermine our way of life . this House must always stand united in protect the public whom we strive to serve and protect . that be why we strongly support this proscription order . the SNP firmly support this order as well , and believe that no organisation should be free to spread extremist hate and encourage violence in the UK , so it be absolutely right that the Terrorgram collective be proscribe as a terrorist organisation . I hear the Minister mention that Terrorgram be the sixth extreme right group to be proscribe and , as I understand it , it be the first online network to be proscribe in this way , and I welcome that he have take that step . tech against Terrorism , which also welcome this proscription , have be track and report on Terrorgram ' s content for some time and have state that it send alert on this content to seven different platform , only four of which have remove it . I understand from the explanatory note that this order now give the Government the power to compel platform to take down such content . have the Minister have any communication with Tech against Terrorism , or have he instruct these platform to take down this content , because it have no place on they , especially give this proscription order from today ? I understand that the Huffington Post have name a woman in the US , Dallas Humber , as Terrorgram ' s propagandist and a narrator of some of its content . as this be , to some extent , an issue of human right abuse , be it possible that we can look at proscribe an individual under our exist Magnitsky legislation ? could the Government put restriction on this woman , who have be name as perpetuate hate online , or any other individual who be involve in set up this site ? these people should not be allow to travel around the world . if this woman be to travel to the UK , for example , she could speak to people in the real world as oppose to just online . will the Minister take that away and consider whether something of that kind be indeed possible ? can the Minister give we an up - to - date assessment of far right group , as the Government and the various intelligence agency be pick up on this and give it such a high priority , especially give the scene that we see on the street of London early this week ? extremism do not begin with organisation such as Terrorgram or with the atrocity that people inspire by Terrorgram have commit . it start at a much low level , and people , via the algorithm that these site use , get expose to more and more extremist content . have any work go into trace how some of these people get to very extreme content , and what step could have be take to remove content at a less extreme level before they get expose to something that radicalise they to the point of carry out atrocity ? there be prevention work to be do here . I have see various case where somebody come in with a concern about lockdown and be now a serious anti - vaxxer because they see more and more extreme content , and then get expose to more far - right content and more dangerous content as a result . there be a job of work to be do to deradicalise people who have be expose to such material . what be the Government do , and what thought do they have on how they might go about deradicalise those who have be expose to far - right content ? it be a very serious threat to our democracy and the safety of people , particularly minority , in the UK . I do not think that it be quite be take seriously enough . on behalf of the Democratic Unionist party , I add my support to the Minister for his proscription of Terrorgram . he clearly outline the issue that be pertinent to the announcement . I express concern over the radicalism that seem to persist throughout society . it seem to happen in way that I , perhaps from a non - technical point of view , can not really understand , but I understand that the name of the organisation — Terrorgram — tell we all about this group . its very intention be evil and wicked . its intention be to kill and to maim . the Minister ' s announcement today encourage we , as he often do when it come to these matter . the Minister ' s announcement that the UK be the first country in the world to proscribe the Terrorgram collective be positive , and proactive by he and the Government . this group spread vile propaganda , with evil — indeed , murderous — intent , and there be absolutely no place for it in modern society . the Minister rightly remind the House , and myself in particular , that the group be anti - Israel and anti - jewish . Terrorgram ' s hatred of Israel and the jewish people be to be condemn unreservedly . I commend the Minister on the Government ' s response and their support of Israel within the law , which they have give the whole way through . on this issue , the response be critical . I be a friend of Israel when I be in the Northern Ireland Assembly some 14 year ago — I be there for 12 year — and I have be a friend of Israel here . I be therefore encourage by the Minister ' s comment in relation to the support that he have give the israeli people and the jewish people in the face of downright hatred . the Terrorgram collective must be proscribe , and it must be make criminally impossible for they to operate in any fashion , so today ' s announcement be good news . do the Minister agree that social medium play a massive role in the distribution of horrific comment and opinion ? while it may not entirely be the issue today , do he agree that much more need to be do legislatively for platform such as Telegram , and indeed other that be use by people to spew hatred , whether that be TikTok , Twitter or any other ? I unashamedly say that I do not have the ability to do technical thing , but I be pleased that other do . technical change can happen at breakneck speed . do the Minister intend to ensure that when anything come on the radar of our government , Parliament will respond immediately to proscribe it ? perhaps he can give we some idea of the timescale when something come to the attention of the House , the security force or other . will he respond in an urgent manner ? again , I thank the Minister and our Government for the proactive way that they respond . it encourage I as a citizen , and on behalf of the people of Strangford , the people of Northern Ireland , and indeed all the people of this great nation that we love . I welcome all the comment make , particularly by my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) . he have be a friend for many year and we have work together on many different operation in many different part of the world — although very few be quite as vile as this one , I be afraid ; Terrorgram be a genuinely horrific organisation . he raise some interesting point about the protection of the jewish community , and he be absolutely right . the Community Safety Trust , which he and I both support , will receive an additional £ 54 million in funding to continue to provide measure until 2028 . as he know , that commitment be make only a few week ago by the Prime Minister . my hon . friend also quite rightly raise the incident of anti - muslim hatred that tell MAMA have record . he be completely correct that we have sadly see an increase in that area as well as in antisemitism , and he will know that we have also be very clear that those organisation , mosque and school that require extra support and protection can get it from the Home Office — indeed , many have be apply , and I have have the privilege of ensure that they be able to get the funding they need for their own security , to prevent harm to anybody in the muslim community as well . I want to touch briefly on some of the area raise by the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) , who make some interesting point about an individual . if she will forgive I , I will not speak about that individual in particular , but I will say that proscription work against organisation and be not an individual power . however , she be also aware that sanction do work against individual and , where we be aware that individual be connect to such hateful organisation — certainly if they be connect to proscribe organisation , as I be confident Terrorgram will be very shortly after this debate — there be no way that somebody like that would be , in the legal term , conducive to the public good , and there be no way that they should be allow access to the United Kingdom . the hon . Lady also raise an interesting point about St George ' s day . I must say that I have be to many St George ' s day lunch , at the very generous invitation of individual who , when I be still in uniform , use to be very kind . I can see my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley Central remember they too . we use to get invite to lunch in various part of the country — my late be in West Malling — and I may say that while we sit down for lunch at midday , I do not remember when we stand up from lunch . that be a great day of celebration and a fantastic moment for all of we . what we see yesterday be no celebration of St George ' s day or english national patriotism ; it be simply thuggish violence and it have no place on our street . on tech , the hon . Lady be absolutely right that , sadly , it be very easy to go down a rabbit hole or a tech black hole that lead to an amazing warren of hate - fill conspiracy theory . this be an area where tech company themselves have a responsibility to play their part . I have engage with they in many different area , include child sexual abuse online , which she know I have devote a lot of time to combat . however , this be another area where she be quite right that there be more work to be do and more responsibility on those who be profit from the attention of individual across the world . the last point I want to make be on the definition of extremism . my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley Central know very well that this be an important piece of work . there be more work to be do on the actual list , as he rightly say , but I will bring it forward as soon as we ready to do so . he will understand that we want to make sure it be as robust and complete as it possibly can be , but he will be among the first to know as soon as it be ready . I have see some truly harrowing material in this job , but the scene from the attack on the gay bar in Slovakia , where innocent people be gun down in cold blood , rank among the absolute bad . the manifesto write by the perpetrator advocate the murder of gay people , jewish people and black people — not for anything they have do , but for who they be . make no mistake : this be not just an attack on the LGBT community , and the Terrorgram collective be not just a threat to our national security . this be an attack on the value and principle that define who we be , and who we be as a nation . the Terrorgram collective be a threat to our society . there be no place whatsoever for the vile ideology espouse by the Terrorgram collective . we will not tolerate it . proscribe it be a proportionate and necessary step in our ongoing effort to tackle terrorism , protect the public and defend our value . we will never relent in show terrorism for what it be : a poisonous , corrosive force — Order . before the Minister sit down , I have to put the question on the defer division motion . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 41a ( 3 ) ) , that , at this day ' s sit , Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motion in the name of Secretary James Cleverly relate to Prevention and Suppression of Terrorism . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . Debate resume . Main Question again propose . Minister , you can finish now . and with that , Mr Deputy Speaker , I commend the order to the House . I be rather hopeful that you would just get in under the wire , but thank you none the less . question put and agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Criminal Law that the draft Criminal Justice Act 1988 ( Offensive Weapons ) ( amendment , Surrender and Compensation ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 25 January , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Medicines that the draft Veterinary Medicines ( Amendment etc . ) regulation 2024 , which be lay before this House on 4 March , be approve . — ( Aaron Bell . ) question agree to . Petitions Petition - Water booster proposal in Buckland I rise to present a petition , on behalf of my constituent , about water booster proposal in Buckland . Thames Water currently plan to site a new booster station right next to traditional rural cottage , create an eyesore and potential safety risk on the small country road that provide access . hundred of resident be strongly opposed to this proposal and the parish council have propose an alternative site . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that Thames Water locate this new water booster station well away from residential property . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Aylesbury , declare that Thames Water should be require to make residential amenity the top priority when consider the location of a new large water booster station in Buckland which will have a severe negative impact on the life of those live in neighbouring property . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that Thames Water locate this new water booster station well away from residential property . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ P002961 ] Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent regard the recommendation of the infected blood inquiry . the life of those infect and their family have be change forever by that tragedy . I commend all campaigner for their tireless fight for justice and accountability , include my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . with two victim of the scandal die every week , the Government must get on and deliver this long overdue justice . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of South Shields , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002963 ] access to banking : Devon Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Aaron Bell . ) I be delighted to have secure this important Adjournment debate on access to banking service and banking hub in Devon . I welcome the Minister and colleague to the debate . take a quick stroll down your near high street , Mr Deputy Speaker , and you will notice that there be few bank branch than there be in year go by — far few . in 1992 there be 19 , 000 bank and build society branch in the UK . in 2022 the number of bank and building society branch have fall from 19 , 000 to 8 , 000 . that decline have not happen more quickly on any particular Government ' s watch : the fall have be consistent and steady over the past 30 year . however , we have reach a tipping point ; bank branch be get scarce . we notice when bank branch be go altogether from our high street . People can not deposit cash or pay in cheque ; business and charity can not pop to the branch to refill their till or bank their taking at the end of the day ; and we no long have friendly face to talk to for financial advice . when bank branch be go , people have to travel mile to apply for a loan or to arrange third - party access to start bereavement proceeding , for example . People tell I that when those branch be go , manage their money become more difficult , if not impossible . People in my constituency travel to city and town such as Exeter or Honiton for their near branch . every time a bank decide to shut its high street branch , my postbag fill up . I share those people ' s frustration — I get it . I commend the hon . member for secure the debate on this massive issue . do he agree that bank ' abdication of their responsibility to rural community , which often have the bad transport , infrastructure and broadband connection , can not be pave over with a user ' guide to online banking ? at the very least , a hub that be accessible throughout the day and in the evening must be the minimum standard of service that any national bank must be require to provide for its customer . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . I personally would benefit from a " how to bank online " guide , because it can be quite confusing , even for someone who be relatively technical . I thank he for his point . it be not enough to say that bank branch closure be commercial decision . yes , the Government can not intervene , and nor can I as an MP stop bank branch from close , as much as I try . but we have reach a tipping point where enough be enough . bank must provide core service to loyal customer on our high street and stop wash their hand of their customer ' need . the bank claim that their branch on our high street be increasingly outdated : they say that more customer be move online and go cashless . that be broadly true , but it be not an excuse simply to pull up stick and disappear . in fact , I believe that bank branch closure across the UK be force people to change their habit , but people still need access to cash and face - to - face banking service — the demand be definitely still there . to give a couple of statistic , 27 % of over - 65 and 58 % of over - 85 rely on face - to - face banking . some among the old generation be not technophobe . in fact , they may have valid reason for not want to do online banking . accord to research by Age UK , fear of be defraud and a lack of IT skill be common reason why many people prefer face - to - face banking . if the need for face - to - face banking be still there , what be the solution ? that bring I to the second part of my speech . my constituency have a banking hub in Belper , which have become a lifeline for business on the high street , particularly small business , because they can access cash and pay cash in . I encourage my hon . friend to keep campaign for a banking hub , because they help every section of society : old people , young people and business . that banking hub have rejuvenate the high street in Belper . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . it be almost as if she know what I be about to say , because I be about to move on to the topic of banking hub , which be a relatively new concept . I think of they as share banking space : they look a bit like a traditional bank branch , but unlike a traditional branch , those hub be available to everyone . they offer counter service : customer from any bank can withdraw and deposit cash , collect change , deposit cheque , pay bill and make balance inquiry . they also offer private space for specific bank , where customer can speak to someone from their own bank or building society about more complex issue such as mortgage , loan and pension . that be not really something that people want to do online . banking hub be an industry - lead solution to the demise of physical branch , but the Government have be clear that the delivery of hub must speed up . they have do important work to legislate to protect access to cash , not least through the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 . I look forward to hear the Minister ' s remark in this debate and hope to hear about the progress be make in roll out more banking hub across the country . I know that he have have discussion with UK high street bank , and have also hold roundtable with industry and mps about banking hub . as East Devon ' s MP , I have be hold meeting locally to see how we can set up banking hub in the constituency . last year I launch a local campaign . Lloyds in Sidmouth , the last bank in town , be go to shut its door . that be where I live , and local resident and I want to send a clear message to the bank that they should staff a banking hub in Sidmouth . hundred of people get in touch through my survey and the result be quite startling : 81 % of resident who respond say they have visit a bank branch in the past six month , and 96 % say they want staff from their own bank in the hub . on the question in my survey : " what be the most common way that you access banking service " , 46 % say : " in branch or in person " , while 52 % say " Online " and only 2 % say " Telephone " . my survey show a clear demand for face - to - face banking , and the need for a banking hub in Sidmouth . here be what some local resident tell I when Lloyds announce it be close its branch in Sidmouth . Mary say : " we wonder why it be Sidmouth , with all the holiday crowd , folk festival , regatta and jazz festival that the last bank be set to close . there seem to be no logic . do these decision maker have a rusty old pin they use to decide which bank stay and which go ? " Susan tell I : " I be very upset to discover Lloyds bank be close . I wonder what customer be suppose to do when they need paperwork either for power of attorney or closure of account after a death ? " Pauline tell I : " I very nearly get scamme . I be not technology minded and do not bank online . I receive a very convincing text message which result in my go to my bank to make a payment . if it wasn ' t for the lady I speak to in the bank I would have have my account wipe clean . she be very much on the ball , so I be save . this show the importance of have a bank in Sidmouth . " local resident such as Mary , Susan and Pauline be delighted when Sidmouth ' s banking hub open its door last month . it have be very popular , but be it perfect ? no — although I would like to pay tribute to the staff , who be fantastic — because it be not yet quite what the town need , because it need a cashpoint . it need to have a 24 / 7 ATM available outside , with a printer so that resident can get mini - statement , as well as a trial of Saturday opening hour if at all possible . however , I want to thank the team at Cash Access UK and the building contractor for get the hub up and run so successfully before Lloyds close its door . I be also pleased to visit Axminster ' s banking hub when it open . I hear feedback from local resident and business about how important it be for that town . More banking hub such as the one in Sidmouth and Axminster be need in Devon , and I want to put that firmly on the record in today ' s debate . I be currently work with local community to try to get banking hub in town such as Exmouth , Budleigh Salterton and Ottery St Mary . Exmouth , the large town in Devon , will need a banking hub soon rather than later , and I have already make the case for one . Halifax ' s branch in the town will close this summer , which will leave just three bank remain in Exmouth . the case for a banking hub in Budleigh Salterton be also strong . it have be without a high street bank due to closure in recent year . the last bank in town , Lloyds , close in January 2019 . the town ' s population be significantly old than the national average . local resident and business have only the post office and the Co - op to access over - the - counter banking service . I have see the queue , and it be not great , although it be a small shop and the staff work incredibly hard . that be why I have make a formal request for a banking hub , alongside a local councillor , Henry Riddell . I know the Government want the delivery of banking hub to be speed up , and I hope that Exmouth , Budleigh Salterton and Ottery St Mary will be in line for banking hub too . I would cite these example as to where a problem lie . I believe the criterion for whether an area should get a banking hub must be relax , because the bar be far too high at the moment . generally , in order to get a banking hub a town need 7 , 000 people within 1 km of the centre and at least 70 retailer . it also need there to be no bank at all — in other word , the last bank in town must be close or already have close . too often it take the last bank in town to shut before the industry get its act together and open a banking hub . on this point , Exmouth will not get a banking hub under the current criterion until 2028 . Nationwide tell I when I visit last week that it will keep its Rolle Street branch open until at least 2028 . I of course welcome that commitment by Nationwide , which be play fair by the high street , but that commitment in effect mean that a banking hub will not open in Exmouth while the branch remain , which make no sense to I . we have to consider the size of Exmouth , and we also have to consider the number of bank the town use to have . we do need to look again at the criterion and to lower the bar . I recently co - sign a letter from my hon . friend the Member for Hertford and Stortford ( Julie Marson ) to the Financial Conduct Authority to unlock more banking hub . the FCA will decide on new rule in the third quarter of this year , and I will be watch that like a hawk . this could be an important turning point , so that even more banking hub can open . as I have say , more banking hub such as those in Sidmouth and Axminster be badly need in my part of Devon . People should be able to access banking service on our high street . I be delighted to have secure today ' s debate and look forward to hear the Minister ' s remark . it be an absolute pleasure to respond to this debate , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for East Devon ( Simon Jupp ) for secure it . we know that our colleague in this place all work hard for their constituent , but some go the extra mile . I would say that on this subject , like so many other , my hon . friend be an exemplar of what can be see in british politic and in this Parliament . his work on secure access to banking service in his constituency be second to none . I appreciate the strength of feeling across the Chamber on this topic . I share the concern of many member in light of the more than 600 closure announcement we have see in the past year . bank and building society be essential in people be able to manage their money on a day - to - day basis , and they hold a privileged and important place in our society . as such , firm must ensure that all customer , wherever they live , have appropriate access to banking and cash service . we need to be grow up about this issue . we all recognise , as my hon . Friend make clear in his remark , that the world of banking have change greatly in recent year . reflect that shift , customer have increasingly move towards online and mobile access . that shift be apparent across many area of the economy and society , not just in banking . recent Financial Conduct Authority datum show that only 21 % of british adult still regularly use a bank branch . in contrast , almost nine in 10 adult bank online or use a mobile app . it be right that firm continue to innovate in response to change customer habit and ensure that customer across the UK benefit from the late development in technology , but those change in technology — this be a fundamental point , and I believe my hon . friend will share my view — do not mean that access to in - person banking and cash service be no long require . they remain vitally important to many people up and down the country in our constituency . in time of need , or when more personalised support and service be require , such as in the example that my hon . friend mention , speak to a real person face to face can be essential . more broadly , the wide societal benefit to our constituency , our high street and our market town of bank branch be critically important . in the light of those thing , the Government have take decisive action over recent year to ensure that access to cash be protect through the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 . it place a responsibility on the FCA to seek to ensure reasonable provision of cash withdrawal and deposit facility , include free service for personal current account . follow the passage of that Act , the Government publish a policy statement set out our policy on access to cash . the FCA must have regard to that policy statement as part of its regulatory approach . the statement set out that people and business should be no further than 3 mile from a free cash access point . as my hon . Friend mention , the FCA have recently hold a consultation on its propose regulatory regime in this area . under the proposal , bank and building society that be designate by the Government will be require to assess and fill gap or potential gap in cash access provision that significantly impact consumer and business . as well as access to cash , the FCA have guidance on bank branch closure . while decision on individual closure be rightly a commercial issue for firm — we do not want Government Ministers decide where bank branch go , tempt and fascinate as I would be by that process — we expect firm to adhere to the FCA guidance . that guidance be clear that bank and building society must ensure that they carefully consider the impact of plan closure on their customer . where firm fall short of those expectation , the FCA have the power to ask for closure to be pause or for other option to be put in place , and it will do so . it be important to make the point that the industry have make great stride to provide a range of initiative through alternative such as agreement with the post office or community outreach programme in location such as community centre , library and village hall . shared banking hub be , as we have hear , another exciting and popular innovation . banking hub be a clear example of pioneer , industry - lead innovation to protect access in a change landscape . as my hon . friend the Member for Mid Derbyshire ( Mrs Latham ) make clear , banking hub can be a lifeline to community . I be pleased that the Sidmouth hub have be open , where my hon . friend the Member for East Devon have the privilege of cut the ribbon — or whatever they have he cut — but it be important that the House , and indeed everybody , know that banking hub can be a modern 21st century way to ensure access to cash and banking service . the Government strongly support this innovation . these hub help people and business withdraw and deposit cash , pay in cheque , and check their balance over the post office counter , and also provide a community banker who can help people with wide banking service , from make a transfer to provide support for fraud and scam victim . my hon . friend mention victim in his constituency who he have be work with . Hubs be deploy by Cash Access UK in response to a Link assessment of the community ' s cash need . to ensure there be no gap in the provision of service , the industry have commit that if a hub be recommend , the branch it replace will not be close for up to 12 month until that hub be open , and if there be a delay beyond that , a temporary hub will be put in place . to date , over 120 hub have be announce across the country and 47 be open . this be a welcome programme , and it be a priority to I that the industry continue to deliver on this but speed it up . UK Finance , the trade body represent the industry , have recently commit to a total of 225 hub to be open in the next 18 month . like my hon . friend and many in the House , I will be watch and hold it to account , and make sure that those hub open as quickly as possible . as the Minister know , I represent Derbyshire Dales , where we recently have the closure of the last bank , the National Westminster bank , in Bakewell . that be the last bank in the Peak district . my concern be that the criterion for hub exclude we , because Bakewell be too small : it have only 3 , 000 to 4 , 000 people and under the present criterion there have to be 7 , 000 . what might work in Belper or another part of a district or county like Derbyshire , or indeed Devon , might not work elsewhere , mean that people will be leave behind . will the Government look with the FCA at whether the criterion should be change to take into account area that surround a small town , where that small town might still be vibrant but not big enough on its own to qualify for a hub ? what be the future in this area ? I thank my hon . friend for her point and I should not have leave she out when talk about the committed Members of Parliament who work on this area . I pay tribute to she for the number of time she have question I , badger I and advocate for her community and constituent on this subject , and today be another good example . if she wait a few minute , I will address her specific point directly . it be important that hub provide a good service to customer and the industry evolve its offer as it learn from the roll - out of the 47 hub that be already open . follow recent discussion I have hold with the UK high street bank and my roundtable with industry representative and mp last month , I be pleased that the industry have agree to improve the service in hub to ensure they be a genuine alternative to bank branch . my hon . friend the Member for East Devon refer to some improvement he would like to see in his constituency . participate high street bank have commit to a range of improvement to the banking service provide in hub , such as : first , have an agree consistent and improved level of service provide by all firm ; secondly , ensure that personal customer do not need to bring their own device to access service ; and , thirdly , trialle various new service such as a customer liaison service and Saturday opening . those improvement will make a big difference to participation and , indeed , to how welcome banking hub be . I be grateful for the constructive and positive approach that I have see from industry in its engagement with his Majesty ' s Treasury , recognise the need of its customer . I have write to all mp and to the Chair of the Treasury Committee on the package . I turn to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( Miss Dines ) . firm have provide I with reassurance that they will continue to revisit the criterion for location to be eligible for a hub to ensure that they reflect customer need , and that they will do so in particular follow the publication of the FCA ' s response to its recent access to cash consultation . that be important , because rural area and small place such as Bakewell sometimes lose out . I know that the industry will be watch the debate and will take what I be say seriously . let we revisit the criterion in a sensible way to ensure that they take account of area that need banking hub service but be not currently accommodate . that be very important , and I will work with the industry to see what it can do to deliver on what I have just say from the Dispatch Box . I believe that the measure set out in the package mark a significant step forward from industry in ensure that customer need be be meet , but I reassure the House that I will continue to monitor the roll - out of banking hub closely . I be grateful that we have have another chance to discuss this important topic . while branch closure be a commercial decision — and it be right that they be — I strongly believe that all customer , wherever they live and whatever their age , should have access that be appropriate for they to banking and cash service . I be grateful for the engagement I have have from the sector and the FCA on this important issue . I thank again my hon . friend the Member for East Devon for bring the debate to the Chamber , and I thank my hon . friend the Members for Mid Derbyshire and for Derbyshire Dales — derbyshire be the theme there — for their contribution . question put and agree to . House adjourn . Deferred Division Regulatory Reform that the draft Economic Growth ( Regulatory Functions ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 6 March , be approve . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Bim Afolami Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Jon Ashworth Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Paula Barker John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Hilary Benn Jake Berry Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Ben Bradshaw Graham Brady Suella Braverman Kevin Brennan Jack Brereton Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Lyn Brown Nick Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Karen Buck Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Rob Butler Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam cat Sarah Champion Bambos charalambous Jo Churchill Feryal Clark Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Damian Collins Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas Judith Cummins Janet Daby Ashley Dalton James Daly Wayne David Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Dehenna Davison Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Anneliese Dodds Michelle Donelan Steve Double Stephen Doughty Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Ruth Edwards Tobias Ellwood Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Florence Eshalomi George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Simon Fell Anna Firth Colleen Fletcher Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Yvonne Fovargue Liam Fox Vicky Foxcroft Mark Francois Lucy Frazer Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Paul Girvan John Glen Michael Gove Helen Grant Chris Grayling Chris Green Margaret Greenwood Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith James Grundy Robert Halfon Luke Hall Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Emma Hardy Mark Harper Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Helen Hayes John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Mark Hendrick Antony Higginbotham Meg Hillier Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kate Hollern Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins George Howarth John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt rupa Huq Alister Jack Dan Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Gareth Johnson Kim Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Darren Jones Fay Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Gen Kitchen Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Peter Kyle John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Mark Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Cherilyn Mackrory Justin Madders Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Rachael Maskell Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Karl McCartney Andy McDonald Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Anna McMorrin Huw Merriman Ed Miliband Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Stephen Morgan Anne Marie Morris Grahame Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Ian Murray James Murray Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Charlotte Nichols Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Alex Norris Neil o ' Brien Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Bridget Phillipson Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Lucy Powell Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Yasmin Qureshi Dominic Raab Angela Rayner John Redwood Steve Reed Christina Rees Jacob Rees - Mogg Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Naseem Shah Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Chloe Smith Greg Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Amanda Solloway John Spellar Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens Jane Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Wes Streeting Mel Stride Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Zarah Sultana James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Mark Tami Sam Tarry Derek Thomas Emily Thornberry Maggie Throup Stephen Timms Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Jon Trickett Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Christian Wakeford Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Catherine West Matt Western Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Alan Whitehead Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Jacob Young Daniel Zeichner Hannah Bardell Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Deidre Brock Amy Callaghan Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Martin Docherty Allan Dorans Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Richard Foord George Galloway Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Ben Lake David Linden Caroline Lucas John McNally Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Sarah Olney Liz Saville - Roberts Chris Stephens Jamie Stone Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Munira Wilson the House divide : Ayes 395 , Noes 50 . question accordingly agree to .