Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — support for People with Disabilities if she will make an assessment of the adequacy of Government support for people with disability . the Government deliver wide - range support for disabled people , include in work and education . we continually seek to enhance support — for example , via improvement to the health and disability benefit system , and in the accessibility of home and transport , and through delivery of the national disability strategy and the disability action plan . the United Nations have find that the Government have breach the right of sick and disabled people , include their right at work , and the UK ' s own equality watchdog have say that the Department for Work and Pensions have discriminate against sick and disabled people . give that only 2 . 7 % of participant in the Government ' s work and health programme have a successful job outcome , what meaningful proposal do the Government have to reduce the 29 % disability employment gap ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point , which take I back to our time on the Work and Pensions Committee . I genuinely feel disappointed about that report , and the Government strongly reject its finding in 2016 , but we will continue to implement the UN convention on the right of person with disability and the Committee ' s recommendation through many of our policy to improve disabled people ' s life , whether that be WorkWell , our disability employment adviser , or the work we be do on fit note reform . we be absolutely determined to support disabled people in work . indeed , in the first quarter of 2024 there be 10 . 3 million disabled people in employment , which be an increase of 400 , 000 on the year before . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . I know that my hon . friend be absolutely committed to disability employment , but can she please outline exactly what she be do , both at the DWP and in her wide role across Government , to ensure that inclusion be embed in policy and leadership so that disabled people — particularly those who be neurodiverse — be support into civil service job ? I thank my right hon . friend for her point and for her work in this area . we be deliver on the Buckland review , and all ministerial Departments be sign up to Disability Confident , progress to Disability Confident leader status and have evidence independently validate on that work . arm ' s length body be also sign up to Disability Confident , and we be work with parent Departments to encourage more of they to do the same . one in 10 senior civil servant declare themselves to be disabled , and since 2013 the proportion of civil servant with a disability have increase to 16 . 8 % . I call the shadow Minister . I be already a little confuse by the Minister ' s answer this morning . in December I raise the issue of the disability pay gap , and she reply from the Dispatch Box that the Government be close the disability employment gap . she have mention this morning that that be apparently happen , but the number tell a different story : in the period from January to March 2024 , 100 , 000 few people with disability be in employment compare with the same period 12 month early . why do she think the plan be not work ? the hon . Lady and I could trade statistic , but what I be interested in be opportunity for disabled people and people with health condition , hence the work we be do on the Buckland review , and indeed on entrepreneurship and the Lilac review — there will be far update on that to the House shortly . if the hon . Lady be ready to listen , I can reassure she that we be work on the Disability Confident scheme and be do further work on the employment goal , and I will update the House soon . Menopause : Workplace Support what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to support woman experience menopause at work . in March last year we appoint Helen Tomlinson as the Government ' s first ever menopause employment champion . she have be work up and down the country , visit business large and small and give they advice on policy to support menopausal woman in the workplace . she recently publish her 12 - month review , " shatter the silence about Menopause " . I be grateful for that reply . labour be the party of woman ' s equality . the previous Labour Government do more to advance equality than any other , and the next one will match that record . we be commit to support woman experience menopause to thrive at work by require large employer to adopt menopause action plan . will the Minister do the same ? as usual , this Government have already do all of that work . in England we have the Wellbeing of Women pledge , which the NHS , the civil service and this Parliament have sign . we will take no lecture from Labour on woman ' s health . while we have have a woman ' s health strategy for two year , labour - run Wales have no health plan for woman . I call the shadow Minister . research show that one in 10 woman with menopausal symptom have leave work due to a lack of support . in some case , this will have be due to discrimination . woman experience menopause know that this be because of their age and sex , but the law do not protect they on that combine basis . why not ? the Equality Act 2010 already protect woman on the basis of sex , age and disability . it be this Government who be change the experience of menopause by roll out woman ' s health hub in every integrate care board across England , so that woman can access menopause support . we also have our hormone replacement therapy prepayment certificate , which be available for just under £ 20 a year for woman to get all their HRT prescription . over half a million woman in England have buy one of those certificate . the Minister refer to labour ' s Equality Act , which of course include protection against dual discrimination , but the Conservatives have refuse to enact those protection . labour would put that right . we would also require large business to produce menopause action plan , which the Government have refuse to do , and we would also publish guidance for small business . we would set a new investment target for woman - lead start - up , and we would transform the right of woman at work with a new deal for work people . the Minister for Women and Equalities have suggest , of course , that menopause at work be a left - wing issue . do this Minister agree ? the shadow Minister fail to mention the help to grow portal , which have a menopause resource hub that enable employer to use that information to well support woman in the workplace , whether with flexible working — under law that this Conservative Government have introduce — or through simple measure such as recognise that even the uniform a woman wear in the workplace can make a difference . this Conservative Government have raise the bar on menopause health and support in the workplace and in healthcare , while labour for many year could not even define what a woman actually be . community Cohesion what step the Government be take to help ensure community cohesion . in this country , we believe in religious freedom . everyone should be able to express their identity , faith and belief . however , this must be do in a way that respect the right of other . community cohesion in many of our town and city have be strain in recent month , follow the 7 October attack in Israel . the boundary of acceptable behaviour in the public sphere be be test . that be why on 18 December 2023 I publish new guidance for public authority , remind they of their legal obligation under the public sector equality duty , and specifically that they should consider how they contribute to the advancement of good relation in community as they deliver public service . my right hon . friend will know that , in Romford , our national , country and county flag — the Union Jack , the cross of St George and the flag of Essex — be fly with great pride as inclusive symbol of our share identity . do she agree that all public building , school and organisation should be encourage to fly the appropriate flag as symbol of unity , patriotism and equality , rather than of division ? I do agree with my hon . friend . the Union Jack and the cross of St George be symbol of unity , not division , and of course , as an Essex MP , I be also particularly fond of our county flag . the point be that national pride should be celebrate , not shun . that be why anyone in the UK be able to fly any of our national flag without need the consent of their local authority , as per Government regulation that exempt national flag . I thank the Minister for her answer . on community cohesion between different ethnicity , what plan do she have to make funding available to enable community event whereby each member of a community can demonstrate their culture and heritage , with all age and all group , and to build relationship in a similar way to what we be do in Northern Ireland ? we encourage every celebration of the diversity in ethnicity that we have in this country . in particular , the Government want to emphasise equality under the law , the fact that there be not protect group but protect characteristic , and that everyone should be free from discrimination . we know that in many event up and down the country , include in Northern Ireland , that be what be be celebrate , and I thank the hon . gentleman for highlight that in the House . we encourage all local community to do just that . Welfare Reform : disabled People what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the Government ' s propose welfare reform on disabled people . what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the Government ' s propose welfare reform on disabled people . the Department engage regularly with the Cabinet Office on the different option for reshape the current welfare system set out in the health and disability Green Paper , include on the potential impact on claimant with different health condition . the propose reform to personal independence payment unjustly target disabled people in a cost of living crisis . the Multiple Sclerosis Society find that nearly two in three people with MS say that the application process have a negative effect on their physical and mental health . instead of purse reform that risk worsen inequality , will the Minister make representation to scrap informal observation to any PIP change , as have already be do with the adult disability payment in Scotland ? we want to understand how good to target support for disabled people and those with health condition , to provide the right kind of support for those who need it most , and to ensure value for the taxpayer . provide the right support to people who need it most , and understand long - term health condition and how people want to live independently and reach their full potential , be key to that . we must also ensure that disabled people feel understand and have a voice , which be why I strongly urge people to be part of that consultation and have their say . we want to hear from disabled people — that be what they say to I : they want to be hear and understand . in November , when I raise the concern of Parkinson ' s UK about change to the work capability assessment , the then Minister agree to meet the organisation . six month on , there have be no meeting , and the Minister have reply to my follow - up write question with standard answer about meet a number of organisation . will she step up to the plate and meet Parkinson ' s UK to hear directly its concern about the change to welfare reform for those suffering from Parkinson ' s ? I try not to give standard answer , and I will not give a standard answer to that question . I recently meet people who be diagnose with Parkinson ' s early — perhaps as young as 35 — and I be happy to meet more broadly with Parkinson ' s UK . I recently meet Mind , and as much as my diary allow , and at event in the House , I engage with advocate for disabled people and those with health condition . I be happy to pick up that meeting , because if it be not already in my diary , it should be soon . I call the SNP spokesperson . the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities recently conclude that the UK Government have " fail to take all appropriate measure to address grave and systematic violation of the human right of person with disability and have fail to eliminate the root cause of inequality and discrimination . " with those damn finding in mind , will the Minister confirm whether an equality impact on the propose welfare reform have be carry out , and if so , can we expect it to be make public ? I will write to the hon . Lady on that question . I can reassure she that I have meet she and my counterpart in the devolved space regard PIP reform and the wide consultation , to ensure that we be hear voice from everyone . as I say early , the UK be a signatory to the UN convention on the right of person with disability , and we remain committed to ensure that the UK be one of the good place to live and work as a disabled person . I come from care and a family that live with disablement . we must listen to disabled people , stop scaremongere and ensure that they be understand . that be exactly what our reform and engagement be all about . State Pension Equality whether she have have recent discussion with the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions on state pension equality . minister in the Department for Work and Pensions continue to have regular discussion about state pension inequality . we introduce the new state pension in 2016 , which improve outcome for many woman . Outcomes will equalise for man and woman by the early 2040 — more than a decade early than under the previous system . some WASPI — Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign — woman in Bedford be live in severe financial hardship , have have their pension income steal , in some case twice . their right to compensation have be test and win . give that a WASPI woman die every 13 minute , do the Minister agree that a compensation scheme need to be set up immediately ? it should not be a one - size - fit - all package , but it must be simple , clear and easy to operate . I know that this issue be very emotive . for all of we with constituent who be worried about their pension age , I remind they that pension credit provide a safety net for people on low income , so they should look at the benefit calculator on gov . uk . there will be a full debate on the ombudsman ' s report tomorrow , and the Government will take all view into account as we identify and implement the next step . the ombudsman ' s report be complex and substantial , and the investigation cover 30 year . I appreciate that all party want to see the situation resolve as quickly as possible . as the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions have say , there will be no undue delay , and we will be listen to everyone . sex - base datum : Health and Social Care what step she be take with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to help ensure that health and social care provider collect sex - base datum . NHS England plan to make further change to report on sex and gender in national dataset once the unified information standard for protect characteristic have be approve and publish . this will unify report on eight of the nine protect characteristic , include gender reassignment and sex . I know that the Secretary of State agree that vulnerable woman with learn disability and all woman should be able to access same - sex care , particularly with regard to intimate physical care . that be especially important in the light of the shocking report by the Women ' s Rights Network and Jo Phoenix on rape and sexual assault in hospital and care setting . that be why the proper collection of datum base on sex be vital . do the Minister agree ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . we be currently consult on the NHS constitution , which will give woman not just the right to same - sex accommodation in hospital , but the right to ask for someone of the same sex to conduct intimate examination . there be safeguard , and we be look at some of the incident in trust in order to well protect patient and staff . she be absolutely right to raise the issue of data collection and ensure that that be happen . business start - up what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to encourage more people from black , asian and ethnic minority community to start up a business . the Government have work to advance equality of access to start - up opportunity , irrespective of social background or race . we have a range of business support programme and government - back financial support through help to grow : management , growth hub and the British Business Bank . the success of our endeavour to engage and support diverse business leader can be see in the datum . in 2023 , 44 % of the 30 , 000 people in England help by the business support helpline be from ethnic minority background . I thank the Minister for that response , although I find it a little difficult to hear . Bristol have a thriving and entrepreneurial somali community , but one of the thing they constantly come across be almost an expectation that they will set up business that serve just their community , rather than be part of mainstream regeneration effort and the general commercial life of the city . what be the Equalities department do to try to ensure that those people can make that breakthrough from just be community - base project ? it be interesting that a number of people have that perception that they should stay in their lane . this government do not support any sort of activity that be segregationist . we believe that we must treat people equally under the law . all of our access programme be available irrespective of ethnicity . People should be encourage to serve the entire community , not just people who look and sound like they . some of the scheme that I mention in my early answer be available . the hon . Lady should know that the start up Loans Company report that in her constituency 42 start - up loan be issue to ethnic minority - lead start - up , for about £ 315 , 000 , so there be opportunity out there . I be happy to write to she with more information if she need it . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . institution should be able to operate free from ideological pressure . I be delighted that the Equality and Human Rights Commission have retain its accreditation as an a - status national human right institution , denote full compliance with the Paris principle , despite Stonewall ' s attempt to have it strip of its status at the UN . as I have say before , Stonewall do not dictate the law in this country , or indeed in the UN . the Equality and Human Rights Commission , have retain its a - status , retain its independent participation right at the UN Human Rights Council and remain able to report directly to the United Nations on human right issue . datum from the Office for National Statistics show that 25 . 3 % of woman be economically inactive , compare with 18 . 4 % of man . many woman say that access to flexible working could see they return to the pay workplace . what step be the Minister take alongside her Cabinet colleague to ensure that all worker have access to flexibility in their working hour ? there be a lot that my Department in particular be do . we have put out multiple bit of legislation that will help to entrench workplace equality , whether that be around flexible working right or sexual harassment in the workplace . we be do more even on the trade side , where we continue to ensure that we have provision that advance gender equality in our free trade agreement because we want to break down barrier and create opportunity for female entrepreneur . I call Andrew Jones . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] a popular man . I would like to raise an issue with the Minister that be raise with I at a recent constituency surgery . what be the Government do to ensure that privacy and dignity for woman be protect in toilet facility ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . there be various reason why woman and man should be able to access single - sex space , and public toilet be no exception . we be update building regulation so that toilet in non - domestic building offer safety , privacy and dignity for all people who use they . there be often confusion between gender - neutral toilet and unisex toilet . we support unisex toilet , but through these new building regulation we be try to get rid of toilet and bathroom where man and woman share the same space . during the Northern Ireland Assembly campaign , some female candidate be subject to AI - generate deepfake and grossly offensive content . what action be the Government take to regulate the dissemination of such imagery where it could affect the otherwise freely express choice of voter at the ballot box , especially as we approach a general election in the come month ? the Online Safety Act 2023 introduce new offence that criminalise sharing or threaten to share an intimate image without consent , which include deepfake intimate image . the Government be work to ensure that we be ready to respond to the full range of threat to our democratic process , include through the defend democracy taskforce . if deepfake be discover by user on social medium , they should report they directly to the platform . in the case of election , they should be report directly to the Electoral Commission , because it be already an electoral offence to make false statement of fact about the character or conduct of a candidate during an election . have endure an induced coma and six round of chemotherapy , 17 - year - old Leoni Miller launch her new business at a WayfinderWoman event last month . will my right hon . friend join I in wish Leoni every success and outline what support and advice be available so that other young woman see run their own business as a real prospect ? I wish Leoni every success . my hon . friend be right to raise this issue . in March , we proudly announce the launch of the invest in woman taskforce , whose mission be to make the UK the good place in the world to be a female founder . since the taskforce ' s launch , its member have be work with the private sector to begin raise fund for female founder just like her constituent . both Baroness Cumberlege in the " first do no harm " report and the patient safety commissioner in the Hughes report recommend a redress scheme for woman harm by surgical mesh . what conversation be the Minister have with Government colleague to make the redress scheme a reality for those woman , who be still suffer ? it be this Conservative Government who have commission the patient safety commissioner to do a report on what redress would look like . it be important that we take those recommendation in detail . we be look at that and we aim to respond to the commissioner in the come week . some sporting body have interpret the Equality Act 2010 in such a way that they believe they can not lawfully ban male who identify as girl or woman from compete in woman ' s sport . do my right hon . friend agree that that interpretation be not correct and that it be lawful to exclude all male from female sport to achieve safety and fairness for woman and girl ? I agree . there be so much misinformation out there and incorrect guidance that create confusion . I recently have a roundtable with the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , and she and I agree that sport body in the UK need to tackle this area more strongly . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 15 May . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . resident across the eastern village of Woking , in Byfleet , West Byfleet and Pyrford , have see a large number of propose development in recent year . of particular concern be an area of beautiful field near West Hall , where more than 1 , 000 constituent have write back to I in recent week , express their deep concern about the lack of provision of local infrastructure and the potential effect on the local environment . my resident and I will fight on , but do the Prime Minister agree that Labour ' s proposal to concrete over vast swathe of the green belt in Surrey and the south - east would be a complete calamity ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . unlike both the Liberal Democrats and Labour , who believe in top - down target that would decimate the green belt , we believe in local people have a say over their local community . that be why we be ensure that we make good use of brownfield land and that we conserve and enhance our precious countryside for generation to come . we now come to the Leader of the Opposition . on Monday , the Prime Minister treat we to his seventh relaunch in 18 month . he vow to take on the danger that threaten the country , so it be good to see the Minister for common sense immediately take up that mantle by announce a vital crackdown on the gravest of threat — colourful lanyard . meanwhile , in the real world , after 14 year of Tory Government , the prison system be in chaos . do the Prime Minister think that his decision to let prisoner out 70 day early make our country more secure ? civil service impartiality be an important principle that we be right to support — perhaps the right hon . and learn Gentleman could ask his chief of staff about that . what I do on Monday be outline the serious security threat that our country face from an axis of authoritarian state : Russia poison people on our street ; China target our democracy ; and iranian proxy fire on british ship . yet he will not back our plan to increase defence spending and we all know why — especially since the deputy leader and the shadow Foreign Secretary vote to scrap our nuclear deterrent . it be clear that you simply can not trust Labour with our country ' s security . I appreciate that the Prime Minister have be busy on the frontline of the war against lanyard . he must have miss that I be the first to call for 2 . 5 % on defence spending . the last time that happen be under the last Labour Government . it need a credible plan , not his fantasy economic . I be disappointed to see that version 7 . 0 of the Prime Minister ' s time in office do not extend as far as answer question or give any information on those prisoner he be release early — basic detail such as how many , where be they and what crime have they commit . will he at least guarantee that none of the criminal who he be instruct prison to release early be consider high - risk ? there be strict eligibility criterion in place , with exclusion base on public safety . no one would be put on the scheme if they be deem a threat to public safety . the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about 2 . 5 % , but if he think that be important — I think he just stand up and acknowledge that it be the right thing to do — we have a fully fund plan to deliver an increase in defence spending . he and his party have refuse to match that commitment . just like his £ 46 billion — fully fund ! if anyone be look for the perfect metaphor for this shambolic Government , we see it on Monday . the Prime Minister wake up decide his late rebrand be " Mr Security " , but within hour the Tory party be be investigate for accidentally publish the personal detail of hundred of people . he must be the only tech bro — brother — in the country who can not work a debit card or send an email . [ interruption . ] but he have not answer my question , so I will try again . be any of the prisoner he be currently let out early consider to be high - risk ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman just show spectacularly why he be just not fit to lead this country into the future . this country have a proud tradition of lead the world . we lead the world when it come to the industrial revolution , but if he be around he would have probably call James Watt the steam bro . what we be do be prepare the country for the future . he talk about the prison scheme . let I be crystal clear : no one would be put on the scheme if they be deem a threat to the public . offender be subject to the tough of licensing condition and , if those condition be break , they be back in prison for considerably long . but what be his record on this ? he vote against tough sentence for violent criminal . he actually oppose new power for the police to tackle violent crime and vote against new law that have arrest 1 , 000 criminal people smuggler . the message be crystal clear : he can not be trust to keep this country safe . I appreciate that all this rebranding have take all the Prime Minister ' s time , but he may want to read the recent inspection report into Lewes prison on this topic , which I have ask he twice about . it document , on page 5 : " high - risk prisoner … be release at short notice without sufficient … planning " . page 46 state : " a high - risk prisoner have his release date bring forward … despite have a history of stalk , domestic abuse and … a restraining order . " in the report ' s word , " he be a risk to child " . do the early release of stalker , domestic abuser and those consider a risk to child sound like the work of someone who be make the country more secure ? as I say , no one should be put on the scheme if they be a threat to the public . let I be crystal clear : it do not apply to anyone serve a life sentence , anyone convict of a serious violent offence , anyone convict of terrorism , or anyone convict of a sex offence . crucially , in contrast to the system Labour put in place , governor in the prison service have an absolute lock so that no one be put on the scheme who should not be . labour ' s scheme let out thousand upon thousand of violent offender on to our street and even two terrorist . thankfully , we have toughen up sentencing against those criminal with new legislation , but the right hon . and learn Gentleman vote against it . well , I be glad to hear that those on life sentence be not be release early . the Prime Minister may not think that release domestic abuser be a problem , but Labour have repeatedly call for domestic abuser to be exempt from the scheme to release prisoner early . his Government have shamefully ignore those call . now that we have the evidence that domestic abuser be be release early — the Lewes report — will he finally change course and back Labour ' s call ? I have be crystal clear . there be an absolute governor lock on people who be put on the scheme , in contrast to the last Labour scheme . prisoner be let out with no supervision , no electronic tag . in fact , 80 , 000 offender be let out — 16 , 000 be violent , lead to multiple murder commit . we fix that system . when it come to this question , not only be we build the big prison programme in history , but we be deploy rapid deployment cell . on the conservative Benches , we understand the importance of prison , unlike one of his Front Benchers , who say , " Prison doesn ' t prevent crime " . it be always the same with the Labour party : soft on crime and soft on criminal . the Prime Minister be literally let criminal out early . the only answer to the question that I have ask — whether domestic abuser should be exempt from his early release scheme — from anyone who be serious about security be yes . perhaps the most ludicrous part of the Prime Minister ' s speech on Monday be when he say that he would not accept the idea that any of the problem people be face have be cause by 14 year of Conservative Government . he will not say how many prisoner the Government have release early ; he will not say whether they be burglar , abuser or stalker ; he will not say where they be or what support their victim be get . yet he think he have the right to tell people that they can not blame his government for any of it . do he not think that , rather than confiscate lanyard like some jump - up milk monitor , he should stop issue " get out of jail free " card to prisoner who be consider to be a risk to child ? another week with no idea and absolutely no plan for the country ! the Opposition have have 14 year to think about nothing but the future , but all they can do be talk about the past . I be surprised that the Leader of the Opposition do not bring up what have happen in the week since we last meet . statistic have confirm that we have have the joint fast growth rate in the G7 this year . the Bank of England have say that the economy have " turn a corner " , EY have say that our growth be " impressive " , and the chief economist at the independent Office for National Statistics have say that " the economy be go gangbuster . " the shadow Chancellor may want to copy and paste their comment into her next speech — or do she think that they be all " gaslighte " the british public too ? while I understand the need to upgrade our broadband infrastructure , it can not be right that a company call BRSK be propose to erect telegraph pole at the Squirrels estate in Hayley Green , in my constituency . the resident be 100 % opposed to these proposal , which go against the guidance . do the Prime Minister agree that BRSK should abandon its proposal , that there should be a review of permit development right in relation to this type of infrastructure , and that he should give Ofcom more power to investigate breach ? I thank my hon . friend for rightly champion the view of his constituent on this important topic . network operator must follow legal obligation when deploy their network and Ofcom can , in fact , investigate report of failure to follow those obligation . I know that the Minister for Data and Digital Infrastructure , my hon . friend the Member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) , meet representative of the sector and Ofcom recently to raise concern about report of poor pole siting and ask operator to share infrastructure , and I will ask she specifically to give my hon . friend a more detailed update . I call the leader of the Scottish National party . on Monday , the Prime Minister outline what he consider to be extremist threat to our society , and in do so he actively compare North Korea , Iran and Russia with those people in Scotland who believe in independence , so can I ask he to rise , once , to the standard befit his office , and apologise for those puerile and pathetic remark ? that be not what I say , but I will say to the hon . Gentleman that his party be indeed a threat to the integrity of the United Kingdom . I hate to remind he that that be literally its entire purpose . when the people of Scotland accept the referendum result in 2014 , it be the SNP that didn ' t . it go on create a Minister for independence , focus on constitutional wrangling and ignore the need of the people . education standard be fall and taxis be rise . it be the right hon . Gentleman who should finally do the right thing : end the obsession with independence , and put the need of the scottish people first . let we be clear . what the Prime Minister do be not just equate my colleague and I to dangerous despot across the world ; he proactively compare almost half the scottish population to a war criminal like Vladimir Putin , and he do so as their Prime Minister , as the man who represent they on the world stage and as the man who on these isle be task with defend their liberty and their democracy . we know that his sorry time in office be rapidly come to a conclusion , but be this really how he want to be remember ? as ever , the right hon . Gentleman be distract from the actual record of what the SNP be do in Scotland . this obsession with independence mean that scottish schoolchildren be be let down , plummet down international league table ; the Scottish NHS be the only place in the United Kingdom where funding be actually fall in real term ; and taxis be go up for ordinary hard - work family and small business . that be what the SNP be do in Scotland while this UK Government be deliver for they . will the Prime Minister join I in congratulate Uxbridge College , which have recently enter into a pioneer partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ? this be groundbreake work for the further education sector and it will have great benefit for local business and local student , and for the education sector and the local economy . I join my hon . friend in congratulate Uxbridge College and the West London Institute of Technology on their collaboration with MIT . this be equip student with the skill of the future that local business require , and that be very much the story of this Government , with the big long - term settlement for post - 16 education in this country in year and a proud record of create over 5 . 5 million apprenticeship since 2010 — provide opportunity for all , while the Labour party want to halve the number of apprenticeship and put a brake on people ' s aspiration . my party , Plaid Cymru , have secure a crucial win for our farmer as Labour in Wales be force to pause the sustainable farming scheme . we have do our bit for farmer ; now it be time the Prime Minister do his . harmful trade deal and Brexit check be hit our world - famous Welsh lamb and beef . will he therefore guarantee to Welsh farmer that he will never again sign a deal that threaten their interest ? if the right hon . Lady care about Welsh farmer , perhaps she should stop prop up the Welsh Labour Government . it be actually the work of the Welsh Conservatives that ensure that there be a spotlight on the Labour Government ' s proposal in Wales , which would have lead to thousand of job loss and less food security for our country , and destroy rural income . farmer rightly describe it as " bleak " , " damaging " and " shocking " , just like the Labour party ' s approach to rural Britain . Barnet Hospital ' s A & E be expand , Finchley Memorial Hospital have have its diagnostic hub boost by new equipment and there be more appointment in general practice locally than there be before the pandemic , but I still have constituent who be wait too long for NHS care , so can I urge the Prime Minister to redouble his effort to grow the NHS workforce and get wait time down ? I be delighted to hear about the new community diagnostic centre at my right hon . friend ' s local hospital . we be work tirelessly to reduce the overall NHS waiting list , which have come down by around 200 , 000 since September last year . that be an achievement in light of the pressure from industrial action , but she be right : there be more to do . our productivity plan will free up clinician to spend more time with patient and , to her point , our long - term plan for the NHS will ensure that we train more doctor and more nurse to meet the workforce requirement of the NHS for the future . thirty thousand palestinian death be not enough to move this Prime Minister to end arm sale to Israel . the killing of british aid worker be not enough to move the Prime Minister to end arm sale . it even seem that an all - out assault on Rafah , with all the death and destruction that would entail , would not be enough for he , unlike the US , so just what on earth would be enough finally to move this Prime Minister into the same position as the majority of the british public and end arm sale to Israel ? I point out to the hon . Gentleman that , unlike the US , the UK Government do not directly sell arm to Israel , and neither do the UK Government offer any military lethal aid package to Israel , as the US do . he should not conflate these issue . as part of the Government ' s robust arm control regime , we regularly review advice to ensure compliance with international law , and Ministers act in accordance with that advice . as the hon . Gentleman know , our position with regard to export licence be unchanged follow the most recent assessment , and it be , indeed , in line with other partner , include the United States . as a member of the Commonwealth War Graves Commission , I be delighted that the Prime Minister find time yesterday to ignite the light of liberation at the start of its journey to Normandy to commemorate the sacrifice make for the liberation of Europe . in this War Graves Week , will my right hon . friend join I in confirm that stand up to tyrant who bring about war in Europe be as much in our national interest today as it be 80 year ago ? I thank my right hon . friend for his work as a commissioner on the Commonwealth War Graves Commission . he raise an important point about authoritarian state with different value from ours become increasingly assertive . it be right that we build our security in uncertain time to defend and protect our country , our value and our interest . that be why we make the generational decision to increase our defence spending . it be crystal clear that only the conservative party can be trust with our nation ' s security . on 2 June , the Levenmouth railway reopen after year of community campaigning but , just at that point , TSB have announce that it be close its Leven bank branch . bank loss hollow out community and be an impediment to small business . Cash Access UK have say that it will roll out 100 banking hub by the end of the year , and the Financial Conduct Authority be consult , but do the Prime Minister accept that the Government have be too slow on this ? what else will he do to prevent banking desert from emerge ? as I have repeatedly say from this Dispatch Box , it be imperative that bank and building society recognise the need of all customer , include those who still need to use in - person cash service . that be why we legislate to protect access to cash as part of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 . as a result , customer can access cash and banking service through a wide range of channel , include post office , atm and telephone and community initiative such as banking hub . double child rapist and murderer Colin Pitchfork be have yet another parole hear in the next few week . as well as the brutal murder , this man expose himself to over 1 , 000 girl and woman . as the MP for South Leicestershire , I distribute a constituency - wide survey ask my constituent about Parole Board reform . the problem be that the reconsideration mechanism rule allow Mr Pitchfork to ask for a reconsideration of a reconsider decision limitless time , and it be cost - free to he . will the Prime Minister arrange a meeting between I and the Justice Secretary to discuss necessary change to the reconsideration mechanism rule ? will he arrange for I to deliver the finding of the survey , to which thousand of constituent respond , to his no . 10 policy team ? I commend my hon . friend for his tireless campaign on this case . I know the whole House will join I in recognise the horror of the crime commit by Colin Pitchfork and in send our condolence to the victim ' family . we be reform the parole system to add a ministerial check on the release of the most dangerous criminal , and we be change the law so that , for society ' s most depraved killer , life mean life . I will , of course , arrange for the finding of my hon . friend ' s survey to be properly consider , and I will ensure that he meet the Justice Secretary to discuss his proposal far . in Gaza , Israel have attack hospital , attack refugee camp and kill aid worker . Israel have block vital aid , turn off water supply and deny access to food . Israel have kill thousand upon thousand of innocent civilian as the world watch , trample all over international humanitarian law . no other country would be allow to act with such impunity . why do the Prime Minister allow Israel to get away with it unchallenged ? and why do he continue to act as a bystander to such horror ? we do support , and I do support , Israel ' s right to defend itself and remove the threat that Hamas , the terrorist organisation , pose to its people . but I be also deeply concerned about the grow humanitarian crisis in Gaza , and I have consistently make that point at this Dispatch Box and to Prime Minister Netanyahu . we must see further action to ensure that more aid get to people who desperately need it ; the Rafah and Kerem Shalom crossing must be open to allow more aid in . we be do everything we can , treble our investment ; try to get aid in by land , air and sea ; and currently work with ally to build a temporary pier . the hon . Lady can rest assure that the Government will continue to do everything we can to get support to the people in Gaza who need it . last week , along with apprentice from the nuclear fuel company Urenco , I visit Coleg Menai in Llangefni . the student be excited , but they need certainty about the future of Wylfa before they commit to a career in nuclear . will the Prime Minister confirm when Great British Nuclear will decide whether Wylfa will be a gigawatt or a small modular reactor site , when my student can expect to see spade in the ground and when his brilliant nuclear Minister , the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , will be able to visit Wylfa again to announce some good news ? my hon . friend the Member for Ynys M ô n ( Virginia Crosbie ) be a tireless campaigner for the Wylfa nuclear site in her constituency . as she know , at the spring Budget the Chancellor announce that great British Nuclear have reach an agreement to purchase the site at Wylfa , and it and one other site will be vital to achieve our aim of more energy security from nuclear power . decision have not yet be make on the final site to be use , but , as ever , she make a very strong and compelling case for her area . I know that as soon as a decision have be make the Energy Secretary will be keen to update she at the early opportunity . in March , the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s report on 1950 woman ' s state pension injustice make it clear to the Government that the Department for Work and Pensions be guilty of maladministration ; that these woman have suffer significant injustice ; that they be owe compensation ; and that Parliament must urgently identify a mechanism for redress . nearly 279 , 000 woman have already die wait for justice , so when will the Prime Minister finally place before this House a mechanism for appropriate redress ? as I say to the House last week , I understand the strong feeling across the Chamber about these matter and the desire for urgency in address they . follow the ombudsman ' s multi - year investigation , it be imperative that we take the time to review the finding thoroughly ; I be not entirely sure I agree with the hon . Lady ' s characterisation of all of they so far . broadly , we be committed to make sure that pensioner have the dignity and security that they deserve , include through the triple lock , which be increase pension by £ 900 this year . I welcome tomorrow ' s debate on the ombudsman ' s report and we will , of course , take all view into account as we identify and implement next step . I know that my right hon . friend the Prime Minister take a personal interest in community pharmacy . community pharmacist play an essential role in reduce pressure on urgent care service by help people prevent ill health and manage long - term condition . Pharmacy First be a good example of Government commitment to community pharmacy . however , community pharmacy be under extreme financial pressure and some be close , include in St Ives . this year , 177 pharmacy have close , which compare with a figure of 116 in the same period in 2023 . will he do everything he can to ensure that fund be direct toward community pharmacy , so that our pharmacy friend can help the Government to deliver NHS service where and when they be most need ? as my hon . friend know , I care deeply about the future of our community pharmacy . there be over 10 , 500 community pharmacy across the country and they be work incredibly hard to serve their patient . I be pleased that about 80 % of people live within a 20 - minute walk of a pharmacy . that be why we be back they with Pharmacy First , with £ 645 million of extra funding , whereby people can now go to see their pharmacist , rather than their gp , to get treatment for the seven most common ailment , such as ear infection and the like . not only will that ensure that they can get treatment close to home , but it will help to deliver our plan to cut waiting list and get people the care they need more quickly . three North Tyneside school have be identify as have a structural problem — not reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — and hundred of pupil be now be teach off site . the cost of put those school right significantly outweigh the £ 3 . 5 million school condition allocation funding for all of North Tyneside . will the Prime Minister ensure that the Department for Education apply this policy : if it be alert to significant issue with a building that can not be manage with local resource , it will provide additional support on a case - by - case basis ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise the case . as she know , the Department for Education have provide extensive support and funding to all those school that have RAAC , which in the end be less than 1 % of all school that could have be affect . more generally , there be the very significant amount we be invest in school rebuilding and maintenance . I be sure the Education Secretary will have hear her concern and will write to she in due course . the clear message from yesterday ' s farm to Fork summit be that food security matter . as we await today ' s write statement on ground - mount solar , can my right hon . friend assure I that propose solar installation in my constituency , which would cover thousand of acre of agricultural land — from a 2 , 100 acre installation in the Claydons , call Rosefield , to small but equally destructive one , such as the one propose for an area near the village of Kimblewick — now have less chance of get approve ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this . particularly at a time of increase geopolitical risk , we must protect this nation ' s food security and our most valuable agricultural land . we can achieve our solar deployment target by use brownfield site and rooftop away from our good farmland . I know he look forward to the Energy Secretary ' s statement later today , which will ensure we avoid use our good agricultural land . like he , I agree that we should be back british farmer to produce more food . that be good for our country , our economy and our food security . I have see for myself the mouldy and damp accommodation that our military family be sometimes force to live in , so I be disappoint this week to find out that the officer in charge of accommodation write to family this month to say that request for non - urgent repair be not currently affordable . the Prime Minister have spend this week claim that defence be a priority , so when will he prioritise a safe , warm and decent home for the servicemen and woman who put their life on the line for we ? we be committed to ensure that our armed force personnel and their family have safe and well maintain accommodation . at this point , 96 % of service family accommodation meet or exceed the Government ' s decent home standard . last year , we put aside an extra £ 400 million of investment to improve thing . the Ministry of Defence have set up a dedicated hotline to ensure that when issue be report , those complaint be investigate by a professional surveyor . I know there have be several improvement make specifically to accommodation in the hon . Lady ' s area . we be able to continue back our armed force personnel and the job they do for we because the conservative party be the only party in this place that be committed to increase our defence spending . this week , the all - party parliamentary group on birth trauma publish our first report , call " listen to Mums : end the Postcode Lottery on Perinatal Care " . this be the first national inquiry by cross - party politician on the issue . we receive more than 1 , 300 testimonial from the public . I thank the Health Secretary for attend our report launch on Monday . I be delighted that she have agree to our headline recommendation for a national comprehensive maternity strategy , to be publish by NHS England . will the Prime Minister fully back our report and implement all our recommendation , to ensure that all mother in this country get the aftercare that they deserve ? I thank my hon . friend for her incredible campaigning on this issue . when we meet and discuss the issue , she present I personally with a copy of this important report . I be hugely grateful to she and the APPG on birth trauma for carefully consider the issue , and to all the brave woman who have come forward to share their story . I be delighted that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and the chief executive officer of the NHS both support the overarching recommendation for a comprehensive national strategy to improve maternity service . we will update the House on next step in due course , but we be fully commit to improve the quality and consistency of care for woman throughout pregnancy , birth and the critical month that follow . when adult rape case take two year , on average , to complete , it be no wonder that 62 % of all rape survivor drop out of the process . give that just 2 . 5 % of rape record last year result in a charge and few still will end in conviction , it be no wonder that the Victims ' Commissioner , Rape Crisis and other have argue that rape have be effectively decriminalise in this country . be the Prime Minister not ashame that , because of his Government ' s failing , victim and survivor be be put through a live hell in our criminal justice system ? while it be right that the hon . Lady raise this incredibly important topic , I completely disagree with her characterisation of how this Government have treat it . it be actually this government who previously introduce the rape review action plan , which be now show significant improvement in how we treat rape , end to end , through the criminal justice system . violence against woman and girl be now a strategic policing requirement for the first time ever . we have roll out Operation Soteria , so that police force have the expertise that they need . we have actually quadruple funding for victim support , with more independent domestic sexual violence adviser . there be new 24 / 7 support for victim . we have end the digital strip search and provide pre - trial cross - examination . all of that have mean improvement to the process , and we have see an increase in the average sentence for rape by a third since Labour be last in office — and by the way , Mr Speaker , we do that use a power that the hon . Lady ' s party vote against . Ukraine and Georgia ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Defence if he will make a statement on Russia ' s aggression relate to Ukraine and the situation in Georgia . we be on day 811 of Putin ' s so - call special military operation — an operation that be suppose to last for three day — and he have fail in all of his objective . the conflict be , of course , evolve and challenging . Russia ' s newly form northern grouping of force have attack Ukraine ' s Kharkiv region , take control of several village . by open up an additional axis of attack , Russia be almost certainly attempt to divert ukrainian resource away from other part of the frontline and to threaten Kharkiv , the second large city in Ukraine . we will not be divert from our commitment to provide Ukraine with the support that it need to prevail — because Ukraine will prevail . in April , the Prime Minister announce our large - ever and most comprehensive package of equipment from the United Kingdom , include equipment relate to long - range strike , air defence , artillery , reconnaissance , protect mobility , development of Ukraine ' s navy , airfield enablement , and munition to support the introduction of the F - 16 . the Prime Minister have also announce £ 500 million of additional funding , which take we to £ 3 billion of military aid to Ukraine this financial year . we continue to work with international ally and partner to ensure coherence , and to co - ordinate our support to Ukraine , include through the international capability coalition ; we co - lead the maritime and drone coalition . we recently announce a complete package of £ 325 million for cut - edge drone . that will deliver more than 10 , 000 drone for the ukrainian armed force . in March , we be pleased to congratulate the first 10 ukrainian pilot who complete their basic fly training in the United Kingdom . those trainee join more than 65 , 000 Ukrainians who have receive training in the UK since 2014 , include more than 39 , 000 recruit train since 2022 through Operation Interflex . turn to Georgia , we continue to observe with concern the event in Tbilisi , include yesterday ' s violent clash in and around the Georgian Parliament and the intimidation of peaceful protester . the United Kingdom , along with our partner , be commit to the right of peaceful protest , and we be concerned about the introduction of the law on transparency of foreign influence . the UK be a close friend of Georgia , and as such , we call for calm and restraint on all side . we hope to continue to work with Georgia , with which we have a deep and long - stand partnership , and to support the legitimate aspiration of the georgian people , as they pursue a free , sovereign and democratic future . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant a UQ on this important issue ; it be much appreciated . I also thank the Minister for his helpful response , and all right hon . and hon . member who have stay in the Chamber . we wake up to report of Ukraine attempt to push back in the Kharkiv region , and then hear the Russian Defence Ministry claim that its air force have destroy 10 long - range missile , know as ATACMS — army tactical missile system — that Ukraine ' s military launch at Crimea overnight . the medium reporting may have settle down , but the situation there be as volatile as it have ever be , and the ripple effect across the entire region continue . Secretary Blinken from President Biden ' s Administration be visit Ukraine to give it physical and military assistance and encouragement . the Minister will know that Georgia be also push forward legislation , as Russia try to restore its empire of old and control all its former satellite state . the russian threat be clearly undermine democratic process in the entire region . I understand and agree with the UK ' s clear public stance of support for Ukraine , and I congratulate the Government and the Minister on what have be do , and what will be do in future , but the situation demand further action . I be keen to get the Minister ' s response on what that further action will be . will he make clear what far , enhanced help we can give to facilitate the democratic process , aside from our vital military aid to the region ? the war that begin in 2022 be on the precipice . how can we ensure that the result be a victory for democracy and freedom — not simply for Ukraine but for Georgia , and for all of we globally ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for ask an extremely good and valid question that put the issue of Ukraine in regional context — in the context of the influence that Russia have seek to exert over its former satellite state . he be right that the frontline in Ukraine be turbulent . a full picture be yet to emerge , but we can be certain of our continued resolve to ensure that our ukrainian friend prevail ; that be the unavoidable direction of travel . the ongoing visit of Secretary Blinken remind we of the remarkable heft and scale of western support , in which we play our part very proudly . the resolute support of the friend of Ukraine will help it to prevail , despite turbulence and Russia ' s attempt to create a new dynamic on a very turbulent frontline . the hon . Gentleman ask cogent question about Georgia . he be right that Georgia know more than any other country about the depredation of a russian invasion , follow the horrify event of 2008 . we be clear that Georgia have the sovereign right to pursue its own autonomous path . if it seek to turn its eye to the west — towards NATO membership , and maybe membership of the European Union — it be the sovereign right of Georgia to forge its own destiny . we will continue to co - operate in earnest and sincere partnership with the Georgians , with whom we have a very meaningful defence relationship . I have have the pleasure of visit Tbilisi twice as a Foreign Office Minister , and of see the tremendous institutional work that we do with the Georgians , who have a fine defence tradition . I call the Chair of the Intelligence and Security Committee . do the Government share my view that just as soviet failure in Afghanistan lead , to a considerable extent , towards the downfall of the soviet empire , Putin ' s failure in Ukraine could have a similar effect on his future and ambition ; and that it be no coincidence that this renew russian attack take place before the aid that America have belatedly decide to give Ukraine have have a chance to arrive ? the answer be yes . one can see the extraordinary mobilisation of the russian state and society , and the huge expenditure that Putin be have to incur to maintain momentum in his fail military operation , as confirmation of long - term weakness . we now come to the shadow Minister . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for secure this urgent question . it be 811 day since Putin begin the full - scale illegal invasion of Ukraine . Russia have open a renew offensive in the Kharkiv region , but Ukrainians be continue to fight with huge courage . the UK be totally unite in support of Ukraine . the shadow Defence Secretary and shadow Foreign Secretary be in Kyiv for the last two day , and reaffirm that Labour ' s commitment to Ukraine be ironclad . if Putin win , he will not stop at Ukraine . that be why the Government have have , and will continue to have , Labour ' s full support for military aid to Ukraine and for reinforce NATO ' s ally across eastern Europe . every commitment of UK military aid since Putin invade have have Labour ' s full support , and that will continue . with a general election later this year , there may be a change in Government , but there will be no change to Britain ' s resolve in stand with Ukraine , confront russian aggression , and pursue Putin for his war crime . on Georgia , we be deeply concerned by the increase pressure on civil society freedom and by the intimidation of protester . the propose draft law be not in line with democratic value , and risk take Georgia away from the Euro - atlantic aspiration of the georgian people . what discussion have the Minister have with the US , the EU and other regional partner on the late development in Georgia ? be the UK put Georgia on the agenda for the G7 meeting in Italy and the upcoming European Political Community meeting ? what step be he take with our ally to counter russian disinformation and hybrid activity in Georgia and across the Caucasus , the western Balkans and the rest of Europe ? what support have be give to help Ukraine build up its air defence to stop air and drone strike on critical infrastructure , especially in the Kharkiv region ? how much of the money commit to the international fund for Ukraine have be spend and how much be leave to be spend ? the UK will stand with the Ukrainians for as long as it take for they to win . I be glad that the hon . Gentleman point out the remarkable courage of our ukrainian friend in their effort to counter the new axis of advance in the Kharkiv region , and we sincerely welcome the continued cross - party support for Ukraine . the hon . Gentleman express a concern , which we share , about the new law pass in Georgia . that be on the agenda of our discussion with ally ; it be beyond my scope to comment on what might be on the agenda for the G7 or the EPC , but it be certainly an issue of concern that we discuss with trust partner , and we have do so very frequently recently . a huge amount of institutional effort from our side be go into counter disinformation across the entire region , as well as in the western Balkans and central Asia — the former so - call satellite state of Russia , which have a particular vulnerability to disinformation from the Kremlin . I will not go into detail about that effort , but it be a significant piece of work and will continue to be important . the hon . Gentleman ask a good question about air defence . we have gift thousand of unit of air defence to Ukraine . there will surely be more to come . the uplift in financial support that we have announce will clearly be an issue for the Ukrainians through our gift programme , and air defence will feature heavily in that . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I congratulate the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on secure this important urgent question . the brutalisation of peaceful , ordinary Georgians and the hospitalisation of opposition leader David Katsarava be utterly shameful . can the Minister assure we that he will protest directly to the Georgian Government and call in the ambassador regard the abuse of the public that we be see on our screen daily ? on Ukraine , the fall of Avdiivka at the start of this year be the shameful result of allied inaction on get Ukraine what it need . that fall on we . we can not now see the same take place in Kharkiv , which be under assault for the reason set out already in this discussion . can the Minister please assure we that sufficient ammunition be reach the frontline now and update we on what we be do to procure sufficient artillery shell ? Ukraine , as ever , need we to give it enough to win and not just to survive . we of course express our concern about the direction of travel with regard to protest in Georgia . I know that the Foreign Office have make representation to the ambassador here and will continue to keep a watching brief on that issue . my hon . friend ask about Kharkiv . of course , ammunition supply be a central component of our effort , both politically and in term of what we be gift and source . we have give over 300 , 000 unit of ammunition . however , we acknowledge that we must all , in the coalition of friendly western nation , mobilise to a far great degree . that be why we think that initiative come from the Czech side and across all european and NATO partner be important . we must strain every sinew to ensure that the flow continue . I call the SNP spokesperson . those of we on the SNP Benches join the cross - party support , and I congratulate the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on secure the urgent question . to follow the question from the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee on what more we can do for Ukraine , do the Minister agree that now be the time for the UK to join other NATO ally in support the Czechia munition programme , on top of what have already be provide ? on Georgia , the Government state that their aim be " to advance Georgia ' s Euro - atlantic integration through … security cooperation and support for democratic reform . " give the Dream party ' s lurch away from democratic reform , how stable be that integration and security co - operation ? do the Minister agree that it be time for the people of Georgia to have their say on the Dream party ' s agenda ? we have not join the Czech programme because it would replicate work that we be already do , but we commend its activity and see it as part of a broad solution to mobilise effort to increase the flow of munition , so it be welcome . clearly , the political future of Georgia be a question for Georgians themselves , but we note that there be a lively debate , which have of course spill out on to the street of Tbilisi , about the direction of travel . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that the direction of travel — whether Euro - Atlantic or anything else — should be a function of the democratic expression of the people of Georgia . I applaud the number of personnel train under Operation Interflex , but do the Minister support my call to extend that operation to train ukrainian female defender volunteer ? yes , of course . we will train whoever the Ukrainians send we . I warn in 2014 that if we keep on feed the crocodile , the danger be that we would be last on the menu . that be why it be so important that we get the next step right over the next two year in make sure that Putin do not win in Ukraine . two thing still perplex I . first , why have we and our ally , as a united team , not dramatically ramp up the production of the artillery that Ukraine actually need ? secondly , why have we yet to seize russian state asset sit in british and european bank to repurpose they for reparation to pay for the reconstruction of Ukraine ? we be ramp up the production of artillery right across Europe and in state beyond Europe . that be a complex effort involve the military industrial base . those step be in place , and I be confident that we will see an increase in supply . the hon . Gentleman ask about state asset . of course we want that to be the outcome , but the route must be legal . we in Britain , relative to the size of our Army , have give more military equipment to Ukraine than anyone . we have now give the Ukrainians all our heavy artillery to help they fight . Kharkiv can not be allow to fall . but let we be honest : all the kit that the Ukrainians need to have win this war already — from F - 16s to long - range missile — have be sit in american storage depot for two year . when will we get it through to the occupant of the White House that if he carry on dither and the Russians take Kharkiv , not only do the Ukrainians lose , but he lose , too — literally ? my right hon . friend make a pertinent and correct point . of course , we lead as hard as we could in the aftermath of the invasion , and we lead the way with the critical provision of system such as NLAW — the next generation light anti - tank weapon . historian will reflect on whether the month follow the invasion be an opportunity miss to give a decisive advantage to our ukrainian friend , but our focus now be on ensure that , in the round and overwhelmingly , the combined effect of the huge package from the United States , as well as our and that of all friendly nation , can ensure that the Ukrainians maintain their defence and , ultimately , liberate their sovereign homeland . some time ago , I ask the Prime Minister about our relationship with Turkey . we might have some issue with Turkey , but the fact remain that , as it be geographically next door to Georgia , its strategic position be crucial . furthermore , Turkey have important link with many of the player in this deeply dangerous situation . what conversation be the Foreign Office have with Ankara about resolve this situation ? I think I can answer on behalf of my cross - departmental colleague by say that there be many conversation . we recognise the centrality of Turkey ' s importance as a strong NATO ally and a nation with tremendous military confidence . it have also make a remarkable contribution to the defence of Ukraine ' s sovereignty by the provision of the remarkable Bayraktar weapon system . I welcome the fact that the Minister say that the UK Government want to continue work with Georgia — that be quite right — but be he aware that Jim O ' Brien , the senior US State Department official , say yesterday that the relationship between the US and Georgia could be at risk and review , and that financial and travel restriction could be impose ? be it not the case that all that could be avoid if the Georgian Government drop the foreign agent law , or at least amend it significantly ? my right hon . friend , who speak with authority , be right in his analysis . of course we note the US view , and we have express our concern . we will continue to use our strong relationship with the Georgians to ensure that they amend , for their own interest , their behaviour . leed ' sister city be Kharkiv . the people of Leeds be gravely concerned that the invasion of Kharkiv be imminent . colleague have already ask about artillery shell , which be in short supply , but even bullet be in short supply . what be the UK do to supply the ukrainian defence of Kharkiv with bullet ? be we upscale humanitarian aid to Kharkiv and utilise it for the evacuation of civilian who want to leave ? will the UK Government supply additional visa for Kharkivians who want to come to the UK ? the people of Leeds be ready to welcome they into their home . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question — I now realise Leeds be the sister city of Kharkiv , which be interesting . we be put more money than ever before into lethal aid support for Ukraine — an additional £ 500 million will take our support this year to £ 3 billion , and a lot of that will go on munition — but humanitarian aid be also significant and be an important part of the picture . like any bully , Russia will advance if it feel that the west be not support Ukraine . the Russians have see that we in the west have not be support Ukraine enough because of the lack of ammunition go in . for any soldier , the supply of ammunition be — as the Minister be fully aware — crucial to confidence and morale . can we give the big possible push to ensure that what the Americans have say be go to the frontline reach it ? I see this morning that they say that some ammunition have already arrive . have it already arrive , and what be the timetable for the rest ? this be completely unfair on the armed force out there . my right hon . friend ' s analogy of Russia as a bully be absolutely correct . we be focus on increase ammunition supply . my judgment be that the $ 61 billion package from the US , combine with our additional support , will result in a tangible improvement in the operational situation on the frontline . as we know , Georgia , alongside Ukraine , aspire to join NATO . do the Minister agree , therefore , that it be important that Georgia respect peaceful protest ? on Ukraine , with the Russians close in on be within artillery range of Kharkiv , what military support can we deliver now to prevent Russia from be able to bombard that city , which would be catastrophic for the civilian population ? I agree with my hon . friend ' s analysis of Georgia ' s NATO aspiration — that be clear . the support we can give now be to continue our remarkable supply of lethal aid , particularly with regard to air defence . what Putin be do in Georgia now be exactly the same thing that he try to do in Ukraine 10 year ago , yet unlike the American Government , the british Government do not seem to be think of any recalibration at all with the current georgian regime , which be beat up its own citizen in the street of Tbilisi . why have the georgian ambassador in London not at least be summon ? what action , rather than just word , have be take to make our view completely clear to the current Georgian Government that their behaviour and this legislation be unacceptable ? in truth , those be question for my colleague in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , but our analysis be that the strong relationship we have with the Georgians in the defence sector be an important mean of ensure that their direction of travel be a positive one . there be grow concern across central and northern Europe about Georgia . will the Minister have conversation with colleague in government to ensure that the commitment to NATO of our partner across Europe be increase , to prepare for the undoubted expansionism that Putin be currently engage in and that he will probably step up in the come month ? the answer be yes , Mr Speaker . of course , the hon . Gentleman will have observe , as I have , that the consequence of Putin ' s effort to demonstrate NATO ' s weakness have be exactly the opposite : NATO be now large and strong than it be before February 2022 . we will lead the way in ensure that all member meet the investment require to be a member of that tremendous defensive alliance . I congratulate the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on secure this urgent question . the United Kingdom have lead the world in support Ukraine militarily , economically , diplomatically and politically , and as a former Minister with responsibility for sanction , I see the real impact that the United Kingdom could have with its partner in work together on this issue . there be , however , a real loophole within the international strategy to cut off Putin ' s finance : the United Nations peacekeeping force , of which we be a member , currently procure its military helicopter from Russia , so that money go back into Putin ' s pocket . be the Minister or the Government aware of that fact , and now that they be , will the Government raise it at the G7 to urgently ensure we cut off Putin ' s finance ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that point , and will ensure that my colleague , the Minister with responsibility for sanction , take it into account . we be unite in our determination to support Ukraine as it seek to defeat Putin . Labour welcome the creation of a new UK - latvian drone capability coalition early this year and the UK ' s commitment to spend £ 200 million on drone for Ukraine . can the Minister confirm when the first drone under that initiative will be deliver to ukrainian force ? very soon . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Georgia , I have watch the demonstration in Tbilisi with no little concern . although I have notice no new movement of Georgia towards Russia , as some have be suggest — whether culturally , economically or militarily — it would appear that the current Georgian Dream Government be become more ready to use the apparatus of the state to suppress political dissent , free speech and the medium , sometimes with violence . will my hon . friend impress on his georgian counterpart , as an ally and a friend , that this be not how democratic country behave if they wish to join western institution and participate as a free democratic value country ? my hon . friend be correct : Georgia must live up to the standard require if it be to be sincere about its democratic aspiration , and we do make that point to our friend in Georgia . we be all rightly proud of the skill of our armed force personnel and the training that they be provide for Ukrainians through Operation Interflex , but I understand that that programme be only designate up until this summer . can the Minister confirm that it will continue for as long as it be need ? wholeheartedly , Mr Speaker . our commitment to train our ukrainian ally be endure , and of course , we will always respond to the type and form of training that they themselves require . event in the United States , and the understandable focus on the conflict in Gaza and the unacceptable loss of life there , have lead some to argue that our support for Ukraine be waver . can the Minister seek to put a stop to that deliberate disinformation by set out that our support for Ukraine be absolute ; that we stand in solidarity with the Ukrainians in their fight against Putin ' s illegal aggression ; and that in some respect they be battle on our behalf , because as we see , Putin ' s aggression will not stop with Ukraine ? give that , will the Minister also set out how we will ensure that the ammunition that be so desperately need get to the frontline as quickly as possible ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s question . by any measure , our commitment to Ukraine be significant and unwavering — that be recently express by the increase in our annual support from £ 2 . 5 billion of lethal aid to £ 3 billion , and by the 100 - year defensive alliance that the Prime Minister sign with President Zelensky on his recent visit to Kyiv . I thank my colleague and hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for secure this urgent question . what help and support be we as a nation give to those country in eastern Europe , such as Estonia , that feel under threat from the potential threat of Putin want to expand back into what be formerly russian territory ? that be a very good question . the support we be give be welcome those country as brother and sister country into the defensive NATO alliance . in our case , we be very proud to have our enhance forward presence battle group in Tallin and Estonia . any member who have visit that battle group , as I have , know that there be a tremendous esprit de corps generate by the tremendous joint defensive work carry out by our british soldier alongside their estonian ally . Bill Presented Delivery Services ( drive Licence Requirements ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mr Barry Sheerman , support by Debbie Abrahams , present a Bill to require a person carry out delivery service by motorcycle or mope to hold a full licence ; to provide for penalty for an employer who employ a delivery rider who hold a provisional licence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June , and to be print ( Bill 218 ) . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . it have be my honour to be the MP for Hemel Hempstead for the past 19 year . whenever I have have the opportunity , I have always try to raise and honour the name of Captain Robert Laurence Nairac , George Cross , my captain in the 1st Battalion Grenadier Guards . he be lose , or capture — whatever way we want to describe it — on the night of 14 May . we think , although we do not actually know , that he be murder the follow day . today be the anniversary . it be right and proper that this House acknowledge the work of our armed force , particularly on Op Banner , but we should recognise that Captain Nairac be a different sort of officer in many way — I think we would all accept that . for instance , he break my nose for the first time while spar in the boxing ring , I must admit , but he also leave six pint of Guinness on the NAAFI bar at the end of the evening because I give he a good dig back . that be what he be about : he be in the armed force and in Northern Ireland because he want to make a difference for the people of Northern Ireland . that be something that this House should respect . first , may I say that I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for inform I that he would raise this matter ? as he know , it be not a point of order for the Chair , but the House will understand why he want to put that point on record , and he have do so eloquently , as he have do in previous year . far to that point of order , Mr Speaker . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Hemel Hempstead ( Sir Mike Penning ) , who almost every year have visit the church of St Mary de Lode in Gloucester in order to pay tribute to and commemorate the work do by Captain Nairac , GC , whose memory be also celebrate there through a stain - glass window in his honour . I be very grateful to my right hon . friend for continue to raise this matter year after year . once again , that be also not a point of order , but it be certainly on the record . child Sexual Abuse Material ( Digital Devices ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to provide for a power to require a person to grant access to their digital device in the course of a lawful inspection under the Customs and Excise Management Act 1979 where there be a reasonable suspicion that the device may contain child sexual abuse material ; to provide that refusal to grant such access constitute an offence ; and for connected purpose . I begin by outline the scale of the problem this Bill seek to tackle . up to 835 , 000 individual in the United Kingdom represent a sexual risk to child , accord to the national strategic assessment . we also know that 85 % of online offender be hand - on abuser , too . one in four girl and one in six boy be sexually assault before the age of 18 . child sexual abuse material — or CSAM — be abundant online , so much so that almost 30 million unique CSAM file be know to UK law enforcement , and the number be grow all the time . the digital age have bring with it tremendous opportunity for advancement in many area , communication have never be easy and the world have never be small , but as the world have become small , criminal network have grow large . law enforcement be still have to play catch up , and as a result — tragically , unforgivably — more and more child be become victim to sexual predator . the UK Border Force be our first line of defence against people travel with the intent to cause harm , whatever that may be . its search power have be sufficient to stop terrorist and drug smuggler , but they be not sufficient to stop child abuser . that be because the law govern the scope of its search power be draft in the 1970 — long before the digital age . a single photo take from one of today ' s smartphone could easily exceed the entire capacity of even the high - spec 1970s floppy disk , then at the revolutionary cutting edge of computing . it be an era when it be not even conceivable that sexual predator would be travel across border with potentially thousand of illegal photo and video in the palm of their hand . the outdated law in question be the Customs and Excise Management Act 1979 . it grant the power for a Border Force agent to search an individual and their baggage to detect the import or export of prohibit good . Border Force do not require reasonable ground to suspect that the individual be in possession of prohibit good to utilise this power of search in a port environment . while existing power permit Border Force to require an individual to present their baggage , include their digital device , those power do not extend to require a person to open that baggage — to unlock a device . if they refuse to do so when ask , there be nothing that Border Force can do . in previous decade , CSAM would amount to a stack of polaroid , which be often unmistakable and readily detectable . now all this material be carry digitally , and often behind encryption software and passcode . to expand on this point , there have be several example of lone individual identify as possess belonging associate with the commission of sexual offence against child — for example , toy , lubricant , condom and child ' s underwear . in these circumstance , where it be reasonable to suspect that the individual may be in possession of digital CSAM , Border Force can not inspect the digital device unless the individual consent . each time this happen , we could be let a dangerous abuser into the United Kingdom undetecte . as I mention in my Westminster Hall debate on the same subject late last year , even when notify , it can take week for the police to trace an individual , and there have be case where a suspect have rape two or more young girl before be catch . my Bill give Border Force the power it need to prevent this . under it , an individual refuse to unlock their digital device would be subject to arrest for a new offence of obstruction . if an international passenger of any nationality arrive in or depart from the UK and Border Force reasonably suspect the individual to be involve in child sexual abuse , Border Force officer will ask they to unlock their digital device so that they can perform a scan to determine , beyond any reasonable doubt , the presence of CSAM as verify by the Home Office ' s database . if the individual complie , the scan will take place , and if content be detect , the individual will be arrest under the 1979 Act . if they refuse , they commit an offence , and their device will be seize and forensically examine by the police or the National Crime Agency . I want to go into a little more detail on how the technology now available would be use , because I know that some hon . member will have concern about privacy . the power to search a device would be govern by a standard operating procedure whereby an inspection would be undertake via a scan — not a download — that only search a device ' s memory for a file code or hashtag associate with known CSAM file . these code be hold on a Home Office database contain nearly 30 million unique file . there would be no manual device inspection or collateral search . this also mean that Border Force officer would not be subject to any horrific material themselves , as they would likely have be in previous decade . it be worth note that a similar power already exist for the police in relation to terrorist material under schedule 7 to the Terrorism Act 2000 . with these new power , Border Force would become a full part of the multi - agency response need to help prevent the proliferation of CSAM online . it would also mean it could meet the recommendation of the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse to increase proactive detection of previously unidentified person , and therefore safeguard child from new or further harm . I mention early that over 800 , 000 people in the UK present a sexual risk to child . what I do not say be that very few of these individual have be identify . with the new power that I have outline , Border Force will go from have a near - zero impact on locate offender to play an active role in prevent the sexual abuse of child . furthermore , it will be able to prevent potential first - generation CSAM from make it on to the internet . detection at the border can be a starting point for further investigation , such as identify other device or item hold at the suspect ' s home and look into other offence against young people . that be the case in New Zealand , a member of the five Eyes intelligence - sharing group , which bring in similar power for its border force under its Customs and Excise Act 2018 . it report a near 100 % increase in intelligence - lead interdiction against travel child sex offender since the law be pass . to conclude , for many year I have campaign against all form of child abuse . in February last year , the Marriage and Civil Partnership ( Minimum Age ) Act 2022 , which I sponsor , come into force . it mean that be it illegal , under any circumstance , for a child under 18 to be marry . we have bring an end to this form of abuse , but it be wrong that we still have law so outdated that they allow sexual predator and abuser to escape justice . it be also a great frustration that we must expend serious parliamentary time and resource to enact what I believe be a simple and inarguable case . pass this Bill would give the UK Border Force the ability to play an active role in identify previously unknown individual who may represent a danger to child . in do so , we would be far protect our child from the lifelong trauma that so often result from be the victim of sexual abuse . child abuse be happen now , and these power should be there to confront it . question put and agree to . order , that Mrs Pauline Latham , Mrs Sheryll Murray , Mr Ian Liddell - Grainger , Mrs Heather Wheeler and Martin Vickers present the Bill . Mrs Pauline Latham accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June , and to be print ( Bill 219 ) . Criminal Justice Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question propose , that the Order of 28 November 2023 ( Criminal Justice Bill : Programme ) be varied as follow : ( 1 ) paragraph ( 4 ) and ( 5 ) of the order shall be omit . ( 2 ) proceeding on consideration and Third reading shall be take in two day in accordance with the follow provision of this order . ( 3 ) proceeding on consideration — ( a ) shall be take on each of those day in the order show in the first column of the following table , and ( b ) shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the time specify in the second column of the table . proceeding time for conclusion of proceeding first day new clause and new Schedules , other than new clause and new schedule to be take on the second day ; amendment to clause 1 to 17 , clause 28 to 36 and schedule 1 and 2 , other than amendment relate to abortion . six hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this Order second day new clause and new schedule relate to the police , policing and police power , the prevention , detection and reporting of offence , management of offender , proceed of crime and property connect with criminal behaviour , serious crime prevention order , begging , rough sleeping , anti - social behaviour , crime and disorder strategy , public order , retail crime or conversion practice , other than new clause and new schedule relate to abortion ; amendment to clause 18 to 27 , clause 37 to 89 and schedule 3 to 9 , other than amendment relate to abortion . three hour after the commencement of proceeding on consideration on the second day new clause and new schedule relate to abortion ; amendment relate to abortion ; remain proceeding on consideration . six hour after the commencement of proceeding on consideration on the second day ( 4 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) it be an honour to open this debate and bring the Criminal Justice Bill back to the House for consideration on Report . this important legislation be focus — order . we be consider the programme motion . do the Minister wish to speak to the programme motion ? no . do anybody else wish to speak to the programme motion ? I rise to speak to the programme motion , which be table yesterday shortly before the rise of the House . it relate to the consideration of hundred of amendment and new clause to a serious and substantial Bill . indeed , they relate to some of the most fundamental issue affect our constituent . today there be a debate on amendment and new clause that cover domestic abuse , human trafficking and the transfer of prisoner to foreign prison , yet the House be make aware of that only yesterday evening . I be sure that member across the House will have be up late try their good to prepare , as I be , but my duty to my constituent compel I to place on the record my shock and worry about what this mean , not only for parliamentary democracy but for the quality of legislation that will be pass . last week there be an absurd situation when we have a deadline for table amendment and new clause , yet we do not know what business the debate would cover . then , at my last count , 134 government amendment be table virtually at the last minute . those be not unsubstantial or merely technical amendment , but include measure relate to new offence that would have potentially significant and wide reach consequence for our civil liberty , and could even result in imprisonment . these measure include further power for the police to exercise without accountability . I do not need to remind the House that many of our constituent be very worried about the power that the police already have and how they use they . it be no secret that trust in the police be already low , particularly among woman , survivor and people from diverse background . whatever the different view across the House , surely there be a consensus that measure of such significance , which could have severe and potentially life - change consequence for our constituent , should not be pass without appropriate scrutiny , and without many of we even know of their existence . accordingly , there have certainly be very little public awareness or debate . as Members of Parliament , we have a profound duty to those who elect we regard the scrutiny of legislation . this be not only about have a function democracy ; this be about have workable and function law . there be many question about impact assessment , and we do not know what the full disability and equality implication will be . for example , Government new clause 96 prohibit wear or otherwise use an item for " the purpose of conceal … identity " in a locality designate by the police . before even get to a fundamental assessment of the measure as a whole , there be many question and point of clarity that my constituent would want , at the very least , to be publicly establish . for example , how will the provision impact muslim woman who wear the hijab or the niqab , because the phrasing refer to use an item " wholly or mainly " for such a purpose ? in closing , let I place on the record my alarm at this Government ' s now fairly frequent tabling of large number of amendment on Report , and at the short notice , compress time for debate and scrutiny , and what many of we experience as utter confusion regard timetabling . that be a dangerous precedent to set , and it be not in the spirit of parliamentary democracy . I urge the Government to withdraw the extra substantial amendment and allow for the proper , democratic , sensible and transparent scrutiny that our constituent expect of we . I rise to follow the hon . member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) . I understand the point she make , but we would of course want to ensure that people listen to the debate be aware that there be two day of debate on the Bill — this week and next week — which I hope will afford some of the scrutiny that she be rightly call for . I gently suggest to those on the Treasury Bench that they may want to hold one - to - one meeting with those of we who be interested in a number of the area on which the Government have now table amendment , just a couple of day before this important report stage , so that we can get a proper understanding of what they be try to do . it would perhaps have be prudent to do so before Report . question put and agree to . Criminal Justice Bill [ 1st Allocated Day ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 86 - create purport sexual image of adult ' ( 1 ) in the Sexual Offences Act 2003 , after section 66AC ( insert by Schedule 2 to this Act ) insert — " 66AD create purport sexual image of adult ( 1 ) a person ( a ) commit an offence if — ( a ) a intentionally create a purport sexual image of another person ( B ) , ( b ) a do so with the intention of cause b alarm , distress or humiliation , and ( c ) b do not consent to the creation of the purport sexual image . ( 2 ) a person ( a ) commit an offence if — ( a ) a intentionally create a purport sexual image of another person ( B ) , ( b ) a do so for the purpose of A or another person obtain sexual gratification , ( c ) b do not consent to the creation of the purport sexual image , and ( d ) a do not reasonably believe that b consent . ( 3 ) " purport sexual image " of a person mean an image which — ( a ) appear to be or include a photograph or film of the person ( but be not , or be not only , a photograph or film of the person ) , ( b ) appear to be of an adult , and ( c ) appear to show — ( i ) the person participate or engage in a sexual act which be not of a kind ordinarily do in public , ( ii ) the person do a sexual thing which be not of a kind ordinarily do in public , ( iii ) all or part of the person ' s expose genital or anus , or ( iv ) all or part of the person ' s expose breast , except where what appear to be show be something of a kind ordinarily see in public . ( 4 ) in this section , a reference to create a purport sexual image of a person do not include do so by modify a photograph or film of the person where what be create by the modification be an image which — ( a ) appear to show the person , and ( b ) do not appear to show something within subsection ( 3 ) ( c ) ( i ) to ( iv ) which , or a person who , be not show in the photograph or film . ( 5 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable on summary conviction to a fine . 66AE create purport sexual image of adult : definition etc ( 1 ) this section apply for the purpose of section 66ad . ( 2 ) " Consent " to the creation of a purport sexual image include general consent cover the particular act of creation as well as specific consent to that particular act . ( 3 ) whether a belief be " reasonable " be to be determine have regard to all the circumstance , include any step A have take to ascertain whether b consent . ( 4 ) a reference to an " image " , " photograph " or " film " include datum store by any mean which be capable of conversion into an image , photograph or film . ( 5 ) an image of a person appear to be an image of an adult if — ( a ) the impression convey by the image be that the person show be age 18 or over , or ( b ) the predominant impression convey by the image be that the person show be age 18 or over ( even if some of the physical characteristic show be those of a person under 18 ) . ( 6 ) an act or thing be " sexual " if a reasonable person would , in all the circumstance but regardless of any person ' s purpose , consider it to be sexual . " ( 2 ) in section 79 ( 5 ) of that Act ( meaning of reference to image of a person ) after " a person " insert " ( except in section 66ad and 66AE ) " . ' — ( Laura Farris . ) this new clause create an offence of create a purport sexual image of an adult , without consent . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : government new clause 62 — sexual activity with a corpse . government new clause 87 — manslaughter : sexual conduct aggravating factor . government new clause 88 — length of terrorism sentence with fix licence period : Northern Ireland . government new clause 89 — review of sentencing : time limit . government new clause 94 — Cuckooing . government new clause 95 — cuckooing : interpretation . government new clause 103 — restrict parental responsibility when sentence for rape of a child . government new clause 104 — report on duty to make prohibit step order and power to repeal . new clause 2 — Removal of parental responsibility for man convict of sexual offence against child — ' ( 1 ) after section 2 ( parental responsibility for child ) of the Children Act 1989 , insert — " 2A Prisoners : suspension of parental responsibility ( 1 ) this section apply where — ( a ) a person ( " A " ) have be find guilty of a serious sexual offence involve or relate to a child or child ; and ( b ) a have parental responsibility for a child or child at the time at which the offence be commit . ( 2 ) a cease to have parental responsibility for all child , for a time specify by the sentencing court or until an application by A to the family court to reinstate parental responsibility have be approve . " ' new clause 7 — Occupation or control of another person ' s residence for criminal purpose " Cuckooing " — " ( 1 ) a person commit an offence if the person occupy or exercise control over the home of another person ( V ) in connection with the commission of a criminal offence or offence use any of the follow method — ( a ) the threat or use of force or other coercive behaviour ; ( b ) abduction , kidnap or false imprisonment ; ( c ) fraud or other deception ; ( d ) the abuse of power or a position of vulnerability ; ( e ) the giving of payment or other benefit to achieve the consent of a person who have control over V . ( 2 ) a person also commit an offence under this section if the person arrange or facilitate the activity set out in subsection ( 1 ) . ( 3 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable — ( a ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed seven year , ( b ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the general limit in a magistrate ' court or a fine ( or both ) . " this new clause make it an offence to exercise control over another person ' s residence for the purpose of criminal activity by mean of coercion , threat or abuse of a position of vulnerability . new clause 8 — offence of enable or profit from prostitution — " ( 1 ) a person or body corporate ( C ) commit an offence if they — ( a ) facilitate , whether online or offline , or ( b ) gain financially from a person ( a ) engage in sexual activity with another person ( b ) in exchange for payment or other benefit , or the promise of payment or other benefit , and the condition in subsection ( 2 ) be meet . ( 2 ) the condition be — ( a ) that C know or ought to know that A be engage in , or intend to engage in , sexual activity for payment or other benefit ; and ( b ) that C be not a dependent child of A . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) " sexual activity " — ( i ) mean any act which a reasonable person would , in all the circumstance but regardless of any person ' s purpose , consider to be sexual , ( ii ) require A and b to be in each other ' s presence , ( b ) " Facilitates " include , but be not limit to , cause or allow to be display or publish , include digitally , any advertisement in respect of sexual activity involve A . ( 4 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 12 month or a fine not exceed the statutory maximum or both ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 10 year . " this new clause would make it an offence to facilitate or profit from the prostitution of another person . new clause 9 — one - punch manslaughter — " ( 1 ) a person ( p ) be guilty of an offence where they cause the death of another person ( b ) as a result of a single punch in the circumstance describe in subsection ( 2 ) . ( 2 ) the circumstance refer to in subsection ( 1 ) be — ( a ) p administer a single punch to the head or neck of b ; ( b ) there be significant risk that the punch would cause serious physical harm to b ; ( c ) p be or ought to have be aware of the risk mention in paragraph ( b ) ; ( d ) p do not administer the punch refer to in paragraph ( a ) in self - defence ; and ( e ) b ' s death be cause by — ( i ) the impact of the punch , or ( ii ) further impact or injury result from the single punch . ( 3 ) in this section " serious physical harm " mean harm that amount to death or serious personal injury for the purpose of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 . ( 4 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable on conviction on indictment to imprisonment for a minimum of seven year . " this new clause be intend to create a specific offence of " one Punch Manslaughter " , with a minimum sentence of seven year . new clause 12 — control or coercive behaviour by person provide psychotherapy or counselling service — " ( 1 ) a person ( " a " ) commit an offence if — ( a ) a be a person provide or purport to provide psychotherapy or counselling service to another person ( " B " ) , ( b ) a repeatedly or continuously engage in behaviour towards b that be control or coercive , ( c ) the behaviour have a serious effect on B , and ( d ) a know or ought to know that the behaviour will or may have a serious effect on B . ( 2 ) a ' s behaviour have a " serious effect " on b if — ( a ) it cause b to fear , on at least two occasion , that violence will be use against B , or ( b ) it cause b psychological harm which have a substantial adverse effect on B ' s usual day - to - day activity . ( 3 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( d ) a " ought to know " that which a reasonable person in possession of the same information would know . ( 4 ) in proceeding for an offence under this section it be a defence for A to show that — ( a ) in engage in the behaviour in question , a believe that he or she be act in B ' s good interest , and ( b ) the behaviour be in all the circumstance reasonable . ( 5 ) a defence under subsection ( 4 ) require a to have show — ( a ) sufficient evidence of the fact , and ( b ) that the contrary be not prove beyond reasonable doubt . ( 6 ) the defence in subsection ( 4 ) be not available to a in relation to behaviour that cause b to fear that violence will be use against B . ( 7 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable — ( a ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed five year , or a fine , or both ; ( b ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 12 month , or a fine , or both . " new clause 16 — amendment to the Road Traffic Act 1988 — " ( 1 ) the Road Traffic Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in each of the section list below , after " a road or other public place " insert " , or a private place adjacent to a road , " — section 1 ( cause death by dangerous driving ) ; section 1A ( cause serious injury by dangerous driving ) ; section 2 ( dangerous driving ) ; section 2b ( cause death by careless , or inconsiderate , drive ) ; section 2C ( cause serious injury by careless , or inconsiderate , drive ) ; section 3 ( careless , and inconsiderate , drive ) . " this new clause would extend the Road Traffic Act 1988 so that a range of drive offence can be commit in private place adjacent to road as well as on public road or in public place . new clause 18 — definition of unauthorised access to computer program or datum — " in section 17 of the Computer Misuse Act 1990 , at the end of subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( c ) he do not reasonably believe that the person entitle to control access of the kind in question to the program or datum would have consent to that access if he have know about the access and the circumstance of it , include the reason for seek it ; ( d ) he be not empower by an enactment , by a rule of law , or by the order of a court or tribunal to access of the kind in question to the program or datum . " " new clause 19 — defence to charge under the Computer Misuse Act 1990 — " ( 1 ) the Computer Misuse Act 1990 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 1 , after subsection ( 2 ) insert — " ( 2A ) it be a defence to a charge under subsection ( 1 ) to prove that — ( a ) the person ' s action be necessary for the detection or prevention of crime ; or ( b ) the person ' s action be justify as be in the public interest . " ( 3 ) in section 3 , after subsection ( 5 ) insert — " ( 5A ) it be a defence to a charge under subsection ( 1 ) to prove that — ( a ) the person ' s action be necessary for the detection or prevention of crime ; or ( b ) the person ' s action be justify as be in the public interest . " " new clause 24 — definition of exceptional hardship — " in section 35 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 , after subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 4A ) in subsection ( 4 ) ( b ) , the hardship that would be cause by an offender ' s disqualification should be regard as exceptional only if it be significantly great than the hardship that would be experience by a large majority of other driver if disqualification be impose on they . ( 4b ) in assess whether the hardship arise from the offender ' s disqualification would be exceptional a court may take account of — ( a ) any circumstance relate to the offender ' s economic circumstance or location of residence which would make it exceptionally hard for they to access essential service and facility ; ( b ) any hardship that would be incur by the offender ' s family or other who be disabled or who depend on the offender to provide care for they ; and ( c ) any other circumstance which it believe would make the hardship exceptional . " " new clause 25 — offence of possession of guidance on create child sexual abuse content — " ( 1 ) section 69 ( Possession of paedophile manual ) of the Serious Crime Act 2015 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , omit from " to " to the end of the subsection and insert — " possess , create , share or distribute any item that — ( a ) contain advice or guidance about abuse child sexually ; or ( b ) contain advice or guidance about the creation of content which depict the sexual abuse of child . " ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) ( b ) ( ii ) , after " sexually " insert — " or about the creation of content which depict the sexual abuse of child " ( 4 ) in subsection ( 8 ) — ( a ) after " sexually " " insert " ( or " the sexual abuse of child " ) , ( b ) omit " ( but not pseudo - photograph ) " and insert " , include pseudo - photograph " , ( c ) after second " or Northern Ireland " insert — " " creation of content " include use any tool to create visual or audio content ; " , ( d ) at end insert — " " tool " include , but be not limit to , any computer or other digital technology , program , platform or application , include those which utilise artificial intelligence or machine learning . " " this new clause would expand the exist offence of possess guide about abuse child sexually to include guide on create child sexual abuse content , include through the use of artificial intelligence or machine learning . new clause 26 — offence of simulate sexual communication with a child — " ( 1 ) a person commit an offence if they — ( a ) use ; ( b ) design ; ( c ) distribute ; or ( d ) provide access to a tool to simulate sexual communication with a person under 16 . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) a communication be sexual if — ( i ) any part of it relate to sexual activity , or ( ii ) a reasonable person would , in all the circumstance but regardless of any person ' s purpose , consider any part of the communication to be sexual , ( b ) " tool " include , but be not limit to , any computer or other digital technology , program , platform or application , include those which utilise artificial intelligence or machine learning . ( 3 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable to the same penalty as apply to an offence commit under section 15a of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 . " this new clause would create an offence of use , create or share online or digital tool which simulate sexual communication with a child . new clause 28 — complicity in joint enterprise case — " in section 8 ( abettor in misdemeanour ) of the Accessories and Abettors Act 1861 , after " shall " insert " , by make a significant contribution to its commission , " . " this new clause would clarify the definition of " joint enterprise " ( or secondary liability ) , so that an individual must make a " significant contribution " to an offence commit by another to be criminally liable . new clause 29 — human trafficking — " ( 1 ) section 2 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for " arrange or facilitate the travel of " substitute " recruit , transport , transfer , harbour or receive through force , coercion , fraud , deception , the abuse of power or of a position of vulnerability , or the giving or receiving of payment or benefit " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) , for " travel " substitute " matter mention in subsection ( 1 ) or to V be exploit " . ( 4 ) omit subsection ( 3 ) to ( 5 ) . ( 5 ) in paragraph ( 6 ) ( a ) , for " arrange or facilitate take " substitute " matter mention in subsection ( 1 ) take " . ( 6 ) omit paragraph ( 6 ) ( b ) . ( 7 ) in paragraph ( 7 ) ( a ) , for " arrange or facilitate take " substitute " matter mention in subsection ( 1 ) take " . ( 8 ) in paragraph ( 7 ) ( b ) , for the first " the " substitute " any " . " this new clause bring the definition of human trafficking in the Modern Slavery Act 2015 in line with the UN definition , particularly remove the requirement for exploitation to have involve travel . new clause 32 — aggravated offence : hostility towards transgender identity , sexual orientation and disability — " ( 1 ) the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for the first cross - head under Part II , substitute " offence aggravate on the ground of race , religion , disability , sexual orientation or transgender identity : England and Wales " . ( 3 ) in section 28 — ( a ) for the heading , substitute " meaning of " aggravate on the ground of race , religion , disability , sexual orientation or transgender identity " " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) , omit " racially or religiously aggravate " and insert " aggravate on the ground of race , religion , disability , sexual orientation or transgender identity " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , omit from " base on " to the end of sub - subsection ( a ) and insert — — ( i ) the victim ' s membership ( or presume membership ) of a racial group ; ( ii ) the victim ' s membership ( or presume membership ) of a religious group ; ( iii ) a disability ( or presume disability ) of the victim ; ( iv ) the sexual orientation ( or presume sexual orientation ) of the victim ; or ( v ) the victim be ( or be presume to be ) transgender , or " ; ( d ) in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , omit from " hostility towards " to the end of sub - subsection ( b ) and insert — — ( i ) member of a racial group base on their membership of that group ; ( ii ) member of a religious group base on their membership of that group ; ( iii ) person who have a disability or a particular disability ; ( iv ) person who be of a particular sexual orientation ; or ( v ) person who be transgender . " ; ( e ) in subsection ( 2 ) , in the definition of " membership " leave out " racial or religious " and insert " relevant " . ( 4 ) in section 29 — ( a ) for the heading , substitute " assault aggravate on ground of race , religion , disability , sexual orientation or transgender identity " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) , omit " racially or religiously aggravate " and insert " aggravate on the ground of race , religion , disability , sexual orientation or transgender identity " . ( 5 ) in section 30 — ( a ) for the heading , substitute " criminal damage aggravate on the ground of race , religion , disability , sexual orientation or transgender identity " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) , omit " racially or religiously aggravate " and insert " aggravate on the ground of race , religion , disability , sexual orientation or transgender identity " . ( 6 ) in section 31 — ( a ) for the heading , substitute " public order offence aggravate on the ground of race , religion , disability , sexual orientation or transgender identity " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) , omit " racially or religiously aggravate " and insert " aggravate on the ground of race , religion , disability , sexual orientation or transgender identity " . ( 7 ) in section 32 — ( a ) for the heading , substitute " Harassment etc aggravate on the ground of race , religion , disability , sexual orientation or transgender identity " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 1 ) , omit " racially or religiously aggravate " and insert " aggravate on the ground of race , religion , disability , sexual orientation or transgender identity " . " this new clause would include offence motivate by hostility towards an individual ' s disability status , sexual orientation or transgender identity ( or perception thereof ) in those which be aggravate under the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 . new clause 33 — take of dog without lawful authority — " ( 1 ) a person commit an offence if , without lawful authority or reasonable excuse , the person take or detain a dog in England — ( a ) so as to remove it from the lawful control of any person , or ( b ) so as to keep it from the lawful control of a person who be entitle to have lawful control of it . ( 2 ) no offence be commit if the person take or detain the dog be connect with any of the follow — ( a ) any person entitle to have lawful control of it ; ( b ) where it be remove from the lawful control of a person , that person . ( 3 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the maximum summary term for either - way offence or a fine ( or both ) ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 5 year or a fine ( or both ) . ( 4 ) in this section — " connected person " : a person be connect with another person if — ( a ) they be married to each other , ( b ) they be civil partner of each other , ( c ) one be the parent of the other , or ( d ) they be sibling ( whether of the full blood or the half blood ) ; " detain " : reference to a person detain a dog include the person — ( a ) induce it to remain with the person or anyone else , or ( b ) cause it to be detain ; " maximum summary term for either - way offence " , with reference to imprisonment for an offence , mean — ( a ) if the offence be commit before the time when paragraph 24 ( 2 ) of Schedule 22 to the Sentencing Act 2020 come into force , 6 month ; ( b ) if the offence be commit after that time , 12 month ; " take " : reference to a person take a dog include the person — ( a ) cause or induce it to accompany the person or anyone else , or ( b ) cause it to be take . " this new clause make provision for the creation of an offence of take a dog from the lawful control of another person . new clause 35 — offence of fail to remain at the scene of a traffic collision — " in section 170 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 , after subsection ( 4 ) insert — " ( 4A ) a person guilty of an offence under subsection ( 4 ) be liable — ( a ) if a person other than the driver of the vehicle suffer a fatal injury — ( i ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 14 year ; ( b if a person other than the driver of the vehicle suffer a serious non - fatal injury — ( i ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 10 year or a fine not exceed £ 20 , 000 or both ; ( ii ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 10 year ; ( c ) in any other case — ( i ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 10 year or a fine not exceed £ 20 , 000 or both ; ( ii ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 10 year . " " this new clause would expand the exist offence of fail to stop after a road collision to create more serious penalty for fail to stop after collision which result in death or serious injury . new clause 36 — time to report road collision — " in section 170 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 , omit subsection ( 6 ) and insert — " ( 6 ) in comply with a duty under this section to report an accident or to produce such a certificate of insurance or other evidence , as be mention in section 165 ( 2 ) ( a ) of this Act , it be an offence for a driver — ( a ) not to do so at a police station or to a constable as soon as be reasonably practicable , and ( b ) not to do so within two hour of the occurrence of the accident in relation to report an accident , or within twenty - four hour of the occurrence of the accident in relation to the production of a certificate of insurance or other evidence . " " this new clause would amend the Road Traffic Act 1988 to reduce the time within which a driver must report a road collision in which they be involve from twenty - four hour to two hour , and make it an offence not to report an accident . new clause 38 — senior manager liability for neglect in relation to offence commit by body corporate and partnership — " ( 1 ) where an organisation commit an offence under section 16 , a person ( " S " ) also commit an offence if — ( a ) s be a senior manager of the same body corporate or partnership at the time the offence be commit under section 16 ; and ( b ) S fail to prevent the offence from be commit , or be negligent such that an offence be commit . ( 2 ) it be a defence for S to prove that they take all reasonable step to prevent the offence be commit . ( 3 ) in this section , " body corporate " , " partnership " and " senior manager " have the meaning give in section 16 . ( 4 ) a person who commit an offence under subsection ( 1 ) be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term of 12 month ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term of 5 year and an unlimited fine . " new clause 43 — offence of create or share mislead content — " ( 1 ) a person ( " p " ) commit an offence if they — ( a ) create , use any computer or other digital technology , program , platform or application , include those which utilise artificial intelligence or machine learning ; or ( b ) share , distribute , or otherwise provide access to , visual or audio content which show or represent , or appear to show or represent , another person ( " r " ) , where condition A , b and C be meet . ( 2 ) Condition A be that the word , action , belief or behaviour show or represent in the content have be artificially create or manipulate . ( 3 ) condition B be that the content have be create or share for the purpose of — ( a ) mislead a person view or hear the content as to r ' s real word , action , belief or behaviour ; ( b ) cause offence , alarm , distress or humiliation to — ( i ) r ; or ( ii ) any other person ; or ( c ) influence the vote intention or activity of another person . ( 4 ) condition C be that r have not consent to the creation or sharing of the content . ( 5 ) a person who commit an offence under subsection ( 1 ) be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the general limit in a magistrate ' court or a fine ( or both ) ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed two year . " new clause 44 — sexual exploitation of an adult — " ( 1 ) the Sexual Offences Act 2003 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) section 52 be amend as follow — ( a ) in the title for " cause or incite prostitution " substitute " sexual exploitation " , and ( b ) in paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) for " cause or incite another person to become a prostitute " substitute " sexually exploit another person " . ( 3 ) section 53 be amend as follow — ( a ) in the title for " prostitution " substitute " sexual exploitation " , and ( b ) in paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) for " prostitution " substitute " sexual exploitation " . ( 4 ) section 54 be amend as follow — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) for " section 51a , 52 , 53 and 53a " substitute " section 53a " , and ( b ) at end insert — " ( 4 ) in section 52 and 53 " sexual exploitation " mean conduct by which a person manipulate , deceive , coerce or control another person to undertake sexual activity . " . " an amendment to the Sexual Offences Act 2003 , specifically in section 52 and 53 , replace " prostitution for gain ' " with " sexual exploitation of an adult " . new clause 45 — loitering and soliciting : repeal — " section 1 of the Street Offences Act 1959 ( loitering or solicit for purpose of prostitution ) be repeal . " an amendment that repeal solicit and loitering as an offence . new clause 46 — Power of Secretary of State to disregard conviction or caution : loitering or solicit for purpose of prostitution — ' ( 1 ) section 92 of the Street Offences Act 1959 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) for subsection ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) a person who have be convict of , or caution for , an offence in circumstance where — ( a ) the conduct constitute the offence be sexual activity between person of the same sex , or ( b ) the offence be commit under Section 1 of the Street Offences Act 1959 , may apply to the Secretary of State for the conviction or caution to become a disregarded conviction or caution . " ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) after first " caution " insert " receive in the circumstance set out in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) " . ' a new clause that allow a process allow the Secretary of State to disregard conviction and caution receive under section 1 of the Street Offences Act 1959 . new clause 47 — groom as an aggravating factor — " ( 1 ) after section 72 of the Sentencing Code ( supply of psychoactive substance in certain circumstance ) insert — " 72a Grooming ( 1 ) this section apply where a court be consider the seriousness of an offence which be aggravate by groom . ( 2 ) the court — ( a ) must treat the fact that the offence be aggravate by groom as an aggravating factor , and ( b ) must state in open court that the offence be so aggravated . " " groom to be see as an aggravating factor in certain case where the victim be an adult . new clause 48 — aggravate factor relevant to offence of murder : strangulation — " ( 1 ) schedule 21 to the Sentencing Code ( determination of minimum term in relation to mandatory life sentence for murder etc ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) after paragraph 9 ( g ) insert — " ( h ) the fact that the offender strangle the victim as part of the homicide . " " an amendment to instate strangulation as an aggravating factor in murder case . new clause 49 — reasonable force in domestic abuse case — " ( 1 ) section 76 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 ( reasonable force for purpose of self - defence etc . ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 5A ) after " in a householder case " insert " or a domestic abuse case " . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 6 ) after " in a case other than a householder case " insert " or a domestic abuse case " . ( 4 ) after subsection ( 8F ) insert — " ( 8 g ) for the purpose of this section " a domestic abuse case " be a case where — ( a ) the defence concern be the common law defence of self - defence , ( b ) d be , or have be , a victim of domestic abuse , and ( c ) the force concern be force use by D against the person who have perpetrate the abusive behaviour refer to in paragraph ( b ) . ( 8h ) subsection ( 8 g ) ( b ) will only be establish if the behaviour concern be , or be part of , a history of conduct which constitute domestic abuse as define in section 1 and 2 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , include but not limit to conduct which constitute the offence of control or coercive behaviour in an intimate or family relationship as define in section 76 of the Serious Crime Act 2015 ( control or coercive behaviour in an intimate or family relationship ) . " ( 5 ) in subsection ( 9 ) after " householder case " insert " and domestic abuse case " . " statutory defence for victim of domestic abuse who may have be coerce into commit certain crime or drive to use force against their abuser , as a result of be a victim of domestic abuse . new clause 50 — defence for victim of domestic abuse who commit an offence — " ( 1 ) a person be not guilty of an offence if — ( a ) the person be age 18 or over when the person do the act which constitute the offence , ( b ) the person do that act because the person be compel to do it , ( c ) the compulsion be attributable to their be a victim of domestic abuse , and ( d ) a reasonable person in the same situation as the person and have the person ' s relevant characteristic would have no realistic alternative to do that act . ( 2 ) a person may be compel to do something by another person or by the person ' s circumstance . ( 3 ) compulsion be attributable to domestic abuse only if — ( a ) it be , or be part of , conduct which constitute domestic abuse as define in section 1 and 2 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , include but not limit to conduct which constitute the offence of control or coercive behaviour in an intimate or family relationship as define in section 76 of the Serious Crime Act 2015 , or ( b ) it be a direct consequence of a person be , or have be , a victim of such abuse . ( 4 ) a person be not guilty of an offence if — ( a ) the person be under the age of 18 when the person do the act which constitute the offence , ( b ) the person do that act as a direct consequence of the person be , or have be , a victim of domestic abuse as define at subsection ( 3 ) ( a ) above , and ( c ) a reasonable person in the same situation as the person and have the person ' s relevant characteristic would do that act . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section " relevant characteristic " mean age , sex , any physical or mental illness or disability and any experience of domestic abuse . ( 6 ) in this section reference to an act include an omission . ( 7 ) subsection ( 1 ) and ( 4 ) do not apply to an offence list in Schedule [ offence to which the defence for victim of domestic abuse who commit an offence do not apply ] . ( 8 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend Schedule [ offence to which the defence for victim of domestic abuse who commit an offence do not apply ] . ( 9 ) the Secretary of State must make arrangement for monitoring of the type of offence for which victim of domestic abuse be prosecute and use this evidence to inform an annual review of the offence list in Schedule [ offence to which the defence for victim of domestic abuse who commit an offence do not apply ] and any amendment to Schedule [ offence to which the defence for victim of domestic abuse who commit an offence do not apply ] . " statutory defence for victim of domestic abuse who may have be coerce into commit certain crime as a result of be a victim of domestic abuse . new clause 55 — offence of child criminal exploitation — " ( 1 ) a person ( " p " ) commit an offence if they — ( a ) recruit or attempt to recruit , or ( b ) ask or compel another person to recruit or attempt to recruit , a child ( " C " ) for the purpose of c ' s involvement in criminal activity . ( 2 ) an offence be commit under subsection ( 1 ) regardless of whether C — ( a ) engage in criminal activity , or ( b ) be prosecute for or find guilty of a criminal offence . ( 3 ) it be not a defence to a charge under subsection ( 1 ) to prove that p do not know that C be a child . ( 4 ) a person guilty of an offence under this section be liable — ( a ) if the offence for which c be , or be attempt to be , recruit be murder , to imprisonment for life , ( b ) if C be , or be attempt to be , recruit for any other offence , to the penalty to which a person guilty of that offence would be liable . ( 5 ) for the purpose of this section — " child " mean a person under the age of 18 ; " criminal activity " mean any activity or conduct which constitute a criminal offence ; to " recruit " include by direction , inducement , incitement , coercion or compulsion . " new clause 57 — offence of cause death or serious injury by dangerous , careless or inconsiderate cycling — " ( 1 ) the Road Traffic Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) before section 28 ( dangerous cycling ) insert — " 27a cause death by dangerous cycling a person who cause the death of another person by ride a cycle dangerously ( as define in section 28 ) on a road or other public place be guilty of an offence . 27b cause serious injury by dangerous cycling ( 1 ) a person who cause serious injury to another person by ride a cycle dangerously ( as define in section 28 ) on a road or other public place be guilty of an offence . ( 2 ) in this section " serious injury mean — ( a ) in England and Wales , physical harm which amount to grievous bodily harm for the purpose of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 , and ( b ) in Scotland , severe physical injury . 27C cause death by careless or inconsiderate cycling a person who cause the death of another person by ride a cycle on a road or other public place without due care and attention , or without reasonable consideration for other person use the road or place , be guilty of an offence . " ( 3 ) in section 28 ( dangerous cycling ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 4 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) , what would be expect of a competent and careful cyclist include that their cycle be equip and maintain in accordance with regulation make under section 81 of this Act . " ( 4 ) after section 32 ( electrically assist pedal cycle ) , insert — " 32a Interpretation of section 27a to 32 ( 1 ) for the purpose of section 27a to 32 of this Act , " a cycle " include but be not limit to — ( a ) a pedal cycle , ( b ) an electrically assist pedal cycle , and ( c ) a mechanically propel personal transporter , include — ( i ) an electric scooter , ( ii ) a self - balance personal transporter ( include a self - balance scooter , self - balance board or electric unicycle ) , and ( iii ) any other mechanically propel personal transporter provide for by the Secretary of State in regulation make under this section . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) , mechanically propel personal transporter be to be define in regulation make by the Secretary of State under this section . " ( 5 ) the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 6 ) in the table in Part 1 of Schedule 2 , after the row begin " RTA section 27 " insert in column 1 to 4 — " RTA Section 27a cause death by dangerous cycling . on indictment . 14 year . RTA Section 27b cause serious injury by dangerous cycling . ( a ) summarily . ( b ) on indictment . ( a ) 12 month or the statutory maximum or both . ( b ) 5 year of a fine or both . RTA Section 27c cause death by careless of inconsiderate cycling . ( a ) summarily . ( b ) on indictment . ( a ) 12 month ( in England and Wales ) or 6 month ( in Scotland ) or the statutory maximum or both . ( b ) 5 year or a fine or both . " " new clause 59 — ban on " ninja sword " — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must exercise their power under section 141 ( 2 ) of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 to amend the Schedule to the Criminal Justice Act 1988 ( Offensive Weapons ) Order 1988 as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 1 , after sub - paragraph ( t ) insert — " ( u ) the weapon sometimes know as a " ninja sword " , " katana " or " ninjato " , be a single - edged straight blade of up to 60 cm in length with a long hilt or guard " . ( 3 ) regulation lay under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) be lay within six month of the date of Royal Assent to this Act , ( b ) be lay follow consultation on the definition of possession for sporting use and possession of antique , and ( c ) include , subject to the result of the consultation under subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) , exemption for sporting use and for possession of antique . " new clause 60 — senior manager liability for illegal sale of bladed article — " ( 1 ) a person " p " commit an offence where — ( a ) p be a senior manager of an internet service " C " , ( b ) c commit an offence under — ( i ) section 141A or 141b of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 ; or ( ii ) section 38 to 42 of the Offensive Weapons Act 2019 , and ( c ) p have fail to take all reasonable step to prevent that offence be commit by C . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section — ( a ) " internet service " have the meaning give in section 228 of the Online Safety Act 2023 ; ( b ) " senior manager " mean an individual who play a significant role in — ( i ) the making of decision about how C ' s relevant activity be to be manage or organise , or ( ii ) the actual managing or organising of c ' s relevant activity . ( 3 ) where p be charge with an offence under this section , it be a defence for p to show that p be a senior manager of C for such a short time during the relevant period that p could not reasonably have be expect to take step to prevent that offence be commit by C . ( 4 ) where p be guilty of an offence under this section , p be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the general limit in a magistrate ' court or a fine ( or both ) ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed five year or a fine ( or both ) . " new clause 61 — Classification of Fenethylline as a Class A drug — " in Schedule 2 ( Controlled Drugs ) to the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 , after " etryptamine " insert " Fenethylline " . " this new clause would add Fenethylline – also know by the brand name Captagon , Biocapton , and Fitton – to the list of Class A drug under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 . new clause 91 — offence of fail to meet pollution performance commitment level — " ( 1 ) a water or water and sewerage company ( " C " ) commit an offence where C have — ( a ) fail to meet its pollution performance commitment level for three consecutive year ; or ( b ) experience an increase in — ( i ) total pollution incident per 10 , 000km2 , or ( ii ) serious pollution incident for three consecutive year . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section — " water or water and sewerage company " mean company which be responsible for the provision of water , or water and sewerage , service and which be regulate by Ofwat and the Environment Agency ; " pollution performance commitment level " mean the level of performance on pollution that the company have commit to deliver , and which be report against by Ofwat in its annual water company performance report ; " total pollution incident per 10 , 000km2 " and " serious pollution incident " mean the relevant figure under those heading report by the Environment Agency in its annual environmental performance report . ( 3 ) if guilty of an offence under this section , C be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to a fine ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to a fine . " new clause 92 — senior manager liability for failure to meet pollution performance commitment level — " ( 1 ) a person ( " p " ) commit an offence where — ( a ) p be a senior manager of a water or water and sewerage company ( " C " ) , ( b ) c commit an offence under section [ offence of fail to meet pollution performance commitment level ] , and ( c ) p have fail to take all reasonable step to prevent that offence be commit by C . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section — " senior manager " mean an individual who play a significant role in — ( a ) the making of decision about how C ' s relevant activity be to be manage or organise , or ( b ) the actual managing or organising of c ' s relevant activity ; " water or water and sewerage company " have the meaning give in section [ offence of fail to meet pollution performance commitment level ] . ( 3 ) where p be charge with an offence under this section , it be a defence for p to show that p be a senior manager of C for such a short time during the relevant period that p could not reasonably have be expect to take step to prevent that offence be commit by C . ( 4 ) where p be guilty of an offence under this section , p be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to a fine ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to a fine . " new clause 93 — compensation order : loss suffer by victim — " in the Sentencing Act 2020 after section 138 insert — " 138A Loss suffer by victim of offence of coercive and control behaviour ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) apply where the court be determine whether to make a compensation order against an offender in respect of an offence under section 76 of the Serious Crime Act 2015 ( control or coercive behaviour in an intimate or family relationship ) . ( 2 ) the court must have particular regard to the desirability of compensate the victim of the offence for injury , loss or damage , include economic loss , result from the offence . " " Government new schedule 4 — cuckooing : specify offence . new schedule 1 — offence to which the defence for victim of domestic abuse who commit an offence do not apply — " Schedule Common Law Offences 1 false imprisonment . 2 kidnapping . 3 Manslaughter . 4 murder . 5 pervert the course of justice . 6 Piracy . offence against the Person Act 1861 ( c . 100 ) 7 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 — • section 4 ( solicit murder ) • section 16 ( threat to kill ) • section 18 ( wound with intent to cause grievous bodily harm ) • section 20 ( malicious wounding ) • section 21 ( attempt to choke , suffocate or strangle in order to commit or assist in commit an indictable offence ) • section 22 ( use drug etc to commit or assist in the committing of an indictable offence ) • section 23 ( maliciously administer poison etc so as to endanger life or inflict grievous bodily harm ) • section 27 ( abandon child ) • section 28 ( cause bodily injury by explosive ) • section 29 ( use explosive with intent to do grievous bodily harm ) • section 30 ( place explosive with intent to do bodily injury ) • section 31 ( set spring gun etc with intent to do grievous bodily harm ) • section 32 ( endanger safety of railway passenger ) • section 35 ( injure person by furious driving ) • section 37 ( assault officer preserve wreck ) • section 38 ( assault with intent to resist arrest ) . explosive Substances Act 1883 ( c . 3 ) 8 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Explosive Substances Act 1883 — • section 2 ( cause explosion likely to endanger life or property ) • section 3 ( attempt to cause explosion , or make or keep explosive with intent to endanger life or property ) • section 4 ( making or possession of explosive under suspicious circumstance ) . Infant Life ( Preservation ) Act 1929 ( c . 34 ) 9 an offence under section 1 of the Infant Life ( Preservation ) Act 1929 ( child destruction ) . child and Young Persons Act 1933 ( c . 12 ) 10 an offence under section 1 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933 ( cruelty to child ) . Public Order Act 1936 ( 1 Edw . 8 & 1 Geo . 6 c . 6 ) 11 an offence under section 2 of the Public Order Act 1936 ( control etc of quasi - military organisation ) . Infanticide Act 1938 ( c . 36 ) 12 an offence under section 1 of the Infanticide Act 1938 ( infanticide ) . Firearms Act 1968 ( c . 27 ) 13 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Firearms Act 1968 — • section 5 ( possession of prohibit firearm ) • section 16 ( possession of firearm with intent to endanger life ) • section 16a ( possession of firearm with intent to cause fear of violence ) • section 17 ( 1 ) ( use of firearm to resist arrest ) • section 17 ( 2 ) ( possession of firearm at time of commit or be arrest for specified offence ) • section 18 ( carry firearm with criminal intent ) . Theft Act 1968 ( c . 60 ) 14 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Theft Act 1968 — • section 8 ( robbery or assault with intent to rob ) • section 9 ( burglary ) , where the offence be commit with intent to inflict grievous bodily harm on a person , or to do unlawful damage to a building or anything in it • section 10 ( aggravate burglary ) • section 12a ( aggravate vehicle - taking ) , where the offence involve an accident which cause the death of any person • section 21 ( blackmail ) . Criminal Damage Act 1971 ( c . 48 ) 15 the following offence under the Criminal Damage Act 1971 — • an offence of arson under section 1 • an offence under section 1 ( 2 ) ( destroy or damaging property ) other than an offence of arson . Immigration Act 1971 ( c . 77 ) 16 an offence under section 25 of the Immigration Act 1971 ( assist unlawful immigration to member state ) . Customs and Excise Management Act 1979 ( c . 2 ) 17 an offence under section 170 of the Customs and Excise Management Act 1979 ( penalty for fraudulent evasion of duty etc ) in relation to good prohibit to be import under section 42 of the Customs Consolidation Act 1876 ( indecent or obscene article ) . take of Hostages Act 1982 ( c . 28 ) 18 an offence under section 1 of the Taking of Hostages Act 1982 ( hostage - taking ) . Aviation Security Act 1982 ( c . 36 ) 19 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Aviation Security Act 1982 — • section 1 ( hijacking ) • section 2 ( destroy , damage or endanger safety of aircraft ) • section 3 ( other act endanger or likely to endanger safety of aircraft ) • section 4 ( offence in relation to certain dangerous article ) . Mental Health Act 1983 ( c . 20 ) 20 an offence under section 127 of the Mental Health Act 1983 ( ill - treatment of patient ) . Child Abduction Act 1984 ( c . 37 ) 21 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Child Abduction Act 1984 — • section 1 ( abduction of child by parent etc ) • section 2 ( abduction of child by other person ) . Public Order Act 1986 ( c . 64 ) 22 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Public Order Act 1986 — • section 1 ( riot ) • section 2 ( violent disorder ) . Criminal Justice Act 1988 ( c . 33 ) 23 an offence under section 134 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 ( torture ) . Road Traffic Act 1988 ( c . 52 ) 24 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Road Traffic Act 1988 — • section 1 ( cause death by dangerous driving ) • section 3A ( cause death by careless driving when under the influence of drink or drug ) . Aviation and Maritime Security Act 1990 ( c . 31 ) 25 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Aviation and Maritime Security Act 1990 — • section 1 ( endanger safety at aerodrome ) • section 9 ( hijacking of ship ) • section 10 ( seize or exercise control of fix platform ) • section 11 ( destroy fix platform or endanger their safety ) • section 12 ( other act endanger or likely to endanger safe navigation ) • section 13 ( offence involve threat ) . Channel Tunnel ( Security ) Order 1994 ( s . I . 1994 / 570 ) 26 an offence under Part 2 of the Channel Tunnel ( Security ) Order 1994 ( SI 1994 / 570 ) ( offence relate to Channel Tunnel train and the tunnel system ) . protection from Harassment Act 1997 ( c . 40 ) 27 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 — • section 4 ( put people in fear of violence ) • section 4A ( stalk involve fear of violence or serious alarm or distress ) . crime and Disorder Act 1998 ( c . 37 ) 28 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 — • section 29 ( racially or religiously aggravate assault ) • section 31 ( 1 ) ( a ) or ( b ) ( racially or religiously aggravate offence under section 4 or 4A of the Public Order Act 1986 ) . Terrorism Act 2000 ( c . 11 ) 29 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Terrorism Act 2000 — • section 54 ( weapon training ) • section 56 ( direct terrorist organisation ) • section 57 ( possession of article for terrorist purpose ) • section 59 ( incite terrorism overseas ) . International Criminal Court Act 2001 ( c . 17 ) 30 an offence under any of the follow provision of the International Criminal Court Act 2001 — • section 51 ( genocide , crime against humanity and war crime ) • section 52 ( ancillary conduct ) . Anti - terrorism , Crime and Security Act 2001 ( c . 24 ) 31 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Anti - terrorism , Crime and Security Act 2001 — • section 47 ( use of nuclear weapon ) • section 50 ( assist or induce certain weapon - relate act overseas ) • section 113 ( use of noxious substance or thing to cause harm or intimidate ) . female Genital Mutilation Act 2003 ( c . 31 ) 32 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Female Genital Mutilation Act 2003 — • section 1 ( female genital mutilation ) • section 2 ( assist a girl to mutilate her own genitalia ) • section 3 ( assist a non - UK person to mutilate overseas a girl ' s genitalia ) . Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( c . 42 ) 33 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 — • section 1 ( rape ) • section 2 ( assault by penetration ) • section 3 ( sexual assault ) • section 4 ( cause person to engage in sexual activity without consent ) • section 5 ( rape of child under 13 ) • section 6 ( assault of child under 13 by penetration ) • section 7 ( sexual assault of child under 13 ) • section 8 ( cause or incite child under 13 to engage in sexual activity ) • section 9 ( sexual activity with a child ) • section 10 ( cause or incite a child to engage in sexual activity ) • section 13 ( child sex offence commit by child or young person ) • section 14 ( arrange or facilitate commission of child sex offence ) • section 15 ( meet a child follow sexual grooming ) • section 16 ( abuse of position of trust : sexual activity with a child ) • section 17 ( abuse of position of trust : cause or incite a child to engage in sexual activity ) • section 18 ( abuse of position of trust : sexual activity in presence of child ) • section 19 ( abuse of position of trust : cause a child to watch a sexual act ) • section 25 ( sexual activity with a child family member ) • section 26 ( incite a child family member to engage in sexual activity ) • section 30 ( sexual activity with a person with a mental disorder impede choice ) • section 31 ( cause or incite a person with a mental disorder impede choice to engage in sexual activity ) • section 32 ( engage in sexual activity in the presence of a person with a mental disorder impede choice ) • section 33 ( cause a person with a mental disorder impede choice to watch a sexual act ) • section 34 ( inducement , threat or deception to procure sexual activity with a person with a mental disorder ) • section 35 ( cause a person with a mental disorder to engage in or agree to engage in sexual activity by inducement , threat or deception ) • section 36 ( engage in sexual activity in the presence , procure by inducement , threat or deception , of a person with a mental disorder ) • section 37 ( cause a person with a mental disorder to watch a sexual act by inducement , threat or deception ) • section 38 ( care worker : sexual activity with a person with a mental disorder ) • section 39 ( care worker : cause or incite sexual activity ) • section 40 ( care worker : sexual activity in the presence of a person with a mental disorder ) • section 41 ( care worker : cause a person with a mental disorder to watch a sexual act ) • section 47 ( pay for sexual service of a child ) • section 48 ( cause or incite child prostitution or pornography ) • section 49 ( control a child prostitute or a child involve in pornography • section 50 ( arrange or facilitate child prostitution or pornography ) • section 61 ( administer a substance with intent ) • section 62 ( commit offence with intent to commit sexual offence ) • section 63 ( trespass with intent to commit sexual offence ) • section 64 ( sex with an adult relative : penetration ) • section 65 ( sex with an adult relative : consent to penetration ) • section 66 ( exposure ) • section 67 ( voyeurism ) • section 70 ( sexual penetration of a corpse ) . Domestic Violence , Crime and Victims Act 2004 ( c . 28 ) 34 an offence under section 5 of the Domestic Violence , Crime and Victims Act 2004 ( cause or allow a child or vulnerable adult to die or suffer serious physical harm ) . Terrorism Act 2006 ( c . 11 ) 35 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Terrorism Act 2006 — • section 5 ( preparation of terrorist act ) • section 6 ( training for terrorism ) • section 9 ( making or possession of radioactive device or material ) • section 10 ( use of radioactive device or material for terrorist purpose ) • section 11 ( terrorist threat relate to radioactive device etc ) . Modern Slavery Act 2015 ( c . 30 ) 36 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 — • section 1 ( slavery , servitude and forced or compulsory labour ) • section 2 ( human trafficking ) . ancillary offence 37 ( 1 ) an offence of attempt or conspire to commit an offence list in this Schedule . ( 2 ) an offence commit by aid , abet , counsel or procure an offence list in this Schedule . ( 3 ) an offence under Part 2 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 ( encourage or assist ) where the offence ( or one of the offence ) which the person in question intend or believe would be commit be an offence list in this Schedule . " amendment 69 , in clause 9 , page 7 , line 36 , at end insert — " ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , within two year of the date of Royal Assent to this Act , publish a report on conviction for the offence introduce by this section . ( 4 ) in prepare the report under subsection ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must consult with whichever individual or body the Secretary of State see fit . ( 5 ) the report under subsection ( 3 ) must include — ( a ) the number of conviction for offence under section 139AB of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 in each year for which this section have be in force ; ( b ) the type of relevant weapon involve in such offence ; ( c ) detail of how the individual come into the possession of the relevant weapon , include detail of whether any law relate to the sale or delivery of bladed or other offensive article be breach ; and ( d ) recommendation on whether , in light of the finding of the report , further review be need on exist law and process relate to the sale or delivery of bladed or other offensive article . " Amendment 32 , in clause 13 , page 10 , line 15 , after " administering " insert " or attempt to administer " . amendment 33 , page 10 , line 19 , after " administer " insert " or attempt to administer " . Amendment 34 , page 10 , line 20 , after " administration " insert " or attempt administration " . amendment 35 , page 10 , line 23 , after " cause " insert " or attempt to cause " . amendment 36 , page 10 , line 25 , after " administration " insert " attempt administration " . amendment 37 , page 10 , line 26 , leave out from " life " to end of line 27 and insert " , inflict grievous bodily harm on they , or cause they annoyance or humiliation , and " . government amendment 142 and 143 . amendment 38 , page 11 , line 3 , leave out from " administer " to end of line 4 and insert " or attempt to administer etc harmful substance with intent to injure , aggrieve , annoy or humiliate " . amendment 39 , page 11 , line 6 , after " administer " insert " or attempt to administer " . amendment 40 , page 11 , line 7 , after " cause " insert " or attempt to cause " . amendment 41 , page 11 , line 9 , leave out from " aggrieve " to end of line 10 and insert " , annoy or humiliate the other person , or for the purpose of the entertainment of the person or any other person . " government amendment 144 to 150 Amendment 57 , in clause 28 , page 34 , leave out line 34 and 35 and insert — " ( 4 ) the court may , as part of an order under subsection ( 2 ) , add condition about the use of reasonable force , if necessary and proportionate , to give effect to an order under subsection ( 2 ) . ( 4A ) Conditions refer to in subsection ( 4 ) may only be add if the court be satisfied that there be sufficient , properly train and equip staff available to give effect to the order , and the condition add to it , safely . " this amendment would ensure the court satisfy itself that staff would not be put at risk when order a defendant to attend sentencing . government amendment 151 to 153 Amendment 58 , in clause 33 , page 39 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) the Secretary of State may not issue a warrant under subsection ( 2 ) where — ( a ) the prisoner have less than 180 day to serve of the requisite custodial period ; ( b ) the prisoner be serve an indeterminate sentence of imprisonment or detention for public protection ; or ( c ) the Secretary of State be satisfied that the prisoner should continue to be detain in a domestic prison for the purpose of — ( i ) receive instruction or training which can not reasonably be provide in a prison in the foreign country , or ( ii ) participate in any proceeding before any court , tribunal or inquiry where it be not reasonably practicable for the participation or to take place in a prison in the foreign country . " the amendment would introduce exclusion on the type of prisoner that could be issue with a warrant to serve their sentence in a foreign country . it exclude people with less than 6 month to serve , those serve indeterminate sentence for public protection and those who need to be detain in the UK for education / training purpose or for legal proceeding ( e . g . parole ) . amendment 59 , in clause 35 , page 40 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( c ) report to the Secretary of State on any breach of the arrangement make between the United Kingdom and a foreign country . " this amendment would require the Controller to make a report to the Secretary of State on any breach of the arrangement between the foreign country and the UK . Amendment 60 , page 41 , line 3 , leave out " may " and insert " must " . this amendment would ensure that the prison inspectorate must conduct the duty specify in new section 5A ( 5D ) of the Prisons Act 1952 and ensure its consistency with the legislative basis for its role in England and Wales . amendment 61 , page 41 , line 4 , after " prison " insert " and escort arrangement " . this amendment would ensure that HM Inspectorate of Prisons can inspect escort arrangement under which prisoner be transfer to foreign prison . this would bring the legislation into line with inspectorate ' s power in relation to UK prison and escort arrangement under amendment to the Prisons Act make by the Immigration , Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 ( s . 46 ) and ensure scrutiny of an area of evidence risk . amendment 62 , page 41 , line 8 , at end insert — " ( 4 ) in section 1 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 , after subsection 2 ( c ) insert — " ( d ) the decease die while in custody or otherwise in state detention in a foreign country pursuant to a warrant issue by the Secretary of State under section 26 of the Criminal Justice Act 2024 ( warrant for transfer of prisoner to or from foreign prison ) . " " this amendment would clarify how the government intend to apply its obligation under article 2 ( right to life ) of the Human Rights Act , through ensure the duty of the coroner also apply to any death involve a prisoner subject to a transfer agreement with a foreign country . amendment 56 , in schedule 2 , page 105 , line 4 , at end insert — " 66ad fake intimate photograph or film use digital technology ( 1 ) a person ( a ) commit an offence if a intentionally create or design use computer graphic or any other digital technology an image or film which appear to be a photograph or film of another person ( b ) in an intimate state for the purpose of — ( a ) sexual gratification , whether of themselves or of another person ; ( b ) cause alarm , distress or humiliation to B or any other person ; or ( c ) commit an offence under section 66a or 66B of the Sexual Offence Act 2003 . ( 2 ) it be a defence to a charge under subsection ( 1 ) to prove that — ( a ) a have a reasonable excuse for create or design the image or film , or ( b ) that B consent to its creation . ( 3 ) a person who commit an offence under subsection ( 1 ) be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the general limit in a magistrate ' court or a fine ( or both ) ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed two year . " this amendment would make the creation of " deepfake " intimate image an offence . amendment 160 , page 110 , line 14 , at end insert — " Online Safety Act 2023 21 in Schedule 7 to the Online Safety Act 2023 ( priority offence ) , after paragraph 31 insert — " Non - consensual intimate photograph or film 31a an offence under any of the follow provision of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 — ( a ) section 66a ( send etc photograph or film of genital ) ; ( b ) section 66aa ( take or record intimate photograph or film ) ; ( c ) section 66ac ( instal etc equipment to enable take or recording of intimate photograph or film ) ; ( d ) section 66B ( share or threaten to share intimate photograph or film ) . " " this amendment make non - consensual intimate photograph and film " priority illegal content " and so subject to duty to prevent individual from encounter such content and to minimise the length of time such content be present ( as be currently the case for child sexual exploitation and abuse content ) . government amendment 161 . government amendment 163 . government amendment 154 to 157 . government amendment 70 . government amendment 158 and 159 . I have hear what be say by the hon . member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) and make a careful note . the fact that this debate be split over two day may have contribute to that , but I have listen carefully and will take that point away . it be an honour , again , to open this debate and bring this important Bill back to the House on Report . its focus be on counter develop criminal threat , intercept serious organise crime , and protect vulnerable victim . I thank member across the House for their constructive engagement on the Bill , as well as the police , lead academic , practise lawyer and campaign group , some of whom appear before we in Committee . they have all contribute to the Bill ' s development . there be many topic to discuss today , and I look forward to hear the view of member . the Government be bring forward a number of amendment that we believe be appropriate and necessary to punish offender and enhance the protection that victim deserve . briefly , I will explain the key Government amendment , start with those about which I anticipate there will be no dispute : namely , the extension to Northern Ireland of our new spike measure in clause 13 , and the statutory aggravating factor for groom activity in relation to child sexual offence in clause 30 . new clause 88 provide for equivalence in sentencing for terrorist offender between England and Wales and Northern Ireland , as a consequence of the irregularity that be identify in the case of r v . Perry . government new clause 89 extend the time limit for the unduly lenient sentence scheme , and will extend the overall time limit to six week . a request must still be submit by any prospective appellant to the Attorney General ' s Office within the usual 28 day , but the Attorney General ' s Office will have an additional 14 day to consider whether the case be appropriate for submission to the Court of Appeal . in recent year the number of case refer to the Law Officers have increase , in part due to a well awareness of the scheme . we consider it to be in the interest of justice that each application be give due care and attention , even when it be submit close to the 28 - day deadline , and we believe that the new clause be a proportionate way of achieve that . on attendance at sentencing hearing , a change have be initiate already in the legislation in response to public concern about high - profile case , such as those of Lucy Letby , Jordan McSweeney and Thomas Cashman , all of whom refuse to attend their sentencing hearing . do my hon . friend agree that such case , which have rightly gain a huge amount of public traction , be one where it be appropriate for the Government to be make further announcement and put in measure at this stage ? I agree with that sentiment entirely . we be already create an express statutory power at clause 28 to compel an offender to attend the sentencing hearing if they have be convict of a crime for which the maximum sentence be life , but we have also listen to those concerned about offence that might not be catch by that power . I confirm that the Government have table amendment 148 to 150 to extend the measure to all offence that might attract a maximum sentence of 14 year or more . I be grateful to the Lord Chancellor , the Minister and other Ministers for listen to the case I make on second reading for extend the power . I have a case in my constituency where an offender be convict of sexually assault a child under 13 , which carry a 14 - year sentence . they hide away in their cell and do not come to court . under the original provision , they would not have be capture , but under these amendment they will be , and I welcome that . I thank my hon . friend , because the speech he give on Second Reading play a major role in the change we be introduce today . I reassure he that the change bring into scope most sexual assault case , terrorist case and racially aggravate offence , and I confirm to he that the specific case he raise on Second Reading would have be bring into scope by the change for which he have campaign . I remind the House that the sanction for non - attendance at a sentencing hearing be up to a maximum of another two year in custody . government new clause 86 create an offence of create a sexually explicit deepfake of an adult without their consent . member will be aware that the sharing of intimate image , whether real or fake , be already proscribe under the Online Safety Act 2023 . we consider that we can not complete the task of protect people , principally woman , unless we add the creation of pseudo - image or deepfake to that package of protection . we be the first national legislature to take this step — if I be wrong about that , we be among the first — and we do so because we recognise the inherent risk pose by the creation of these image , both to the individual depict and to society more widely . I know that the Minister will have give thought to this , but do she agree that there be a problem not just with deepfake sexual image , but more widely with deepfake image that purport to show individual and potentially even member of this House do and say thing that they have not and that have no sexual connotation whatever ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for raise that point . we be encounter a rapidly change world of deepfake image that can be use for the purpose of manipulate voice to try to influence political attitude and choice . I have to make it clear that the new clause be confine only to the creation of sexually explicit image . however , it be my hope , humbly express at this Dispatch Box , that it may provide a gateway and lever for the development of more law in this area , and I thank she for her intervention . I particularly thank the Minister for this new clause . it obviously only cover adult , because produce sexual content of child be already illegal , but I be tell that since the Government announce their intention to move the new clause , Apple and Google have already remove from their app store a number of app that be enable user to produce deepfake nude . those application have be use to create indecent image of child , as well as of adult . disable those app have already help to keep the public safe and to significantly improve the safeguarding of child . just by table the new clause , the Government have already force the industry to act in the UK . that be music to our ear . it be not lose on we that , within day of make the announcement , two of the major deepfake or nudify site have block access to UK user in anticipation of the fact that even the act of use that site would become a criminal offence under our impending legislation . I thank the Minister for her personal championing of this new clause . as she know , the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee recommend it , and we benefit from a seminar conduct with the campaigner that Glamour magazine bring together to bring the experience of people right across the country to a focal point . they deserve credit for have bring this issue to the House , as do the Minister for champion it so brilliantly and bring the new clause today . I have to thank the team at Glamour magazine , because they lead an excellent campaign . I be halfway through try to make the change myself when I become aware of it , but I read the material that they put out . it totally chime with our objective , and I know that my right hon . Friend welcome the team to Parliament just a few week ago . intimate image abuse be an important issue to be deal with . can the Minister explain why she have not approach it in the same way as her colleague approach it in the Online Safety Bill ? it be a long - fight battle to have the Online Safety Bill recognise consent as pivotal , yet she have choose not to take that approach at this stage , which I think many will find disappointing . I want to be crystal clear that , under the new clause , the offence be commit if the pseudo - image be create without the consent of the person who be the subject . that be at subsection 1 ( c ) and 2 ( c ) of propose new section 66ad . let I talk for a moment about intent . the new clause differ from some of the content in the Online Safety Act 2023 . it do not relate to intimate image , such as a person wear a swimsuit , but apply to sexually explicit image , which be define in legislation . it require not only that the image be sexually explicit and be create without the consent of the subject matter , but that it be do for the purpose of sexual gratification or with the intent of cause humiliation , alarm or distress . I gently say that a similar measure be debate in the Bill Committee . I think it be table by the hon . member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) , and he will recognise that the intent of the provision that the Government have adopt be the same as the Opposition ' s . I be aware of what my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke be say about the base event . perhaps I can allay her concern by simply say this : it be a novel new measure for any Government to take . she make sensible and compelling argument on this point , and I hope she will feel reassure if we take an iterative approach for the time be . she will recall that the Law Commission recommend that we do not introduce legislation at all , and I will come on to say a little about that . it be right to say that other country be look at we carefully . the Justice Secretary be at the G7 in Venice just last weekend , and other G7 Justice Ministers have notice that we be make this change and be observe carefully . we be make this change because we recognise the inherent risk pose by these image and that the offence be overwhelmingly target at woman , predicate on an absence of consent . as such , we consider it a gateway to more serious offending . we make some point by way of clarification . we carefully consider the Law Commission ' s recommendation in its excellent report on intimate image abuse , which have inform much of our recent work , although respectfully on this , we have diverge from its point of view . in response to some of its concern , I would like to reassure the House . we recognise that the amendment could criminalise young people , particularly teenage boy . to reduce the risk of over - criminalisation , we believe that we have set pragmatic parameter . creation alone will be a non - imprisonable offence , although it will incur a potentially unlimited fine . the offence of creation alone would not attract notification requirement , mean that the offender will not be place on the sex offender register . as hon . member will know , all of that change if the image be share . victim of that offence will be entitle to automatic anonymity in line with all the other sexual offence and they will also be eligible for special measure at trial . we be delighted to see major deepfake website withdraw from the United Kingdom and we encourage the other to follow their lead . I turn to Government new clause 87 , which introduce a statutory aggravating factor for manslaughter involve sexual conduct . the clause correspond to , and potentially should be read in conjunction with , section 71 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , which say that it be not a defence to argue that a victim consent to the infliction of serious harm for the purpose of sexual gratification . we have long hold concern about killing of this nature where , by definition , the victim can not give an account of consent , yet on occasion the court have implicitly seek to categorise the killing as a consequence of sexual choice , as oppose to the consequence of the development of social norm base on structural inequality . we invite the eminent criminal barrister Clare Wade KC to consider the issue specifically in her domestic homicide review last year . she say that case of this nature must be view through the prism of coercive control and that " the policy underpin law ought to consider the wide harm which emanate from the behaviour which can and do lead to this category of homicide . " we agree , and we be increase the punishment for degrading and abusive conduct of this nature . follow careful consultation with the Sentencing Council , we be table a statutory aggravate factor so that sentence for manslaughter involve sexual conduct must be more severe . it will cover all case where the act be directly attributable to sexual conduct . I want to provide the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) with one point of reassurance . she will know from all her work , and particularly the research conduct by we can ' t Consent to this and the team , that of all these homicide almost 60 % be strangulation case . I know that that be not the point that she wish to make with her amendment , but there be some overlap . on parental responsibility , as hon . member will be aware , the Government have already amend the Children Act 1989 via the Victims and Prisoners Bill to provide for the automatic suspension of parental responsibility in case where one parent kill the other . we be make an amendment to develop the law far , provide that , where a father be convict of child rape , parental responsibility that he may have for any child will be automatically suspend . I pay tribute to the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) — I think that she be in the war at the moment — for the way in which she have present this issue . she have advance the compelling argument that we have long - establish principle to protect child from sex offender by place people on the sex offender register and protect they from work with child , but while we have measure to protect other people ' s child , the same protection do not exist for the child of the offender unless the mother go to the family court to remove his right . I also pay tribute to Sanchia Berg , the journalist who reveal this issue through her work and highlight the practical obstacle that some mother have face in make this application , as well as other family who have talk about their experience , include via their Member of Parliament , one example be my hon . friend the Member for Meriden ( Saqib Bhatti ) ; I be not sure if he be in his place . the father will still be able to apply to the family court to have the suspension of his parental responsibility lift , but it be obviously fair to assume that , if he have be convict of child rape , such an application be unlikely to succeed . we have also include a clear requirement for this measure to be review after it have be in place for three year . it be a pleasure to see in the Public Gallery some of the family who have champion this issue in the west midland . be I right in thinking — I really hope that I be not — that this measure cover only those convict of the rape of a child , not other sexual offence against a child and a child age 13 or over ? the hon . member be correct . I simply want to say again that this be a novel power that we be extend to Crown court judge , who typically do not have any knowledge of family law matter or a family law background . once again , we think it be right that we take an iterative approach . there be a dialogue between the Mother of the House and the Lord Chancellor on this point , and she agree with the approach . I do not want to put word in her mouth , and I be keenly aware of her absence when she should be speak to her new clause , but I believe that she be satisfied with where we have get to . I commend the new clause and urge all colleague to give it their support . I turn next to new clause 94 and 95 and new schedule 4 . I commend my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for his excellent campaign and dedication to craft a new offence . I must also mention my hon . friend the Members for Eastbourne ( Caroline Ansell ) and for Hertford and Stortford ( Julie Marson ) , who also come to see I and make a really compelling argument . when it come to cuckooing , although there be a range of current offence that can be apply , the Government have listen carefully to concern about weakness in the exist legal framework . new clause 94 therefore provide for a bespoke criminal offence to tackle cuckooing . the offence criminalise the control , whether exercise by mean of coercion or otherwise , over another person ' s home for the purpose of use it as a base to commit specify criminal activity . the specify offence , which be list in the new schedule , include drug offence , sexual offence and offensive weapon crime . I stress that that be a non - exhaustive list , which the Secretary of State can amend as mode of criminality might develop . I want to give some reassurance to my right hon . friend about the issue of consent , which be of course a defence if a person have allow somebody into their home . consent will apply only if it be determined to have be give freely and to have be give on a continuous basis . of course , coercion be the principal test that would be apply in assess that freedom of choice . I be grateful for that . the key bit about cuckooing be that the police have never be able to arrest somebody because they have take over a house ; they have to prove that there be criminal activity inside . this new offence will therefore break new ground and protect people . there be an important point about coercion . will the Minister guarantee that in the guidance note attach to the Bill it will be clear to the police that they should be check that victim be not be coerce into say that they have give their consent ? it be important for the police to know that . that be an excellent suggestion . I confirm that and thank my right hon . friend once again . before I conclude , I would like to address a number of other matter that have be raise by hon . member and table as amendment . I start with the new clause table by my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) — before the Minister move on — I apologise if she have address this and I miss it — could I get from she an explanation about Government new clause 102 , which seek to remove the protection of the Human Rights Act by effectively exclude the defence of lawful or reasonable excuse ? this be now the fourth piece of legislation that the Government have introduce that will remove the protection of the Human Rights Act . we understand the reason why they could not proceed with a Bill of right , but surely if they be to remove human right protection , that should be do in a proper , consider manner and not through salami slicing such as this . I will have to double - check that new clause , but I simply say that , with two exception , all the convention right be qualified right , which can be restrict in reasonable circumstance . I promise that I will check that and come back to the right hon . gentleman in wind up the debate , if I may . I be in the process of pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford and my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) for the outstanding representation that they have give to their constituent who be affect by David Fuller ' s act of depravity . that be reflect in new clause 62 , which the Government support , on the offence of necrophilia . it be perhaps a rare thing in 2024 that an offence can be identify that Parliament have not previously consider , but such be the extent of Fuller ' s offend that we have have to do so . the Government be pleased to confirm that the Sexual Offences Act 2003 will be amend by the Bill to capture the sexual touching of a corpse with a new maximum sentence of seven year for penetrative offence and five year for non - penetrative act . I thank the Minister for her kind comment . my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) will try to catch the Deputy Speaker ' s eye later to speak in more detail on this , but let I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Minister for take a lot of time to work through this amendment thoughtfully and correctly , to provide great protection and give some comfort to the family of the victim of David Fuller that justice have be think about . she have listen sensitively and carefully to the comment of our constituent . I thank my hon . friend for her comment . they be truly appalling crime , and I have the constituent of both my hon . friend in mind when I think about how to develop the law . we can not change what happen in the past , but I hope we can send the clear possible message in future . I want to come to a couple of other matter , though I will not pre - empt what hon . member might be incline to say . first , I want to talk about new clause 9 , on one - punch manslaughter . I pay special tribute to my hon . friend , and my friend , the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) . this be not an ordinary campaign for she , but one bear out of the deep tragedy of her childhood . I know that she will speak to the new clause , and I will respond in detail , but I hope she will not mind my saying that I think her dad would feel very proud of how she have conduct herself on this issue , and would be pleased with the change that we be make . I come to the amendment table by the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) on prisoner transfer to overseas prison . I want to set out the Government ' s position in general , and in particular in relation to the transfer criterion . the Government agree that not all prisoner will be appropriate for transfer to rent prison overseas — indeed , the hon . Member have set out some very sensible principle in his own amendment . I would like to give he three point of reassurance . the proposal for foreign prisoner transfer will extend to approximately 600 prisoner — equivalent to just under half of 1 % of the entire prison estate . I can confirm that we will not negotiate a prison transfer agreement with a woman ' s prison . we will conclude a deal only with a country that can demonstrate that its prison condition and capability meet the applicable human right standard . the Secretary of State retain responsibility for each prisoner , which ensure that any transfer prisoner retain all their right under the european convention on human right , irrespective of where they may be transfer . however , we believe that legislation be the good place for negotiate further term , with the appropriate involvement of expert . the Lord Chancellor have already confirm that the use of these power require a valid international agreement , and any such agreement would be put before Parliament as a treaty , subject to ratification procedure contain in the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 . I be grateful to the Minister for those reassurance , but some of we have mark misgiving about the whole concept , which speak a little more of gimmickry than anything likely to ease the real pressure on our prison . that say , I can see that it might be a tool in the box . could she help I on two matter that the Law Society have raise ? if the agreement be use , what arrangement will ensure that prisoner be able to access legal advice in a proper way , perhaps in relation to appeal or other proceeding ? that be essential to ensure a fair approach . how will they be able to participate remotely if necessary in any ongoing legal proceeding ? secondly , what be to be do about family visit ? as the Minister will know , the retention of family tie be particularly important , and recognise universally as a key factor in rehabilitation and prevent reoffende . we would not want to disrupt those opportunity for anyone be transfer . I thank my hon . and learn Friend for his sensible intervention , which engage two issue : article 6 consideration on the right to a fair trial , and article 8 consideration on the right to respect for private and family life . we be keenly aware of those obligation . I be sorry that I can not give more detail on that , only the extra reassurance that the Lord Chancellor have insist that prisoner will retain all their right under the convention . these will be principal consideration . I will ask the Lord Chancellor to write to my hon . and learn Friend to flesh out some of those response . my hon . friend have give a wide - range opening speech , but I want to press she on one more issue : spike . first , I thank she for recognise the importance of create an offence to cover it . we have a spate of spike attack in Nottingham , and the story of the young people affect be chilling . I seek her reassurance that we will create the most robust possible legislation in this area , and that she will look kindly on the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) , who have lead a fantastic campaign to get spike recognise in law . it be so important that we cover all the intention that someone might have when they set about spike someone , even if it be that they think it might be a bit of fun . it be certainly not fun for their victim , and it be important that we do not create a loophole where offender might be able to wriggle off the hook . I hope that I can provide my hon . friend , my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) and my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) with some reassurance . the offence be draft to cover all possible outcome . we look very carefully at the wording . I want to provide some specific reassurance about " attempt " , which I know my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester be concerned about ; it be in his amendment . it be not necessary to put a separate offence of attempt to spike in the Bill , because it be capture as an inchoate offence under section 1 ( 4 ) of the Criminal Attempts Act 1981 , which cover all form of attempt of a crime that be on the statute book . I hope that provide some reassurance . I thank member on all side of the House for their engagement in the Bill , their joint commitment to its successful development as legislation that enhance our criminal justice system , and that deliver robust protection , appropriate penalty and a well framework of justice for the public . our Government amendment achieve that , and I will respond in due course to member ’ view . I commend the amendment and new clause to the House . I call the Opposition spokesperson . we be finally here , 18 week since Committee stage be complete . the Government be run scared , not just from we on the Opposition Benches but from their own member . we very much welcome the huge pile of concession make and the clause withdraw . I give credit to member across the Benches for hold the Government to account . surely , the Bill must be one of the good example ever of how not to create new legislation , with dozen of Government amendment in Committee and now dozen more on Report , as well as many new clause from Ministers . by Friday evening there be as many as 70 page of they from the Government alone . the hon . Gentleman seem to suggest that Ministers should not listen to case make by member on both side of the House . it be to the Government ' s credit that they have listen to people across the piece . however , huge number of clause and new idea have be bring forward by the Government , which be not table in Committee or even mention on Second Reading . as my hon . friend the Member for Poplar and Limehouse ( Apsana Begum ) say , this be not the way to do business . let I address the many Government new clause and amendment , and those in my name and that of my partner in crime , the hon . member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) , and those in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) and other . start with amendment 56 in the name of my hon . friend the hon . member for Nottingham North , and Government new clause 86 , the creation of deepfake pornography be a modern phenomenon , but one with very traditional intention : to cause humiliation , distress and public embarrassment , and to weaken the victim ' relationship . it be right that , as the technology become more sophisticated , so do the legal protection . on second Reading and in Committee we welcome the Bill ' s provision on intimate photograph or film and voyeurism . sexual offending in the online and digital word continue to grow at a terrifying pace . the rise in deepfake be concern for a variety of reason , not least for the impact on political debate and the spread of false information . I have also be horrify by report of the use of deepfake to sexually harass and humiliate individual . the exponential rise in the use of explicit deepfake image demand urgent legislative action . create an explicit deepfake without someone ' s consent be a deeply violate act , one that cause victim to feel embarrassed , alarmed and unsafe . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) for her work on new clause 43 . it would create an offence of create or share mislead content . such content can reach a wide audience in a short space of time , with question over legitimacy come far too late , when the harm have already be do . my hon . friend recognise the impact that such abuse of technology have on our democracy . as we say in Committee , there be a gap ; we feel that victim ought to have similar , or the same , protection when imagery be fake as they do when the image be real . we be disappoint that the Government knock that suggestion back in Committee , but we welcome the fact that they have now table their own version of an amendment that address the point in Government new clause 86 , which we will , of course , support . on new clause 86 , do the hon . Gentleman share the concern of many woman outside this place about the almost backward step the Government have take by not focus on a base offence relate to people give consent to their image be use ? I think we have win that argument , but that seem to have evaporate . that be central to the Online Safety Act 2023 . why be he not press for that change , as other be outside this place ? the right hon . Member make a strong point , and it be up to the Government to respond to it . we believe that we should extend all protection to woman in all circumstance . we welcome amendment 160 in the name of the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) . the Online Safety Act make significant progress on intimate image abuse , or revenge porn , which be an abhorrent crime , and it be right that , through this Bill , we continue the good work do through that Act . we therefore support amendment 160 , which would make offence relate to non - consensual intimate photograph or film priority offence under the Online Safety Act . that will ensure that this heinous practice be treat seriously and deal with proactively , so that the harm it cause be reduce . new clause 87 make it an aggravate factor if an offence of manslaughter involve sexual conduct , and do the same for the correspond service offence . the Government have support from across the House when they restate in statute , in the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 , that " a person be unable to consent to the infliction of harm that result in actual bodily harm or … their own death , for the purpose of obtain sexual gratification " . it will therefore not surprise the Government to hear that the new clause have the support of Labour Members . we be all aware of the high - profile case in which woman have be kill as a result of allegedly consensual sado - masochistic act of violence during sex . we share the Government ' s ambition to do more on the issue , in recognition of the serious public concern about these horrific case . amendment 57 , in my name , would ensure that when court order a defendant to attend sentencing , they first satisfy themselves that that would not put their staff at risk . government amendment 149 and 150 low the threshold for the availability of the new power to order an offender to attend a sentencing hearing , so that it apply where an offence be punishable with imprisonment for 14 year or more . clause 28 come in the wake of a dismaying trend of high - profile criminal opt not to attend their sentencing hearing . former neonatal nurse Lucy Letby do that in August last year . she refuse to attend her sentencing hearing for the murder of seven baby , and the attempt murder of another six entrust to her care . have also refuse to attend via video link , she remain in the cell below Manchester Crown court as bereaved family member deliver victim personal statement , and the judge pass a whole life order in her absence . in April last year , Thomas Cashman exploit the same procedural rule by refuse to attend his sentencing hearing . he travel to Manchester Crown court , but decline to leave his cell , claim that he have be provoke by court official . he receive a sentence of life imprisonment , with a minimum term of 42 year , for the fatal shooting of nine - year - old Olivia Pratt - Korbel in her home . we share the view that , wherever possible , defendant ought to hear the victim impact statement set out how victim and family have be affect by the crime . in Committee , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) , accept that " the judge now have discretion to make such an order , but we have find that it be not evenly or always apply " – – [ Official Report , Criminal Justice Public Bill Committee , 16 January 2024 ; c . 244 . ] as in the case of Lucy Letby , where the judge do not compel her attendance . the Minister say that put the measure in the Bill would ensure a power in statute for a judge to compel a person to attend their sentencing for any serious offence for which the maximum sentence be a life sentence . the Government ' s page of amendment include those to clause 28 , and we be supportive of all effort to improve the Bill ' s workability . I say in Committee that there be nothing in the Government ' s explanatory note about the resource need to deliver the policy . likewise , there be little if anything about how the staff who would be at the sharp end of deliver a defendant to court will be protect . the charity Justice raise the concern with I that the policy put staff at risk ; it be questionable whether the discretion to use force in propose new section 41B ( 4 ) of the Sentencing Code be real , or merely apparent , in view of propose new section 41B ( 6 ) . I have a lot of sympathy with the point the shadow Minister be make . it be right that there should be a power — I think we all agree — to prevent vile offender from show the cowardly behaviour of not face the relative and hear their sentence in person . however , the Professional Trades Union for Prison , Correctional and Secure Psychiatric Workers have a concern , which he rightly raise . prison officer already put their life on the line every day — they can be subject to violence when go about their work in prison — but there be a particular concern . we be extend the measure to a wide range of offence , and very often , those involve in bring people to court be contractor — from , say , Serco — who may not have the experience or training to deal with these rather difficult situation . it be perhaps therefore all the more important that there be proper consultation with the workforce who will be at the sharp end , as he say . indeed ; that be very much the case . a few paragraph far on in my speech , I will address that point specifically , as I do in Committee . propose new section 41B ( 6 ) state : " a person be to be treat as have comply with an order under subsection ( 2 ) if they have do all that they reasonably can to secure that the offender be produce before the court for the sentencing hearing . " give that subsection ( 4 ) provide the authority to use " reasonable force " , those responsible for produce the offender who fail to use such force be arguably at risk of be hold in contempt for fail to comply with a court order . prison governor and custody officer be accordingly place in an invidious position . in her letter to I date 1 March , the Minister say : " prison officer and Prison Escort and Custody Service staff be train in control and restraint technique , and we would expect they to use these skill to enforce a lawfully give order that an offender should attend court . further guidance , training and , if require , personal protective equipment will be provide to ensure that prison and escort staff be fully support to affect such court order . the security and safety of prisoner , and well - being of prison officer will remain a priority . " when I first consider clause 28 , I make enquiry about how reasonable force be currently use by prison officer to deliver a defendant to court . it come as a surprise to I to learn that it involve three prison officer in full riot gear , include overall , glove , steel - toed boot , helmet and shield , approach the prisoner , secure they and get they into the transport vehicle . their job be then complete , and responsibility pass to the private security firm staff to deliver the defendant to the court . unlike the prison officer , neither private security staff nor receive court staff be equip with the personal protective equipment or the training to transfer the defendant first into the court cell and then to the dock . that be exactly the point raise by the Chair of the Justice Committee , the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) . I want to raise again with the Minister the question of whether the clause will ensure that all staff involve in produce a prisoner at their sentencing hearing be protect , all the way from the cell to the dock , and probably while the prisoner be in the dock as well . I have bring back amendment 57 in the absence of clarity from the Minister about how that would work in practice . I would welcome her further comment . amendment 58 would exclude some type of prisoner from be issue with a warrant to serve a sentence in a foreign country . it would exclude people with less than six month to serve , those serve indeterminate sentence for public protection , and those who need to be detain in the UK for education or training purpose , or for legal proceeding , such as parole . I accept what the Minister say about that in her speech . in Committee , I raise the subject of the failure of the Bill and the accompany note to provide detail on exactly how the scheme to transfer prisoner abroad would work , who the partner country would be , and where their responsibility would lie . the Minister say that the amendment that I have table make " sensible " point , but that the Government " believe that they be well address through policy , base on … expertise from within the prison system , not set out in primary legislation . " she also tell I that it be her " understanding " that no prisoner would be move to country not cover by the european convention on human right , and I welcome what she have say about that today . again refer to I , the Minister say : " he … ask about the availability of legal advice … first of all , the whole landscape of court procedure have change in the last few year . receive legal advice can be do remotely , and court proceeding often take place remotely via a live link . " – – [ Official Report , Criminal Justice Public Bill Committee , 18 January 2024 ; c . 280 - 281 . ] that be suppose to mitigate the fact that someone be in a cell abroad . the Minister be also at pain to point out that 10 % of prisoner be foreign national , so " family and primary care consideration be already rather different " . – – [ Official Report , Criminal Justice Public Bill Committee , 18 January 2024 ; c . 282 . ] perhaps there be a clue there , suggest that it be foreign offender and not british national whom the Government really want to send overseas . the Minister have talk of only 600 prisoner be affect by this policy , and I welcome her assurance that no woman will be affect . I know that the Government be negotiate with some country about where the prisoner will go , but we do not have the fine detail that we need in order to understand whether the policy will be effective . the Minister herself acknowledge that " there be not much detail in the Bill " , but say that the Government be develop " primary legislation to create the framework for the agreement . " – – [ Official Report , Criminal Justice Public Bill Committee , 18 January 2024 ; c . 287 . ] she be refer , of course , to agreement that have not yet be make . however , policy change all the time , so we need to nail down the provision in the Bill and who will be include and exclude . amendment 59 to 62 amend clause 35 , which relate to transfer prisoner to foreign prison . amendment 59 " would require the Controller to make a report to the Secretary of State on any breach of the arrangement between the foreign country and the UK . " clause 28 of the original Bill provide for the Secretary of State to appoint a controller to keep under review and report on the running of any rent prison space abroad . it also extend the power of his Majesty ' s chief inspector of prison to inspect and report on the condition in such place . the Bill , however , place a great deal of unaccountable authority in the hand of the Executive , who can make provision for any arrangement by mean of secondary legislation . it be silent on how those subject to this arrangement will be treat . similarly , it provide no guarantee that the prison rule in secondary legislation , which govern crucial issue include segregation , complaint and the use of force , would apply . I hope the Government share my view that any agreement make between the UK and a foreign state should be subject to full parliamentary scrutiny and oversight . amendment 59 would help to enable that to happen by require the controller to report any breach of the arrangement to the Secretary of State . amendment 60 would ensure that the prison inspectorate " must " conduct the duty specify in propose new subsection 5d in section 5a of the Prisons Act 1952 , and would ensure its consistency with the legislative basis for its role in England and Wales . we fear that the oversight of both the controller and his Majesty ' s inspectorate of prison will ultimately be subject to negotiation with a relevant partner country . the wording in the Bill relate to the power of the inspectorate differ from the wording in the Prisons Act , in that it state that the chief inspector " may " , rather than " shall " , inspect . the implication be that inspection could take place only by invitation of the foreign state , rather than as a statutory requirement . that leave open to future negotiation crucial aspect of HMIP ' s role and methodology , such as its ability to conduct unannounced inspection , to speak to prisoner in private , and to access record such as those relate to the use of force , which would mean that a low standard of independent scrutiny would be apply to the treatment and condition of UK prisoner hold under such arrangement . amend the Bill to ensure that HMIP can perform its duty under the optional protocol to the convention against torture and other cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment be an important safeguard to ensure rigorous , independent scrutiny . amendment 61 would ensure that HMIP could inspect escort arrangement under which prisoner be transfer to foreign prison . clause 28 of the original Bill specifie that the chief inspector may inspect or arrange for the inspection of any prison where prisoner be detain under an arrangement between the UK and a foreign state . the inspectorate ' s power to inspect escort arrangement be make by amendment to the Prisons Act in section 46 of the Immigration , Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 . it be particularly important that the inspectorate should also be able to inspect the escort arrangement for the transfer of UK prisoner to foreign prison . our amendment would bring the legislation into line with the inspectorate ' s power in relation to prison in England and Wales by also enable it to inspect or arrange for the inspection of escort arrangement . a foreign state with which the UK make an agreement could potentially be many thousand of mile from the UK . the transfer of prisoner could involve a lengthy journey include a variety of mode of transport such as , potentially , prison van , plane , train and ferry . the potential for trouble appear limitless . amendment 62 be a probe amendment that seek to clarify how the Government intend to apply their obligation under article 2 of the european convention on human right on the right to life , under the Human Rights Act , by ensure that the duty of the coroner also apply to any death involve a prisoner subject to a transfer agreement with a foreign country . it be our view that the nature of the arrangement to send individual to overseas prison will establish the UK ' s jurisdiction over any death that occur . give the unprecedented nature of these arrangement , it be crucial for the responsibility of coroner to investigate overseas death to be establish clearly in advance . to do otherwise would invite significant uncertainty and likely legal challenge if any individual be to die while imprison overseas . new clause 2 stand in the name of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) . she can not be with we today after a fall , and I be sure that everyone here will want to send she their good wish for a speedy recovery . her new clause address the parental responsibility of man convict of sexual offence against child . government new clause 103 fall short of that , in that the offender capture by the clause will be restrict to those sentence for the rape of a child . however , the new clause address the same key issue : how can an individual be consider too dangerous to work with or be around other people ' s child , yet be allow to have responsibility for a child ' s life so long as that child be their own ? I be glad to note that the Minister have take away some of the concern raise in Committee and that the Government have respond with new clause 103 , which go some way in the right direction on the issue raise by my right hon . and learn Friend . however , I be not sure that the Minister have entirely accept the explanation offer to she in this regard . as I have say , my right hon . and learn Friend can not be here today , but I pay tribute on her behalf not just to the Ministers and the BBC ' s Sanchia Berg , but to the bravery and persistence of Bethan ' s family , who have fight to protect not only their own child but everyone else ' s . I should be interested to hear the Minister ' s explanation for the restriction of the provision to those who have be convict of the rape of a child only . there be discussion in Committee about the breadth of the scope when the proposal be to include all sex offence in such a provision , but it seem to I that the Government have go too far in the other direction , albeit while make a concession . only include those convict of the rape of a child constitute a narrow scope , and as such will leave scope for man who have be convict of other serious sex offence against child to be in control of important aspect of their child ' s life . it prompt the question : why should any child be subject to any form of control by a convict child sex offender who be unlikely to be part of that child ' s life for year ahead , and possibly forever ? new clause 7 , which be table by the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , and Government new clause 94 and 95 and new schedule 4 , would make it an offence to exercise control over another person ' s residence for the purpose of criminal activity by mean of coercion , threat or abuse of a position of vulnerability . in Committee , I propose a new clause that would make cuckoo a specific offence . I be pleased not only that the new clause have since be table by the right hon . Member Chingford and Woodford Green , but that the Government have subsequently see sense and follow suit . as be make clear in Committee , substantial harm be cause by cuckooing , so I be keen to hear the Minister ' s thought on the issue . I do , however , remain supportive of new clause 94 and 95 and new schedule 4 , which together create the offence of exercise control over another person ' s dwell for the purpose of enable it to be use in connection with the commission of certain offence . when I speak to the new clause in Committee , I receive support from the Police Superintendents Association , which say : " there be clear need for legislation of this kind , with evidence show that cuckooing be a widely use tactic in many serious offence , include those link to serious and organised crime , such as county line drug supply and human trafficking . " Cuckooing be a terrifying experience for the vulnerable adult who be target by these criminal , and I do not think that any of we can comprehend what it would mean to have our home take over in such a way . I suspect that there be not a Member here who do not know a vulnerable adult in their constituency , or someone who live alone , who could be target by such unscrupulous criminal . the police work with local authority to deliver a safeguarding response for victim of cuckooing . for example , the Metropolitan Police Service have dedicate cuckooing officer who work with partner to safeguard victim and divert they from the criminal justice system . however , cuckooing be not define in legislation and be not a specific offence , so today ' s government amendment be very welcome . my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) raise the issue of profiteer from prostitution in new clause 8 , as she do in Committee . she have explain that it would enact the recommendation of the cross - party Home Affairs Committee to make it a criminal offence to facilitate or profit from the prostitution of another person , online or offline . there be clearly gap in provision if our law mean it be illegal to pimp offline but not online . I note that in the Minister ' s response to the Committee , she suggest that the new clause as draft would also prevent individual who lawfully sell sex from do so online , where they feel safe , and as a result these individual could be force into additional danger by have to advertise on the street or underground in some way . I certainly recognise the Minister ' s concern . any provision must ensure that those whom it be intend to protect do not inadvertently come to additional harm . I be , however , sceptical that the measure in the Online Safety Act 2023 , whereby online platform for individual advertising be responsible and accountable for the content on their site , will do as much as she claim to address these issue . new clause 9 , which stand in the name of the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) , be intend to create a specific offence of one - punch manslaughter , with a minimum sentence of seven year . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) move the same new clause in Committee , but it be not push to a vote . we commend the hon . member for Bishop Auckland for her effort on this issue and we understand that she be continue her discussion with Ministers . we hope that progress be be make behind the scene . new clause 12 , which deal with control or coercive behaviour by person provide psychotherapy or counselling service , be an interesting clause in its own right , and there be a good discussion on its content in the other place , when the provision be table as an amendment to what be now the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . the new clause aim to address the controlling and coercive behaviour effect by charlatan therapist that can have ruinous consequence for the life of their client . clearly , any instance of such manipulation and abuse be deeply concern , especially give the trust role that psychotherapist and counsellor be put in by their client , who often engage their service when they be in a particularly vulnerable place . I will be interested to hear the Government ' s thought on the scale of the issue , and on what other measure could be implement to address this problem . there be a suggestion in the debate on the Domestic Abuse Act that regulation and accreditation would be the appropriate response , although several member point out that charlatan do not tend to go through the effort of accreditation . none the less , I be concern by the report of individual , often young woman , be harm by such practice , and I be keen to hear from the government how this could be address . new clause 16 be table by my hon . friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) , who be in his place today and can speak to the tragic case in his constituency that it seek to address . I want to reiterate what we say in Committee . the Road Traffic Act 1988 provide vital protection to all of we . it bar certain behaviour that we know be dangerous , but there be a loophole whereby those sort of behaviour can be exhibit on private property without sanction . it be reasonable to bring the law on private property into alignment with the RTA 1988 in the interest of public safety . in Committee , the Government seem to be of a similar mind . however , this be one of the few area where they have not propose their own version today . we hope that the Minister will signal their intent to do so at a later stage or , if not , that they will accept my hon . friend ' s version , which we support . in addition , my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) have table new clause 35 and 36 , for which he make a strong case in Committee . I hope the Government have have the chance to reflect on his proposal and will respond to they positively . new clause 18 and 19 , which stand in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North , would update section 1 of the Computer Misuse Act 1990 , which prohibit unauthorised access to computer . simply put , the current legislation inadvertently criminalise a large proportion of legitimate vulnerability , security and threat intelligence research by UK cyber - security professional , who be commit a crime if they use legitimate technique to check for vulnerability , to carry out research or to build defence . we be ask they to put themselves at risk in order to do something that be clearly a social good , so the new clause seek to update the Act . in the UK alone , there be a 77 % increase in cyber - threat last year . we know that their impact on individual ’ life can be hugely consequential , but the legislation that provide the foundation to take on that sort of cyber - threat be more than 33 year old . legislation have not keep pace with modern cyber - security defence technique , so it be vital that we take the opportunity to act now and update the law accordingly . new clause 18 and 19 would do that . in a similar vein , new clause 38 seek to update the statute book to ensure that the law keep pace with change , this time in relation to liability for corporate offence . the new clause also stand in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North , and he pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) for she continue campaign on this matter . it would introduce individual liability so that senior executive can be hold liable for criminal activity commit by a company or partnership on the basis of negligence . the offence would apply both to crime commit by the company or partnership and to a failure to prevent those crime from happen . the UK have a serious accountability gap when it come to senior executive . despite a number of corporate scandal and failure , such as the miscarriage of justice at the Post Office and water company illegally discharge sewage into our river , those at the helm of large company that engage in such wrongdoing rarely face any consequence . that lead to poor corporate governance standard and to a great risk that the huge cost of corporate failure and misconduct will be bear by ordinary people . it be also unfair that director in the small business sector face the vast brunt of prosecutorial and regulatory action . regulatory fine alone be not sufficient to drive behavioural change . if the senior executive at these company be not hold criminally liable , fine become a cost of do business rather than a deterrent to bad behaviour . we need to reform the law so that we can hold senior executive criminally liable for deliberately turn a blind eye or create a culture of misconduct . that would lower the risk of further corporate failure . new clause 38 would make that change . new clause 25 on the offence of possession of guidance on create child sexual abuse content and new clause 26 on the offence of simulate sexual communication with a child be table by the right hon . member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) . new clause 25 would expand the exist offence of possess guide about abuse child sexually to include guide on create child sexual abuse content , include through the use of artificial intelligence or machine learning . new clause 26 would create an offence of use , create or share online or digital tool that simulate sexual communication with a child . we know that the increase online presence of child and the late technological development create new opportunity for abuse . Ofcom agree that the sexual exploitation and abuse of child online be a persistent and grow threat , with devastating consequence for those affect . new risk be emerge as the way we interact online continue to evolve , include through extended reality , end - to - end encryption and generative AI . in a BBC report , maker of child sexual abuse image be find to be use AI software call Stable Diffusion . this software be intend to generate image for use in art or graphic design , but the BBC have find that it be be use to create lifelike image of child sexual abuse , include the rape of baby and toddler . under article 34 of the United Nations convention on the right of the child , state party have an obligation " to protect the child from all form of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse . " the criminalisation of online sexual exploitation and abuse form part of a state party ' s obligation to protect child under article 34 of the CRC . the UN committee on the right of the child affirm this in general comment no . 25 ( 2021 ) by call on state party to put " appropriate legislation … in place to protect child from the crime that occur in the digital environment … and to allocate sufficient resource to ensure that crime in the digital environment be investigate and prosecute . " that include online child sexual exploitation and abuse offence . under international standard , legislation concern child sexual abuse material should be introduce or amend to incorporate technology - specific terminology and to specifically capture child sexual abuse material available online . this child sexual abuse material include live performance and , arguably , computer - generate image that have " be create with the purpose of convey the impression that they depict child . " in its recent report , " how AI be be abuse to create child sexual abuse imagery , " the Internet Watch Foundation recommend " the Ministry of Justice to commission a review of the law that apply to the removal of this content online to ensure they be fit for purpose to tackle the threat of AI CSAM . this include ensure the exchange of ' hint and tip ' and ' paedophile manual ' on how to generate this content be make illegal . " in oral evidence to the House of Lords Communications and Digital Committee , Ian Hogarth , chair of the UK ' s AI foundation model taskforce , speak of " how some of the open - source image generation model have now be fine - tune by malicious actor to generate child sexual abuse material . these system be be use for really some of the most heinous thing out there . " criminal be find new way to harm child . as technology move forward , it be right that the legislation aim at protect child from online harm must move with it . new clause 28 would clarify the definition of joint enterprise , or secondary liability , so that an individual must make a significant contribution to an offence commit by another to be criminally liable . there have be considerable discussion in the House recently on reform joint enterprise , include as a result of the tireless campaigning of my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) , who have be advance a private Member ' s Bill on this issue . it seem that the consensus from the House ' s many discussion be that reform be clearly need . there be no doubt of the injustice that have arise from the application of joint enterprise law . as my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) say in her speech on the Joint Enterprise ( Significant Contribution ) Bill , which I have just mention , joint enterprise be an important tool in our criminal justice system that have help to secure conviction that otherwise would not have be successful , include of some of the man who kill Stephen Lawrence . it have also be successfully use to prosecute paedophile ring and those who commit economic crime , but the doctrine be certainly in need of reform . labour have previously state that it would look to reform joint enterprise , and that remain our ambition . however , the Crown Prosecution Service have ongoing work to collect datum on joint enterprise prosecution . the initial tranche of datum reveal matter of huge concern . black people make up only 4 % of the UK population but , accord to the CPS , black defendant make up 30 % of the joint enterprise case load . it be also reveal that joint enterprise prosecution disproportionately affect young people and child . the data collection have now be expand into all CPS area and , to ensure that any reform have the good chance of address the ongoing issue with the application of the doctrine , it be essential that it be base on a strong evidence base . once a strong evidence base have be build up through the CPS ' s data collection , we will be well place to know how to reform the law to tackle the issue about which there be such serious cross - party concern . this amendment be reasonable and commendable but , when we take action to reform , it be important that we do it right first time . only a full picture provide by robust evidence can ensure we do that . new clause 29 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East , seek to align the definition of " human trafficking " in UK law with the UN definition . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley make the case well for this new clause in Committee , where she highlight the lack of conviction under the current framework . I hope the Minister can set out what the Government intend to do to rectify this . new clause 32 , in the name of the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) , would include offence motivate by hostility towards an individual ' s disability status , sexual orientation or transgender identity , or perception thereof , in the aggravate offence under the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 . we support the amendment all the more because it be identical to the new clause that I table in Committee , and it be Labour party policy . the amendment would address the disparity between exist characteristic and current hate crime legislation . it would create parity of maximum possible penalty for all five characteristic define under the sentencing code . under current hate crime legislation , hate crime base on race and / or religion can have high maximum penalty than their base equivalent , whereas hate crime base on sexual orientation , transgender identity and / or disability can not . this create a two - tier system of justice . the Law Commission ' s recommendation that offence motivate by hostility towards an individual ' s disability status , sexual orientation or transgender identity should be encompass within the aggravate offence under the Crime and Disorder Act . new clause 32 come in the context of soar level of hate crime reporting . over 145 , 000 case be report in 2022 - 23 . across all monitor strand of hate crime , the number of offence have soar since 2011 - 12 . racially motivated hate crime rise by over 200 % in the period , top 100 , 000 instance for the first time in 2021 - 22 . meanwhile , hate crime motivate by religion increase by a massive 433 % . hate crime motivate by sexual orientation have increase by 493 % , and hate crime motivate by transgender identity have increase by 1 , 263 % . violent crime or crime against the person rise as a proportion of hate crime offence from 29 % in 2012 - 13 to 41 % in 2022 - 23 . the number of violent hate crime have rise sixfold , from 12 , 739 to 63 , 895 in 2022 . LGBT + people and people with a disability should be able to live their life free from fear , abuse or violence . Labour have commit to take back our street and to be tough on hate crime . we will do so by strengthen and equalise the law so that every category of hate crime be treat as an aggravated offence , to ensure that everyone who fall victim to a hate crime be treat equally under the law . I hope that the Government will support new clause 32 . the Minister say in Committee that , later this year , the Government intend to publish a full response that will address each recommendation of the Law Commission ' s report , and that it would be premature to make decision before the formal Government response be publish . however , I urge the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington to stick with his new clause and to press it to a vote if it be not accept by the Government . it be always a pleasure to speak to the amendment of my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley . her tireless mission to stand up for victim in all form be respect across this House , and I think she be still due a huge number of answer from the Minister relate to her amendment , which have be retable . new clause 44 would amend section 52 and 53 of the Sexual Offences Act to replace " prostitution " with " sexual exploitation " . the reason for do so ultimately lie with shift perception . adult sexual exploitation be a form of sexual abuse that be poorly understand and rarely recognise across many sector . victim of adult sexual exploitation be falsely identify as consensually engage in sex work , and the labelling of that abuse as " prostitution " in law serve only to perpetuate it . this mislabelling have lead to countless people across the UK fall through the gap and not receive necessary support , as their experience be not recognise . new clause 45 and 46 would address the gap in law that can lead to the unjust stigmatisation and criminalisation of victim of sexual exploitation . they would do so by decriminalise conduct fall within section 1 ( 1 ) of the Street Offences Act 1959 — street prostitution offence — and by establish a mechanism to expunge criminal record for street prostitution offence . I look forward to the Minister ' s response . new clause 47 would make an aggravating factor of groom in certain adult case , include around domestic and sexual abuse . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley move her new clause in Committee and speak of how little understand the grooming of adult be , despite there be considerable overlap of perpetrator — and of perpetrator behaviour and tactic — with those see in case of child sexual grooming . Grooming be a deliberate process of limit the freedom of a person by gain control over they and create a dependency . it be widespread and prevalent in every part of the UK , but it be under - represent in UK legislation . it seem sensible to seek to put adult grooming victim on the same footing as child . I do not feel that the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Newbury address this point adequately in Committee , which be why it be important to invite further comment today . new clause 48 would classify strangulation as an aggravating factor in sentencing murder . it follow new law on non - fatal strangulation that be introduce under the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . in Committee , my hon . friend highlight that the common understanding of the role of strangulation in domestic abuse be change ; it be now understand as a form of coercive control and an accurate red - flag predicter of homicide . it be clear that there be a need for review in this area and for we to look holistically at sentencing , rather than attempt to amend the criminal justice system base on piecemeal change . on new clause 49 and 50 , the charity Centre for Women ' s Justice say that the Bill do not address the gap in law and practice that can lead to the unjust criminalisation of victim of domestic abuse and other form of violence against woman and girl and exploitation . new clause 49 would amend the law on self - defence and be model on the provision for householder in section 76 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 . it would allow survivor act in self - defence against their abuser the same protection as householder defend themselves against an intruder — in other word , this be the self - defence proposal . new clause 50 and schedule 1 would introduce a statutory defence for survivor model on section 45 of the Modem Slavery Act 2015 . it would give survivor of domestic abuse similar protection to that give to victim of trafficking who be compel to offend — this be under the section 45 proposal . research by CWJ and other have make it clear that law reform be need to address the difficulty face by victim of domestic abuse in establish reasonableness and proportionality when accuse of use force in these circumstance . again , I would welcome the Minister ' s comment on my hon . friend ' s proposal , which seek to improve the law for victim . new clause 55 deal with the offence of child criminal exploitation . there have be numerous call to do more legislatively to address that , include by create a statutory definition , over the course of this Parliament . I recall my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) speak powerfully on these issue in the Committee on the Bill that become the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 . opposition Members have be pursue the issue again through the Victims and Prisoners Bill . clearly , reform be need to tackle the appalling scale of child criminal exploitation . research carry out by the Children ' s Commissioner find that 27 , 000 child who be at high risk of gang exploitation have not be identify by service and consequently be miss out on vital support to keep they safe . the research find an even high number of child who be experience broad risk factor link to exploitation , with one in 15 teenager fall through the gap in education and social care . thousand of child be be criminally exploit , and that demand more of a response from the Government . well - reason amendment have be make to a number of Government Bills in recent year , as I have just outline . as new clause 55 , which stand in the name of the hon . member for Mole Valley ( Sir Paul Beresford ) demonstrate , they be come from across the House . so what will it take for the Government to engage constructively with member who be deeply concerned about this issue and the danger face our young constituent ? the Government should engage more constructively . new clause 57 be an interesting provision . give the increase in e - bike and cycling in general , we recognise the need for some change in this area of law . that say , we be keen to understand exactly how the provision in the new clause would work , the impact they would have and the number of potential case likely to be create . we be not sure that the new clause be fit for purpose , so we will also be interested to hear from the Minister . however , we be satisfied that this be an area in which we would wish to legislate after the general election , if we be successful . I come to the serious issue raise in new clause 59 by my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) in relation to knife crime , which destroy life , devastate family and create fear and trauma in community . many of we will have constituent who have be deeply impact by knife crime . sadly , the situation be get bad , not well . the late statistic show knife crime up again in the past year ; it be now 80 % high than it be in 2015 . the opposition have always be clear that we will work with the Government on this matter so that we can take dangerous weapon off the street and save life . in that spirit , my hon Friend table his new clause 59 , propose a ban on ninja sword . many will be shock that such weapon be not ban already . in the wrong hand , they can cause significant harm and they should be take off the street without delay . new clause 59 would introduce such a ban . of course , there be a wide point about the ease with which such weapon be buy and sell , mostly online , and then end up in the hand of young people . new clause 60 and amendment 69 , also stand in my hon . friend ' s name , seek to address that point . the prevalence of ban weapon find on online marketplace be shocking and must be tackle , yet there seem to be no accountability . we need tough criminal sanction on the senior tech executive who allow such knife sale on their online marketplace . new clause 60 would introduce such sanction . more widely , we need a complete end - to - end review of online knife sale , from the point of purchase through to delivery , particularly to strengthen ID check , and check conduct by Royal Mail and Border Force on UK - bind parcel . unfortunately , we be see too many gap and loophole in effort to tackle knife crime . we need to identify and deal with they before they be exploit far . amendment 69 will place a duty on the Secretary of State to conduct such a review and begin that process . take together , new clause 59 and 60 and amendment 69 form part of Labour ' s plan to tackle the scourge of knife crime on the street . as I have say , the opposition will work with the Government on the issue . young life depend on it . I hope we can make progress on this soon . new clause 91 and 92 , in the name of the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) , create an offence of fail to meet pollution performance commitment level for water quality and address individual senior manager responsibility — I speak of that early . it be Labour policy to bring forward legislation to strengthen the law in this area . we would put the water company under special measure ; strengthen regulation so that lawbreake water boss face criminal charge ; and give the regulator new power to block the payment of bonus until water boss have clean up their filth . we would also end self - monitoring ; force all company to monitor every single water outlet , so that company can no long cover up illegal sewage dumping ; and introduce severe and automatic fine , which no water boss can ignore , for illegal sewage discharge . we feel that these new clause be too narrow , but we will legislate in government . in conclusion , I wish to pose a few question to the Minister . what impact will the provision in the Bill have on the criminal justice system and , in particular , our crisis - hit Prison Service ? as I say at the outset , many of the Government ' s own new clause and amendment do not arrive until a few day before today ' s Report stage . what impact assessment have be carry out and when can we expect to see it ? may I remind the Government that we be still wait on the economic impact assessment for the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act , which receive Royal Assent two year ago ? finally , let I again address the prison crisis . some of the propose sentence in the Bill be number in month . how do that sit with the Government ' s position on the presumption against short sentence and their current policy of give a host of prisoner up to 70 day off their sentence so they can make way for new one ? clearly , Ministers have a balance act to perform , but despite the merit of some of the clause in the Bill , they be create more problem without solution far down the system . however , we look forward to the Bill progressing and to day two of our proceeding , assume , of course , that that will actually come before the general election . rise — before we proceed , I would like to make a couple of observation . these be very serious and sensitive issue that deserve , and be clearly go to get , proper debate . in his closing remark , the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) indicate that there be two day for this debate . early , an hon . member intervene on the Minister to raise a subject that she have not comment upon . there be a good reason for that : it be list not on the order paper for today but on the order paper for the second day . I ask hon . member to make quite sure that , when they be discuss these issue , they be discuss those list on the order paper for today , in the understanding that there will be a second day . there be 18 hon . member wish to speak . I may have miss one , so there may be more . at the moment , we have plenty of time but may I gently urge conciseness rather than self - indulgence ? that relate particularly to intervention , which should be intervention and not speech . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . I rise to speak to amendment 160 , table in my name and support by member of the Women and Equalities Committee , and other colleague across the House . I will endeavour to be as brief as I can and I reassure everybody that the amendment be on the order paper for today . I thank my hon . friend the Minister for her comment on deepfake . there have be a problem : someone like Taylor Swift can get a deepfake make use their image take down very quickly , but for ordinary woman , or indeed man , from across the UK , who be not famous and do not have a platform , it be very difficult to get deepfake imagery remove . I welcome the step the Government be take on that . I thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) , for his comment about the amendment . I be not aware that the opposition be plan to support it , so I thank he for that . I urge my hon . friend the Minister to pay close attention to what I and other member of my Select Committee will say about the amendment . I recognise that the amendment come at the eleventh hour , on Report , for which I apologise to my hon . friend . the reason for that be specifically because of the evidence the Committee hear last week , both in private and in public , from victim of revenge porn . I welcome the change that have be bring in under the Online Safety Act to support victim of non - consensual intimate image abuse . however , from the evidence we hear , it be clear that the legislation , in its current form , do not go far enough . it do not give Ofcom the tooth it need to effectively tackle the fast - spread , uncontrollable virus that be non - consensual intimate image abuse . it do not force platform to remove harmful content in its entirety , or require internet service provider to block access to it . in short , it do not make the content itself illegal . the sharing of it be illegal but , even if there be a criminal conviction , the content itself be not regard as illegal content . last week , the Women and Equalities Committee hear from a number of survivor of non - consensual intimate image abuse . in share their experience with we , they have speak of the catastrophic damage the abuse have have on their life , confidence and relationship . they tell we of their fear of apply for job , meet new people or dare to have any social medium presence at all . with all their case , there be a common theme : even though they have secure a conviction against their perpetrator , their non - consensual content continue to circulate on the internet . despite relentless work by organisation , such as the Revenge Porn Helpline , to report the content and get it take down , there be no legal obligation for platform to remove it . I thank my right hon . friend the Chair of the Select Committee for make an excellent point , which support the point I make early . if the Bill have a consent - base creation offence in it , that would outlaw the image that the people she be talk about find so difficult to get off the internet . surely the Bill provide the opportunity to introduce a consent - base creation offence , rather than the current proposal that potentially provide lot of loophole , particularly to online app , to use intention to try to evade the long arm of the law . my right hon . friend ' s point be exactly right that the issue be consent . in my view , when image be non - consensual , they should be regard in the same way as if the individual have be digitally rape . there be also many thousand of case where a conviction have not be achieve or even seek , where the victim just want the content take down or block . they too be be deny that peace of mind due to gap in the current legislative framework . the amendment call for non - consensual intimate photograph or film to be add to the list of " priority offence " in the Online Safety Act , thus make it " priority illegal content " . the amendment would ensure that non - consensual content , regardless of whether or not a conviction have be achieve , would be , by its non - consensual intimate nature , illegal . it would place duty on platform to remove it , and require internet service provider to block access to non - compliant site and platform , include those host outside the UK . that be precisely the way in which child sexual abuse material be handle . child can not provide consent and the adult in these image have not provide their consent for they to be take , share or both , so why should the content be treat so differently ? indeed , when the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Kirsten Oswald ) put it to my hon . friend the Minister during her recent appearance before my Committee , that adult content should be handle in the same way as child sexual abuse material , via a registry to identify , classify and therefore allow for the removal of non - consensual intimate image , the Minister say it would be " a very good idea " . in order to do that , we need to make the content illegal . it be important to note that intimate imagery do not just refer to photo and video that be sexually explicit . indeed , as we hear from David Wright , chief executive of South West Grid for Learning , which run the Revenge Porn Helpline , within certain country and culture , be photograph with an arm around somebody or be film without a hijab can have catastrophic implication for a woman . that be why it be so important that any legislative change use the term " intimate " , not " sexual " , when refer to non - consensual content . last week , we hear evidence from Georgia Harrison , who famously be the victim of revenge porn perpetrate by she then partner , Stephen Bear , who later receive a criminal conviction for his action and be send to prison . Georgia make the point repeatedly that what happen be like " a house fire " , because when the image go up they spread very quickly . the solution be to get they take down as quickly as possible so that they would not proliferate . the Committee describe it as be like a virus that spread out of control . the issue be not just about Georgia Harrison or famous woman who have a platform they can use to ensure their voice be hear . we also hear from an anonymous victim of Operation Makedom . in that case , the perpetrator have many thousand of victim . he receive a 32 - year prison sentence , but that young woman be too afraid to have any sort of social medium presence because she be terrified that her image will be see and put through reverse image search so she will be identify as a victim . thousand and thousand of the Operation Makedom image still proliferate online and nothing can be do about that because the content itself be not illegal . it remain online and accessible for people in the UK , despite that 32 - year prison sentence . that can not be right . we will be let down the victim of that abuse , and all other case of non - consensual intimate image abuse , if we fail to act . my final point to the Minister be that we also hear about the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority and the fact that intimate image abuse be not on its list as a violent crime . when someone apply to the authority , expect or hope for some small nugget of compensation — a message in effect that they be a victim , they can put the blame and shame to one side , and they have be a victim of a criminal act — that be not even there for they . I have no doubt that be because the list of violent criminal offence be dream up many moon ago and intimate image abuse simply have not be add to it . it should be add to the list . as I say early , for a woman , or indeed a man , who have have their intimate image put online , circulate freely and proliferate all over the place , that be like digital rape . it be a rape that continue day after day , to be brutally honest , with no end in sight . those be the reason why my Committee have table this amendment and why we urge member to support it and give it serious consideration . I hope that my hon . friend the Minister will be able to make some comment from the Dispatch Box that might indicate how the MOJ can incorporate such provision into exist law . if the message come back to I be that the content be already illegal , I must say that it be not . we must find well way of get it down from online platform . I call the Liberal Democrat spokesman . it be a pleasure to serve under your guidance this afternoon , Mr Deputy Speaker . I also will seek to be brief and will principally speak to the two amendment in my name . let I first say that I fully support new clause 86 , endorse by the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) . likewise , I pay tribute to the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) , and support her new clause 9 on one - punch manslaughter . again , stick with those on the Conservative Benches , I support amendment 32 to 41 from the hon . member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) , cover the issue of spiking , which be an incredibly serious offence . there be many on the Opposition Benches to whom I could also refer , but I will not do so because of time . I support new clause 35 in the name of the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) , which cover the offence of fail to stop at a traffic accident and seek to close a loophole to ensure that justice be do . let I now focus on new clause 91 and 92 in my name . new clause 91 create the criminal offence of fail to meet pollution performance commitment , and new clause 92 would make senior manager criminally liable for such an offence . if there be any doubt at all that these new clause be need , they should have be dispel by a quick look at the news early today . we have reveal — this be discover by some of we only yesterday — that , early this year , 10 million litre of raw sewage be dump into England ' s large and most popular lake , windermere , at the heart of my constituency and our community in Westmoreland . this incident happen for 10 hour . United Utilities do not alert the Environment Agency for 13 hour . the outrageous scale of this incident bring into question the extent to which the current framework be adequate . this be a personal issue to we . this be a lake at the centre of the Lake district ' s hospitality and tourism economy , which bring in 20 million visitor every year — the big number of visitor to any part of the United Kingdom outside London . we be proud of that . it be an industry that employ 60 , 000 people , worth £ 3 . 5 billion to the local economy and contribute hugely to the national economy . the fact that this be permit at the heart of the jewel in the crown of our tourism economy in this country be an utter outrage . the ecological side of it be even more utterly , utterly appalling . the revelation of the past day or so have prove that the regulatory framework be utterly and totally broken , so the call for these new clause for and the creation of criminal liability in this case be absolutely 100 % justify . the offence that I have just speak about be the tip of the iceberg . I shall talk principally about my own water company in the north - west of England , United Utilities . that company spill sewage 97 , 000 time for almost 700 , 000 hour . there be two site on the river Kent at Kendal ; one spill sewage on 42 occasion , and the other on 69 occasion . the River Eea at Cark on the Cartmel peninsula , near Grange - over - Sands , see the most egregious example in the whole of the north - west of England : sewage be spill 281 time for 6 , 471 hour last year . the River Eden at Kirkby Stephen see 172 spill for 3 , 225 hour . at beautiful Coniston water , which have just celebrate be give bathing water status at four site only the other day — I pay tribute to local councillor Suzanne Pender and the local parish council for achieve that really important classification — there be 178 sewage spill in 2023 on 141 day . across all the water company in England , there be 464 , 000 separate spill in 2023 . that be a 54 % increase on 2022 . the water company and , indeed , Ministers themselves say that that be because it rain more last year — not 54 % more it didn ' t . these spill be unjustifiable . we be leave in a situation where only 14 % of England ' s river be at an ecologically good standard . of all of the river in England , not one — a fat zero per cent — be of a good chemical standard . my new clause , which create a criminal offence , be necessary , because the regulatory framework be fail . regulator have repeatedly let the water company off the hook , and the datum that they have to work on be incomplete . minister will say , and rightly , that until relatively recently there be not a lot of datum available , and that monitoring do not happen . but who do the monitoring ? the water company do the monitoring ; they mark their own homework . the Environment Agency , which be underfunde and the victim of many cut over many year by this government , be oblige to come out and inspect at a spill site only if the water company invite it to do so . how ridiculous and how weak be that ? ofwat ' s attempt to tackle egregious act by the water company be inadequate . they be too little and too late . for instance , Ofwat have drag its foot to get around to merely consult on plan to ban bonus — perhaps sometime next year — with only the outside possibility that this could come into force . a process that River Action , an excellent campaign organisation , rightly describe as far too slow . again , Ofwat have take until now to consider fine of up to 10 % of water company ' turnover for the bad form of poor customer service . why so long ? why only now ? the Office for Environmental Protection find that the Government be set to miss their 2027 target to improve the state of England ' s river , lake and coastal area by a " significant margin " . in the liberal Democrat policy paper , " be you drink what we be drink ? " , we propose a new regulator , with new power to issue fine to top executive and to initiate proceeding . give that we be where we be , I simply ask the House to consider new clause 91 and 92 as a crucial way of be able to tackle the most egregious act of sewage dumping in our lake , river and coastal waterway . for those of we in and around the English Lake district , this matter be personal . it be offensive to we . we consider ourselves — if it be not too grand to say this — as custodian of England ' s Lake district . we be protect the area not for we , but for the whole country , the world , the generation who come after we , and the people who will make use of Lake Windemere and the ecology that it support at the heart of the stunning beauty of the Lake district , which be after all a world heritage site . we be determined to tackle this problem . I pay tribute to all of those who campaign on this issue , include Matt Staniek and all those involve in the Save Windermere campaign , and other who be determined to make a difference . citizen science project go on in the Rivers Kent and Eden be equally important . they be more low - key , but be absolutely vital to try to get to the heart of the problem . however , all the datum in the world will not solve this problem if we do not have the law to prevent what be happen and to hold people to account . the regulatory framework have fail windermere , the Lake district , Westmorland , Cumbria and the whole of our country . now be the time to criminalise those who callously disregard the regulation and pollute our waterway . I be grateful to the Government for sign new clause 62 which I and my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) first table . we be both grateful to our hon . friend the Member for South Basildon and East Thurrock ( Stephen Metcalfe ) who move a similar amendment in Committee . this be distress subject matter for an amendment to a Bill , and we regret have to bring it to the attention of the House . it relate to a criminal trial in 2021 , when David Fuller , as the Minister mention , be convict of the murder of two young woman in Tunbridge Wells — Wendy Knell and Caroline Pierce — in the 1980 . that recent conviction follow a forensic lead that eventually lead to his identification . in the course of the police ' s gathering of evidence for his murder conviction , for which he receive a whole - life tariff , video recording that Fuller make of himself be find . for context , Fuller be an electrician whose employment by the Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust give he access to hospital mortuary , in which he film himself sexually assault the dead body of woman and girl . there be over 100 female victim of such abuse in the film discover in his possession . they range in age from nine to 100 . some of Fuller ' s conviction be for the offence of sexually penetrate dead body , which under the current law carry a maximum sentence of only two year in prison . as I say , it so happen that he receive a whole - life tariff for two particularly abhorrent murder for which he be convict , but have that not be the case , the maximum sentence available would have be two year for each offence . the evidence gather by the police show that Fuller also seriously sexually assault victim in non - penetrative way . I will not go into detail , but I can tell the House that those crime be extensive and grave . give that 100 victim be identifiable , more than 33 member of this House , spread right across the country , have in their constituency the family of victim who be know to the police and to the NHS trust . all Fuller ' s crime be frankly unspeakable , but as well as the current sentencing limit be absurdly inadequate to deal with , in effect , the rape of dead body , the law do not cover any form of sexual assault that be non - penetrative . in her opening speech , the Minister refer to its being unusual for the House to consider an area of criminal law that simply have not be address before . there be clearly a gap that I hope all member will agree need to be close . that be what we aim to do with the new clause . this be one of the most harrowing piece of casework that I have be involve in during my 14 year in this House . my right hon . friend will remember that the gap , as he have just refer to it , be identify to we by one of the police officer who be involve in the horrific task of go through the evidence , and who say that the case shake he to the core , as I be sure it would many people . will my right hon . friend join I in pay tribute to the police officer , and of course the civilian who support they in go through the evidence at a forensic level , which I be sure many of we could not compute , and certainly could not comprehend ? I completely share my hon . friend ' s desire to pay tribute to the police officer who bring this gap in the law to our attention , to all his colleague who have the painful duty of view the image , and more generally to the family liaison officer who have to support the 100 family of the victim , and indeed the staff of the Maidstone and Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust , who — know , in many case , this individual — be devastate to discover what have go on , completely unknown to they . the new clause will make an important change to the law . it will increase the maximum sentence for the sexual penetration of a dead body from two year to seven year , and create a new offence of sexual activity with a corpse , which will carry a maximum sentence of five year to cover non - penetrative offence . victim of Fuller be rob of their life and then their dignity , and the victim ' family have be rob of adequate justice . the devastation of the family of Fuller ' s victim have be heartbreaking , as my hon . friend and other colleague will know . they suffer the death of their daughter , sister , niece , aunt , wife , mother and grandmother . then , have lay they to rest and grieve for their lost life , hundred receive a knock on the door one night from the police , who have to tell they that the body of a person who be so precious to they have be desecrate in the most sickening way by this vile individual , in a place — a hospital mortuary — that they think be sacrosanct , safe and protect . many will never get over the shock and disgust that they feel when that news be impart to they that evening ; it stay with they , even now . nor , as my hon . Friend say , will the police officer get over have to view every second of hundred of hour of video show the most depraved image that they have ever be confront with . as my hon . Friend say , one of the officer be in touch with we , and call on we to close this gap in the law . he , his colleague , and the family of the victim will never have restore to they the peace of mind that Fuller destroy . the family ' memory of their love one will be forever taint by association with the thought of what Fuller do to they . sadly , we can not correct that in this House , but we can ensure that the gravity of these offence be recognise . I be grateful to the Minister for support our new clause , and give it the Government ' s backing . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker . I thank the right hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) for speak on the issue . for those of we who be on the Bill Committee — many of we be present today — it be in many case quite distress to hear of the experience that so many people have have over the year . it be a tribute to member present , include those who be on the Committee , that they be here to listen to those experience . my new clause 35 and 36 relate to traffic collision . new clause 35 be intend to require driver who be involve in a collision with a pedestrian , cyclist or motorcyclist to remain at the scene of the collision and report it to the police , or face the consequence of their decision not to . new clause 36 would reduce the amount of time that the driver involve have to report the collision from 24 hour to two hour . technology have move on . the provision for 24 hour be an old element of the Road Traffic Act 1988 . everybody have the capacity to report thing very quickly . I thank hon . member who put their name to my new clause . as I say , I sit on the Bill Committee for several week . we go through it line by line , and as I indicate , we listen to harrowing and distressing account of the experience of victim — victim who literally go from the cradle to the grave . we have hear that again today . colleague who speak in Committee will no doubt bring those account to the attention of a wide audience of hon . member today . we have just hear one such example . those account be worth listen to . for my part , I bring to the attention of colleague my reason for table my two new clause ; the group that have support I in do so inclue RoadPeace , Cycling UK and Action Vision Zero . there be a Westminster Hall debate on 15 November 2021 about two petition that have gather more than 100 , 000 and 165 , 000 name respectively , call for tough sentence for , as they be colloquially know , hit - and - run driver who cause death , and for the offence of cause death by dangerous driving to be widen to include a failure to stop , call 999 and render aid on scene until further help arrive . the Department for Transport say in response to the petition : " the Government take this issue seriously . the Department for Transport be look into the issue of such incident of failure to stop result in death or serious injury , and explore whether there be further option that can be pursue . " that be well over two year ago . what have the Government do in response ? what have the Department for Transport do ? it appear to I to be not a great deal . I raise the issue of leave the scene of a collision in the Bill Committee early this year . I do not push my new clause to a vote then , because I understand that either the Ministry of Justice or the Department for Transport be work on the matter , and could be liaise on it , especially as the Department for Transport have already recognise that some assessment of the situation must be undertake , and have ostensibly commit to do that . Lord Paddick in the other place withdraw an amendment on 8 November 2021 to the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Bill that would have amend the Road Traffic Act 1988 because Baroness Williams of Trafford say that her ministerial colleague at the Department for Transport understand the concern raise and be " explore option … include … the available penalty and how the offence operate as part of long - term and wide work on road safety . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 11 November 2021 ; Vol . 815 , c . 1557 . ] I write to the Minister early this year to say that I be not tie to the letter of my new clause and the penalty therein , but I do not appear to have receive a response , which be regrettable . if I do receive a response , I apologise , but I do not believe that I do . I assume there be some liaison between department on the matter . in Committee , I set out in a bit more detail why I be pursue this issue . I go back to the point about how long it have be since the Government have move on their position . it be 10 year since they say that they would undertake a full review of traffic offence . regrettably , that have not happen , yet there seem to be an irrefutable case for it . what will it take for the Government to look at these issue affect our constituent ? I offer hon . member a few stat , to put this matter into context . every 16 minute , someone be kill or seriously injure on the road in the United Kingdom . that be a stark figure . if we average that out , it mean that over 10 year , 31 , 000 man , woman and child have be kill or seriously injure in collision , and there have be a total of 130 , 000 casualty right across the piece , although I accept that the number include very minor collision . in a year , 1 , 766 people be kill — 1 , 711 in Britain and 55 in Northern Ireland — and 28 , 941 be seriously injure . road death have increase to pre - pandemic level , and serious injury be up 8 % . I stand to be correct on these figure , but that be an average of 85 people kill or seriously injure every year in each of our constituency . meanwhile , many driver simply leave the scene of the collision — as many as 17 , 000 people , accord to the Motor Insurers Bureau . not all those case result in injury or fatality , but there be family who know that their son , daughter , husband , brother , sister or relative be leave on the road , dead or die , by someone who just decide to go off . if a person decide to drive away and leave somebody dead or seriously injure on the road , they must face the consequence of their decision — that seem pretty simple — and explain in due course why they leave the scene of the crime . whatever the reason be , they must face the consequence for do what they do . in Committee , I ask whether I need to give hon . member example of what family have have to go through . I do not want to , because it be harrowing and distress enough to hear about they , as the right hon . member for Tunbridge Wells will know from the case he mention . there be huge number of example , and I do not want to repeat they . People know ; they do not need thing draw out graphically . I repeat what I say in Committee : how would we reply to a constituent who say that we have the power to take action ? would we say , " it ' s a shame , but there ' s nothing much I can do about this . I ' m sorry to hear that " ? what if our constituent say , " you have the power , the capacity and the wherewithal to change this " ? would we just shrug that off and say , " nothing to do with I . I ' m sorry ; there ' s nothing I can do " ? would we sit there in silence ? would we look at the datum and the information ? what would we do ? well , I know what I want to do . I want to try to change the law , so that those who leave other dead and die in the road be hold to account , and face up to their action . it be our solemn duty to protect our constituent . if we can not protect they from people who decide to leave they dead or die , we must at least try to send a message , for the sake of their family , who seek not retribution , but justice . that be what I want to do . I will finish with a study by Dr Matt Hopkins at the University of Leicester , who interview dozen of hit - and - run driver about why they fail to stop . a fair proportion of hit - and - run collision , as they be call , involve driver who do not have valid insurance and often do not have a valid licence . other be ban from drive at the time of the collision . still other be under the influence of drink and drug . they be try to avoid responsibility , not just for potentially kill someone , but for be drunk or on drug , or whatever it be . I understand that people might leave in a state of panic , but they must none the less face up to their responsibility . new clause 35 and 36 be an attempt to send the message out — not in a super - dup emotional way ; I be not try to threaten — that if a driver , whatever the circumstance , decide to leave the scene of an accident , they must face the consequence . I be not wed to the sentence be five or six year in prison , or to the amount of the fine ; we can debate and have dialogue about that — or I hope that we would , but regrettably we have not . that be why I bring the new clause back today . I have not say that I will push they to a vote ; I do not want to . I just want people to bear they in mind , and to think about the impact that such action have on family . those people must be hold to account . I know that this place can have a reputation for be home to nothing more than Punch and Judy politic , but in debate like these , we see the good of this House , as people raise their experience and those of their constituent , and work , often in a cross - party fashion , to bring forward change to legislation that will have the right sort of tangible impact for everyone across our country . on that basis , I will support a number of amendment , include those of my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) , and , of course , the new clause that my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) and my hon . friend the Member for Chatham and Aylesford ( Dame Tracey Crouch ) table in Committee , which I be glad the Government accept . it will be of no surprise to anybody in the House that I rise today to speak to new clause 9 . before I go any far , I thank the Minister for her kind word about my dad . I hope that she will not mind my say that her own father — her constituency predecessor — would , I be sure , be incredibly proud of the work that she be do in her ministerial post and in her constituency . I hope that the House will forgive and indulge I as I tell — hopefully for one last time in the Chamber — the story of my dad . Dominic Davison be a 35 - year - old self - employ stonemason , a brilliant dad , a brilliant family man and a great friend to all who know he . on a Friday night in 2007 , he go to the pub with his friend and never come home . regrettably , he be involve in an altercation that result in his receive one fatal blow to the head — a blow so significant that he be dead before he even hit the ground . that be why I have dedicate much of my campaigning time since then to try prevent other family from have to go through the horror and shock that my family have to go through . however , today be not about my dad , I or my family . as I have campaign , this issue have transform from something deeply personal into something much great ; it be about the resilience of all the family who have experience such horrific tragedy and have push through , and who be now campaign for change . it be only right that I pay tribute to the incredible work of Maxine Thompson - Curl and her partner , Tony , who run the one Punch UK charity , base in the brilliant north - east . that initiative come from another terrible tragedy . Maxine have long speak of the story of her son Kristian , who be in his late teen when he die . as the designated driver — a great lad — he have go to pick up his mate from a nightclub , and go to the loo while they be finish their drink . a guy approach he in the toilet and ask whether he have a cigarette . he say no . the result be that Kristian receive a single blow to the head . he fall over and hit his head on the ground , and be in a coma for , I believe , about 10 month before regrettably pass away . Maxine have dedicate her entire life since then to campaign not only for improvement to the criminal justice system , but for improved awareness more broadly , so that few people out there feel that the first step they should take if they be aggravate or frustrated be to raise their fist . the work of one Punch UK include go into school to talk to young people about the danger that can arise from that one split - second moment of silly action , which can ruin not only the life of those who lose their love one , but the life of the person who throw that blow . I commend those at the charity for their work . in talk to family from right across the country , in constituency far and wide , we have pull out a few key theme on where the system be not work as it should and as many of we would expect . regrettably , the core theme be sentence . there be a few case that I can raise . shaun Hardy ' s perpetrator receive sentence of just 27 month , Lee Burns ' s perpetrator receive a two - year suspend sentence , and Robert Holland ' s receive a sentence of three and a half year . there have in recent year be improvement to the length of sentence pass , but even now , it be believe that the average sentence for take a life through that kind of violent punch be around four year . the question that we in this House must ask ourselves be : what be the price of a life ? what be the price of lose a love one ? I can safely say from experience that no sentence will ever be enough to make up for the tragedy , trauma and anguish face by individual who have lose love one like that , but four year be not justice ; it be nothing short of insult . I table new clause 9 to improve sentencing , not just to bring a sense of justice for the family impact by these horrific crime , but to improve faith in our wide criminal justice system , which we know be face difficulty among member of the public . the new clause be base on legislation introduce in a number of australian state . we have use very similar wording to try to make it as specific as possible . I be incredibly grateful for the engagement from the Ministry of Justice and the Home Office , include from the Secretary of State for Justice , the Home Secretary and , of course , my hon . friend the Minister . I appreciate their concern about create discrepancy in the law — for example , our new clause talk specifically about a punch , so if someone be to be slap forcefully and fall over backwards , the clause would not apply . of course , I do not want to allow emotion to dominate when we be ultimately here in this House as legislator to make the good law and have the good possible impact for our constituent . I have be very grateful for the strong level of engagement throughout my campaign on one - punch awareness . I and one Punch UK offer our thank to the Government , and to Members right across the House who have get involve in our campaign , come to our awareness day and sign amendment to improve thing for family go through these horrific tragedy , for their engagement . I do not intend to press my new clause to a vote because the Government have — again , I be grateful for this — come forward with a wonderful package of measure that we believe will make a brilliant and tangible difference for the family impact by such horrendous tragedy . for example , we have be offer a full review of low - culpability homicide , take into account not just single punch but any single blow and other such crime , to look at whether or not a sentencing review be need . of course , we would like that review to get start as quickly as possible , and I know that the Minister recognise the urgency with which we have be campaign on this matter . I and one Punch UK look forward to work with she and the Victims ' commissioner to get that review under way ; I will be on their back , make sure that it be a strong review with strong recommendation , and will be push for the Government to accept the recommendation at the end of the process . sentencing itself be only part of the picture , because one of the difficulty we have experience be the expectation gap in sentencing . let we go on a journey from the perspective of someone whose love one be lose . the first moment be the knock on the door to say that your loved one have be kill , and the second moment be learn the reason why . the third moment be learn that the case be go to go to a criminal trial . at that point , in your mind , it do not matter what rational explanation you have be give : your loved one have be murder , so your expectation be that a murder charge will be bring and the defendant will go away for life . it be emotional — it be not rational — but that be the true experience of victim . to then find out that a low charge of manslaughter will be put forward and that the charge will be low - culpability manslaughter , mean that the average sentence will be more along the line of four year , be an incredibly difficult journey for any victim to go on . most good , law - abide family do not have intense experience of the criminal justice system , nor should they . as such , one of the thing we have be push for be a single point of contact specialise in one - punch assault , to be that hand - hold guide from day one through to the trial and beyond , so that those expectation can be deal with right from the get - go , in order to avoid that horrific expectation gap and the feeling of betrayal by the criminal justice system . on that basis , I be incredibly pleased that the Government have appoint Rob Kirby to that role as part of the National Police Chiefs ' Council . I look forward to meet he and work with he to design his workstream , to make sure that we get that work under way as soon as possible . ultimately , the end goal be to stop as many family as possible from have to go through that journey in the future . Awareness be absolutely key , and once more I must praise the work of one Punch UK . it go into school and educate young people , and it go into prison and talk to perpetrator about how they can turn their life around . there be an individual who I must also praise . his name be Jacob Dunne . Jacob be a perpetrator who throw a single punch and go to prison . he turn his life around , and he now fight for restorative justice — he himself go and speak to young adult who have make bad choice to encourage they that there be a well way . recently , he have work with James Graham to produce a play at the Nottingham Playhouse call " Punch " , which I be look forward to see tomorrow — well , I say that . I imagine it be go to be intensely emotional , but I do look forward to see it , because I think it will be a really positive step in raise awareness and hopefully discourage anyone else from raise their fist at the wrong moment . on the point of raise awareness , once again I be very grateful to the Ministry of Justice and the Home Office for commit to fund a further tranche of the Walk Away campaign . that be a public awareness campaign , and they be allow I to help co - design it alongside one Punch UK , to make sure we spread the message to the maximum possible number of people that raise your fist be not the right answer . once again , I be very grateful to all colleague who sign new clause 9 . I would of course have like it to be accept and to see it pass , but all of we in this place know that we can not let the perfect get in the way of the good . if someone have tell I at the start of this campaign that we would achieve what we have manage to achieve today , I would have bite their arm off . I be recently ask whether I consider this package of measure to be my legacy ; I absolutely do not , mainly because I be not go to stop campaign on this issue even when I have leave this place . it be the legacy of all those family who have lose love one , of all those campaigner who have fight for change and , of course , of my dad Dominic . I know that he would be as grateful as I be to the Government for the positive step that they have bring forward today . rise — I will call member whose amendment have be select for separate decision first . I call Jess Phillips . I be not expect it to be I — thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have table amendment . I be sure everybody in this House will be delighted to hear that I will not be push all of they to a vote , because we could be here all night if I do . many people have put in a great amount of work , include the previous speaker , the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) . I wonder whether , in she sum up , the Minister could give we some idea of whether the Bill will ever make it on to the statute book , because we be all work hard to put thing into law , but we potentially have just 12 week leave in this place , and it be a pretty long Bill to get through the Lords . I be worried about progress be stall and about whether we be waste our breath , but here I be and I will waste mine . new clause 44 , which stand in my name , seek to replace the term " control prostitution for gain " with " sexual exploitation of an adult " , and to provide a definition of adult exploitation in the Sexual Offences Act 2003 . in 2015 , a significant change be make through the Serious Crime Act , whereby " control a child prostitute or a child involve in pornography " be replace with the term " sexual exploitation of a child " . child who be once label prostitute be recognise as be child who have be groom and abuse , and who be in desperate need of support . unfortunately , no such change occur for adult victim of sexual exploitation . I note the early conversation on the issue of cuckooing , and the importance of understanding that a person can be groom and coerce . the people who rent or own property in that circumstance would be adult , so we do recognise that adult can be groom ; it just be not reflect in our law . in fact , new clause 47 , which also stand in my name , talk about that as well . sexual exploitation occur when individual or a group take advantage of an imbalance of power to coerce , manipulate or deceive a person into sexual activity . that be often do in exchange for something that the victim need or want , and it will disproportionately benefit the perpetrator . the impact on life be devastating . one case study from the stage group highlight the sudden change in perception of sexual exploitation as a person reach adulthood : " Meena be 15 when she be introduce to her perpetrator . he begin … supply she with alcohol and drug to the point she develop a dependency on alcohol . he use her fear around shame as a form of control to ensure she do not speak out about the abuse he would subject she to . between the age of 15 - 18 Meena be see as a victim of CSE and professional do all they could to safeguard she . at 18 the exploitation be continue . however , since move into adult service the police and adult social care have question whether Meena be just make unwise choice and whether she be get something out of these exchange … Meena have a miss episode . she be locate follow a sexual assault . however , the respond police officer inform " her support worker " that this experience can not be sexual exploitation because Meena be over 18 . " the lack of a legal definition and the continue label of sexual exploitation of adult as " control prostitution for gain " have lead to the continue abuse of countless woman like Meena and to the lack of response from safeguard agency . new clause 44 would play a vital role in change the perception of adult victim of exploitation . as I have say , new clause 47 would make an aggravating factor of the grooming in these case — adult case — just as we do in case of childhood sexual exploitation . since 2019 , the STAGE partnership against adult sexual exploitation , which I declare I be the chair of , have support over 700 adult woman who have experience grooming , and that be just in the north - east and Yorkshire . stage ' s work have confirm that grooming be a common technique use to manipulate people for sexual exploitation . there be considerable overlap in the perpetrator ' behaviour and tactic with those see in case of child sexual grooming , and it have a devastating negative impact on people ' s ability to consent and make capacitate decision . it be a deliberate process of limit the freedom of a person by gain control over they and create dependency . however , for adult who have experience grooming , it be often reduce to make poor life choice because of the belief that groom can only happen to child . adult victim of groom be repeatedly ask victim - blame question such as , " why do you get back in the car ? why do you stay with they ? why didn ' t you leave ? " I do not know if member of this House have see the tv programme " Baby Reindeer " , but it be one of the good example I have ever see . it be interesting because it be about a man , and I therefore think that , as a nation , we might be more ready to believe it . there be an incident where he go back to somebody with more power than he , who have a hold over he in his career and be feed he drug for dependency . he go back , but under our current law he would not be consider to have be groom . that would not be a mitigate factor in any case that he could take . if he be a child , it would be a mitigate factor — nobody be argue against that . the hon . Lady be make an important point . all of this come back to how we view vulnerability , because it display itself in very different way . in almost all these case , there be some base vulnerability , and a drug addict or a person who have be accuse of various thing realise that , on balance , they have well do what they be tell or coerce into . that be the real point , be it not ? I absolutely agree , and it can truly happen to anybody — we have see how people even in this House can be coerce into thing . it be dangerous . if there be criminal charge for blackmail , sexual violence or whatever against a person , groom should be an aggravating factor , regardless of age , on the basis — as the right hon . Gentleman rightly say — of a differential of vulnerability . until groom of adult be recognise in legislation , it will continue to be misunderstood by law enforcement and the criminal justice system , and victim will not be adequately protect . new clause 45 would essentially decriminalise the offence of loitering or solicit for the purpose of prostitution , and repeal section 1 of the Street Offences Act 1959 . ten of thousand of sex trade survivor who be convict of that offence endure violence and abuse from punter and pimp , or they be criminalise for offence arise from their exploitation . the exploiter and abuser remain at liberty , continue to offend , while we criminalise the victim . in one case I be tell of , a young woman be 15 when she be first exploit into prostitution by a man pose as her boyfriend . he become her pimp , and as well as sexually abuse she himself , he make her sell sex on the street where she often fear for her life . for year she suffer violence and abuse from her pimp and punter , and be regularly arrest by the police while they exchange friendly greeting with her pimp — that , by the way , be essentially protect under the law in our land at the moment , which need some heavy review . as a consequence of that history , which date back to the 1980 , she have 39 conviction for soliciting and loitering , which will remain on her record for life , despite she have exit prostitution more than 30 year ago . she be one of thousand of woman who have live through that experience . time have change . those in much of street prostitution be now widely understand to be the victim , and they be usually no long arrest . the new clause would provide the necessary recognition that woman convict of such offence be not criminal . it would ensure that the UK complie with international human right obligation to woman exploit in prostitution , and it would replicate the majority of Council of Europe state that have fully legalise or decriminalised prostitution , or adopt the sex buyer model , which decriminalise only those exploit and not those who profit or benefit from prostitution . new clause 46 , which be connect to new clause 45 , would create a mechanism for those who receive conviction for loitering and solicit for the purpose of prostitution to have they disregarded . we have see quite a push in the House regard the criminalisation of people from the Post Office and — quite rightly — to have those conviction quash . I be ask we to consider those young child and very vulnerable woman who be criminalise , because that will remain on their criminal record until the survivor reach the age of 100 . it mean that woman who be convict continue to be disadvantage by the mandatory retention of such record , as a result of be historically subject to violence and exploitation . despite recent change to the disclosure regime , woman be still at risk of those record be disclose in certain circumstance . in the Post Office drama , one woman could not go into her kid ' s school to do a painting session . we be talk about woman who have be exploit not be able to go into our kid ' school . new clause 48 argue that strangulation should be see as an aggravating factor in the sentencing of murderer , and the Minister seek to address some of these issue . work with many family of murder woman , many of they speak to I of the horror of how their love one be kill by strangulation . strangulation be not a weapon . weapon have different sentencing regime , and in this instance , a man ' s strength be their weapon ; he bring a weapon by bring the strength to strangle and kill somebody . we have go over the debate and the amazing work of Carole Gould and Julie Devey look at the differentiation between those who kill a stranger or anyone in the street with a knife get a 25 - year minimum sentence , and someone who kill their wife with a knife in their home get a 15 - year minimum sentence . that be fundamentally wrong . schedule 21 to the Sentencing Act 2020 need a massive review , but one thing we could definitely do be put in aggravate factor specifically on strangulation , as Clare Wade suggest . we debate new clause 49 and 50 extensively in Committee , and they relate to whether victim of domestic violence deserve defence in the law . I imagine this matter will get an even big run - out in the Lords . many learn member of the other place very much wish to see these mitigation for case where woman commit crime as a result of the pattern of abuse they have suffer . I look forward to that be the ongoing debate down there . we do not debate new clause 93 in Committee , so I will just talk about it . I like it as a policy , because it do not cost anything , which the Minister will be pleased to hear . it call for the sentencing code to be amend to require judge to consider make compensation order where there be evidence of economic loss or damage as a result of the offence . I know from my constituent and the charity survive Economic Abuse that even when a survivor be lucky enough to have her case reach court and her abuser hand a prison sentence , she have to live with the long - last impact of the abuse . some 5 . 5 million UK woman have have their money and belonging control by their current or former partner in the past 12 month . many economic abuse survivor often end up homeless , destitute and with damaged credit score that prevent they from rebuild their life . while the sentencing code require judge to consider award compensation when make their judgment , in reality they do not . research by survive Economic Abuse look at successful controlling or coercive behaviour prosecution that feature economic abuse between 2016 and 2020 , and it find that despite evidence of loss and damage cause by the perpetrator , just 2 % of case result in the perpetrator be order to pay compensation . new clause 93 would help ensure that judge consider whether a compensation order be appropriate in case of economic abuse . that be the end of my amendment . however , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) have have many a mention today . she can not be here today , but she have ask I to make some remark on new clause 2 on her behalf . I make they very much on my behalf , too , with one particular question to the Minister . I have already ask she about the age be under 13 . if somebody come to I and say that the father of their child have rape a 14 - year - old , I do not think they would be particularly happy that they still have to go through the family court process , so I very much hope that when the Minister say this be an iterative process , that will actually be the case . there be still massive safeguarding issue . new clause 2 would change the law to protect the child of convict child sex offender by take away their father ' s parental right . that would be hugely significant and would lay down that fatherhood be a privilege , not a right and that people will forfeit it if they be a danger to their child . that would be a major change . the patriarchal hangover whereby a father ' s right over a child be sacrosanct will , at long last , give way to the priority of protect the child . it have long be recognise that child need protect from sex offender . while in the 1990 we bring forward protection for child through the sex offender register and restriction on people who have be convict of serious sexual offence , we do not tackle parental right and protect the offender ' s own child . somehow , the patriarchal view that a father ' s right over their own child must not be disturb be a carve - out . obviously that be wrong , because the right of the child — not the right of the father — should be at the forefront . a recent family court case in Cardiff put a spotlight on that . when the father of Bethan ' s daughter be send to prison for child sexual abuse , Bethan be horrify to discover that , despite be in prison , he still have right over their child . when he be sentence , he be give an order ban he from any future contact with child , but that ban do not extend to his own child . Bethan spend £ 30 , 000 go through the family court fight to protect her child from he . the court and the law should step forward to protect child . it should not be leave to the mother — especially because , in most of these case , the mother will be a victim as well . the court should strip the father who have do the offending of right over his child . as the Government have say , they be adopt this change . I have already say that I have concern about some of the limitation with regard to the offence type . let we be honest : I do not believe in the right of fatherhood when parent be abusive at all . when work with my right hon . and learn Friend , there be a lot of message — that be what it be always like . the drafting of the legislation have essentially be copy and paste from previous campaign that we work on with regard to Jade ' s law on homicide , and there be a worry about the drafting of propose new section 10b to the Children Act , which require local authority to make an application to the family court to review the decision to remove the sex - offend father ' s parental right in every case , even when there be no issue at all with the mother . in her closing remark , will the Minister address that ? rise — order . I urge colleague to be considerate of each other in the length of time that they be take . I be try to ensure that we get everybody in , and the debate will finish at 7 . 20 pm , so that mean that colleague have about 10 to 12 minute each . I rise to speak in favour of new clause 57 and what be new clause 7 which have be copy by the Government in new clause 94 and 95 on cuckoo . have discuss the matter , I very much welcome the fact that the Government have essentially adopt my original new clause . some modification have take place , and I agree with all of those . it be critical that cuckooing be an offence in itself . when we talk to the police about it , they be clear throughout that they could not get into house where there be problem — or even perhaps criminal activity be take place — because there be no offence of have take over the house . it will make the police ' s job a great deal easy if they do not have to be able to demonstrate suspicion that a criminal act be take place in the house ; they will simply have to believe that the house have essentially be cuckoo . they will then be able to go in and discover lot of stuff . many criminal take over these house for the simple reason that they know it will take the police a while to get their act together and be able to get inside . that action will be speed up , which I think ultimately will help the police dramatically . I make the point to the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) that vulnerability play a massive part in all this . who know what vulnerability be , but some victim have drug , alcohol , physical and mental health problem , and may have other learn difficulty and other disability . we forget about the learning disability element , but vulnerability can encompass somebody ' s lifelong failure through all education system and everything else . they be vulnerable , but they may not display those vulnerability to the public cognisance . therefore , cuckoo — use someone to take over their house — be what happen . hide behind those door , the victim go unnoticed . build on that point , do my right hon . friend accept that , sometimes , vulnerable people might appear to be exactly the opposite ? they might put up a fa ç ade of great confidence or even of arrogance , include in the criminal justice process , which I have witness as a magistrate . we need to look carefully behind that , to assess whether someone be arrogant or vulnerable . I could not agree more . that be why I be insistent that the Government be clear in the guidance that coercion and other act negate the idea that , superficially , the individual be declare to have give their permission . that need to be investigate more deeply by the police before they say , " it ' s all right , they give their say so , it be fine . " it be not fine . that vulnerability need to be examine . I be grateful to my hon . friend for make that point , and I be grateful to the Minister for make it clear at the beginning that that will be in the guidance . research from the Centre for Social Justice and Justice and Care highlight that , despite the terrible impact on victim , take control of a person ' s home in this way be not specifically a crime . the specific offence of cuckooing be therefore need to rectify the harm do . it have be claim endlessly that civil order do the job , but they do not because they be short term . they can be obtain quickly but they be not last and do not do anything — perpetrator be back into the process because they be not criminal order . that be the point : if we make this a criminal offence , suddenly these perpetrator will have to think twice . I be be brief because I welcome the Government ' s decision to amend their own Bill and put it into law . I be grateful for that , and it will be celebrate up and down the land by many people who have feel abandon . the issue be link in many sense to what the hon . member for Birmingham , Yardley say early about vulnerability . it may open a wide debate about how vulnerability be recognise in criminal law . new clause 57 would create an offence of cause death by serious injury and dangerous , careless or inconsiderate cycling . if accept , it would ensure that cyclist be hold accountable for their action , enhance road safety and provide justice for victim and their family . simply , it try to bring in what have , for some reason , be completely leave out of the normal criminal code and highway code with regard to some of problem cause by the increase in cycling . let I make it clear that I be very keen for more cycling to take place — it be good for individual and the environment . I recognise all that . this be not anti - cycling , despite what many people say about it — quite the opposite . it be about make sure that cycling be safe and reasonable . I want to raise the case of Matthew Briggs , who have be campaign for a law recognise death and serious injury . he be in the Gallery , witness these event . his attempt to get a cyclist prosecute after his wife be kill in central London in 2016 involve a legal process so convoluted and difficult that even the preside judge have say , since she have retire , that it make a mockery of the law . it need to be address that the law do not cover what happen to Matthew ' s wife and a lot of other people . they have to use a victorian law make in about 1850 , about wanton and furious driving , which refer to horse riding . nothing have be do ever since . it be quite a different offence , to be frank , and it certainly be not about cycling . as far back as the 1950 , it be recognise that jury be slow to convict in motor manslaughter case — that be recognise in a report that I will come to in a second — which lead to major change in the law for driver . the case for change the law on cyclist be now urgent . by the way , it be not just I say that . back in 2018 , the Department for Transport commission an independent inquiry into this very issue . some of the point it make be really relevant , but nothing have be do since . it state : " there be a persuasive case for legislative change to tackle the issue of dangerous and careless cycling that cause serious injury or death ; in order to bring cycling into line with drive offence . " it be interesting that it refer to a number of country that do incorporate that . it have not lead to a fall in cycling in those country — it be still increase — but it be do on a lawful basis . the report quote a barrister — this be a key component : " I consider that this legislative change would have a positive effect on all road user . " they go on to say that it " would have a positive impact purely and simply on the basis of cyclist be well aware that if they be to ride in a careless or dangerous manner and be unfortunate enough to kill someone " law would proceed against they . they go on to say : " I would like to think that it would have a positive impact for people to think ' I be go to slow down , I ' m not go to do anything stupid ' " because it could put they in danger with the law . as I say , that independent report be from 2018 , but nothing have be do since . that have make this more important . Matthew Briggs and other campaigner often have face a lot of abuse from people who simply do not want change to happen . it be time for we to recognise the impact of this issue . under the current 1861 law , even if someone on a bike have kill a pedestrian , they can only be jail for a maximum of two year . that create a clear discrepancy between different form of dangerous behaviour on road , and the punishment do not always fit the severity of the crime or achieve justice for victim . in one case , Mr Justice Mitting state : " if the vehicle ride by " the suspect " have be motorise he would have have no defence to a charge of cause death by dangerous driving , an offence which carry a maximum sentence of 14 year ' imprisonment . " there have be call for legislative change for some time — I mention the report — but the number be grow . it be worth look at some other case , which show that Mr Briggs ' s case be far from isolated . family who have lose love one or who have suffer injury be desperate for change . in July 2020 , Peter McCombie , 72 , be kill by cyclist Ermir Loka , who have jump a red light . in June 2022 , Stewart McGinn , 29 , be jail for a year after he speed on his bike around a corner in Monmouth , south Wales , hit Jane Stone , 79 , who die four day later . in June 2022 , Hilda Griffiths — this be a very important case — who be age 81 , be run over by a cyclist , who be race along at 29 mph in a 20 mph zone on a high - performance racing bike . she subsequently die . the extent of Hilda ' s injury be so severe that all the NHS medical professional at St Mary ' s Hospital could not believe that the collision have be with a bicycle . at the time , they think they have misread the note and that it must have be a motorbike or a vehicle that cause such extensive , life - threaten injury . the case be unable to proceed because the speed limit do not apply to cyclist . these anomaly need to be resolve . on 1 May , I meet Paolo Dos Santos , who be knock unconscious after she be hit by a speed cyclist who be overtake a car — overtake a car — at the same spot . she suffer several facial injury and now require reconstruction surgery for her upper jaw socket . without initial surgery , she would have lifelong discomfort and pain , and would not be able to use her mouth properly to chew , or anything else . in 2016 , Diana Walker , 76 , die when a cyclist hit she in Pewsey , Wiltshire . in June 2020 , Ian Gunn , 56 , die in south Manchester , yet the cyclist be clear of wanton and furious driving . it be interesting : I be talk about not just death , but injury . I hope colleague note the age of most of the victim . it be old people who be affect and it be worth recognise that this be a real problem . the Department for Transport produce statistic on pedestrian involve in road collision in Great Britain as report by or to the police . between 2018 and 2022 , 2 , 000 pedestrian casualty in Great Britain occur in a collision involve a pedal cycle . of those , nine be fatal , 657 be very serious injury and 1 , 292 be injury . the number of pedestrian hit by cyclist have increase by a third since 2020 , and in 2022 , the most recent year for which figure be available , 462 collision between cyclist and pedestrian be record by police . accord to datum from NHS England , 331 pedestrian be admit to hospital after a collision with a cyclist between 2022 and 2023 . six of those patient be over the age of 90 , and 11 be under the age of four . we can see a pattern here : the elderly and the very young be become the people most affected . it should also be bear in mind that most of these injury and accident be not report to the police because most people do not think anything will happen — unlike motor accident , although I take the point make early by the hon . member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) that even motorist try to abscond . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will , but very briefly , in view of your stricture , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I make a specific point about road traffic accident ? we be debate a Criminal Justice Bill , and we be discuss support for victim . the maximum penalty for drive without insurance be a £ 300 fine or six point on the driver ' s licence , unless the case go to court , in which case driver can receive unlimited fine and be disqualify from drive , irrespective of whether their offence be the first or the 10th . should we not address that aspect as well , with the aim of make our road safe ? I hope my hon . friend will forgive I if I do not go down that road at this particular point , because I be deal with a very focused new clause , but I think that , as a minimum , we need to bring matter back into balance and allow ordinary pedestrian and other to recognise that there be a problem that need to be rectify . I hope the Government will do that . there have be an explosion in the number of electric bike . the other day , I watch as someone on an electric bike pass a small primary school , just at the last moment avoid the child who be come in and out of it . I genuinely believe that he must have be do over 30 mile an hour — coat flap in the wind , not a care in the world , wear no protection and certainly with no concern for those young child . it give quite a shock to many of the mother who be stand there . I watch with astonishment at the arrogance of the cyclist . it have be report that some of these bike have be adapt so that they can go fast than the legal speed limit for vehicle . these be not simply retrospective issue ; they be develop issue . I believe that the new clause will achieve equal accountability . driver be hold accountable for dangerous driving result in death , and cyclist should face similar consequence for reckless behaviour that lead to fatality . it will achieve deterrence , because strict penalty for dangerous cycling will act as a deterrent , and it will achieve justice and closure for the family of victim who deserve it ; outdated law that do not adequately address cycling - relate fatality can leave they bereft . finally , it will achieve public safety , because update traffic law can contribute to safe road environment for all user , include pedestrian , cyclist and motorist . new clause 57 stand not only in my name but in those of many colleague on both side of the House , and I recommend it to the Government . I recognise that it be not perfect — as be suggest by the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) — but I hope that the Government will adopt it , give that it can be modify in the other place if necessary . not to adopt it now be to deny that there be a problem . I intend to press it when the time come , but we do not have to divide on it , because I hope and believe that there be a chance of the Government ' s adopt it , which would be a relevant and good position to take . let I end by commend Matt Briggs . he have campaign bravely for some time , and have be vilify by many party who do not want this to be do . his wife die and he have be without she for a number of year , but he have never relent in his campaign . just over a week ago , I hear he speak on Radio 4 , and his testimony so move I that I decide we have to start act now . I make no apology for that . as I have say , the new clause be by no mean perfect , but action be well than inaction in so many case . I would like to speak in support of new clause 16 , which be in my name . it seek to amend the Road Traffic Act 1988 to provide that dangerous , careless or inconsiderate driving offence may be commit on private land adjacent to a highway . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) for present and support my new clause in Committee , and for the positive comment in Committee from colleague on the shadow Front Bench and the Government Front Bench , as outline by my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) early . I should like to give some background to the new clause . in August 2017 , a 22 - month - old child , Pearl Melody Black from Merthyr Tydfil , be tragically kill when walk with her father and brother . Pearl be kill by an unoccupied vehicle that roll from a private drive in Merthyr Tydfil on to the highway and down a hill before crash into a wall that subsequently crush Pearl and injure her father and brother . in the month after the incident , officer from the serious collision unit of South Wales police work tirelessly to put a case together to provide justice for the family . in short , all test conclude that the car be mechanically sound and that it have roll because the handbrake be not fully engage and the automatic transmission be not fully place into " park " mode . the case be send to the Crown Prosecution Service and work on by the London office as well as by the independent QC hire by the CPS to consult . everyone be hopeful of a conviction under the death by dangerous driving category . the CPS also look into other possible option . in June 2018 , however , the CPS state that it be unable to send the case to court because a glitch in the law state that , in order to bring a prosecution under the Road Traffic Act 1988 , the vehicle must have start its journey on a public road . so , even though Pearl be kill on a public road , the fact that the vehicle start its descent from a private drive mean that prosecution be not possible . the coroner state that the vehicle be well maintain and that it seem that the issue be very much one of driver operation . the inquest hear that the handbrake have not be fully apply in " park " mode . the inquest into Pearl ' s death be hear in October 2018 , and the outcome be that it have be an accident . however , with the support of South Wales police and the CPS , Pearl ' s parent have seek to change the law — and they continue to do so — so that other family be not in a similar situation of not be able to secure justice due to a legal loophole follow such a tragic and completely preventable incident . as Gemma and Paul Black acknowledge , as the legislation would not be retrospective , it would not help to bring justice for Pearl , but prevent anyone else from suffer such an injustice might provide some comfort . I introduce a ten - minute rule Bill to amend the 1988 Act , and that Bill have cross - party support . however , as with most ten - minute rule Bills , it fall due to a lack of parliamentary time . a new clause in this Criminal Justice Bill would allow for the change to be make . it be wholly wrong that in case such as the tragic one I have outline justice can not be achieve where there can be no conviction simply because the land on which the incident take place be not classify as public . if the law on drive offence occur on private land adjoin public land be change , it would be a powerful deterrent to road user show carelessness , as well as to those who have no doubt exploit the current loophole in the law to avoid conviction when they have undoubtedly be at fault . People would be likely to take more care and pay more attention when drive or parking on private land close to public land , in the knowledge that there could be serious consequence for careless or reckless behaviour . there be instance where private land adjoin public land be regularly use and potentially dangerous to those around it . these area include residential driveway , as I have outline , as well as school , nursery , supermarket , shopping centre and doctor ' surgery , to name some of the most common . when we consider some of these example , we can see that drive on that specific category of land can present a high risk to people in everyday situation , especially child , the elderly and some of the most vulnerable among we . I be sure that all hon . and right hon . member would agree that nobody who have suffer the loss of a love one or have an accident or injury as a result of a drive offence should have to endure the injustice of see those responsible go free simply because of a loophole in the law . prosecution for drive offence — and , indeed , any illegal action — should be base on what happen , not where it happen . I be hopeful that , if these change be make , it would give people such as Gemma and Paul Black , and many other , the peace of mind that there be consequence for dangerous driving , no matter where it occur , and it would help to prevent such needless and avoidable tragedy . the Criminal Justice Bill be the first opportunity in a number of year to amend the Road Traffic Act . I understand that the Ministry of Justice be supportive but , as it relate primarily to transport , it be for the Department for Transport to provide a workaround . I be therefore grateful to the road Minister , the hon . member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , for meet my constituent Paul and Gemma Black a few week ago . he offer some hope , and he offer to do what he can to help . I be also grateful for the positive conversation with the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) . although there have be work on this complex issue , there be no definitive progress as yet . perhaps the Minister could give some indication as to the Government ' s current thinking when she wind up the debate . I will continue to chase progress , because I believe this be a matter of common sense and justice . I hope the Government will offer some support , hope and peace of mind for my constituent Paul and Gemma and , no doubt , for many other across the constituency . before speak to new clause 25 and 26 in my name , I want to say that it be a huge honour and privilege to serve in Committee , where we do a huge amount of work on the Bill . we can all see element of the Bill that affect our constituency . in Chelmsford , outlaw the scanner that thief use to intercept car key signal so that they can drive away with our vehicle be welcome . essex ' s police and crime commissioner have campaign for the new knife crime law . along with other , I have campaign and lobby the Minister for the amendment she table on spike . I also support the amendment before we today on a huge range of matter , include the one on dangerous cycling , cuckooing and revenge porn . this show the Bill ' s incredibly wide scope , which provide an opportunity to update crucial law in so many area . faint - hearted or cowardly Ministers would not have give we a Bill with such broad scope . they would have shy away from it , fear have so many amendment and so many area of controversy . they would have fear colleague table amendment to play political game , and they would not have take the risk . minister have do the right thing by introduce a Bill with such broad scope . they recognise that even the good law sometimes need a fresh pair of eye , because situation change , and they want our law in this country to be the good they can possibly be . I thank they for not shy away from the work and for be so brave in allow these discussion to happen . my amendment be far from play political game . they propose extremely important law to protect child from the vilest of vile crime — child sexual abuse and , particularly , online child sexual abuse . there be a good reason why , for so many decade , it have be illegal for people to have image of child sexual abuse on their computer , because we know that people who look at this sort of content be more likely to step from the visual world into the real world to abuse child . I would argue that people who abuse child in the virtual world be even more likely to go on to abuse real child . new clause 25 would update our law on paedophile manual to include AI - generate material . new clause 26 , which would also update the law for the rapid evolution of AI , would make it illegal to use digital tool such as bot or avatar to simulate sexual communication with a child . this would include act such as create a bot or avatar to rape a child in the digital world . I thank the Internet Watch Foundation for its work on these new clause , which be support by the police lead on child sexual abuse and other . artificial intelligence be develop extraordinarily rapidly . there have be an explosion in AI content , and the consequence of that in the dark world of child sexual abuse be devastating . AI - generate image be become so widespread on the internet that when the IWF conduct a snapshot study between September and October of just one dark web forum , it discover that more than 20 , 000 ai - generate image of child sexual abuse have be upload in just that one month on that one forum . these image be now so realistic that it be incredibly difficult for law enforcement agency to tell the difference between real image of real child , who need real safeguarding , and those that have be generate use AI . I turn to new clause 26 . under section 15a of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 , it be an offence to communicate sexually with a child . the new clause create a new offence of simulate sexual activity with a child ; this include use , create or share bot or other tool to simulate sexual communication with child . I be tell that in online paedophile community there be always a desire to utilise technology to bring the fantasy of child sexual abuse close to a reality . the evolution of AI technology be see as the ultimate solution — it be grim ; it allow child abuser to feel as close to the sensation of interact with and abuse a real child as possible without actually commit the physical act of abuse a child . however , just as we know that a person who regularly view image of CSA be more likely to sexually abuse a real child , it be absolutely clear that a person who abuse a virtual child , or direct an online companion or bot to do so , be much more likely to go on to abuse a real one . my right hon . friend be deal with an issue that demonstrate the type of issue pervade all of this Bill . again , I pay tribute to all the people who serve on the Bill Committee and deal with such a difficult range of issue , as they have do a great service to our House . on behalf of all of we who serve on the Committee , I thank my right hon . friend for that . I should say that the Ministers and shadow Ministers do a huge amount of work on the Bill . to put it simply , the online act of abuse lower the bar to physical offending . there be huge concern regard the development of AI chatbot and the ease , speed , and quality with which text - to - image - base generative AI tool have be develop . furthermore , it be important to recognise that this be become a risk to massive number of child . the National Crime Agency estimate that approximately 680 , 000 to 830 , 000 people in the UK — between 1 . 3 % and 1 . 6 % of the adult population — pose some form of sexual threat to child . Android and ios app store have a plentiful supply of AI companion app . they enable the user to create an imaginary online friend , to choose what that friend look like and to direct what they do . the three large app have already receive well over 1 million download each . within minute of download one of these popular app , law enforcement operative be able to have an interactive communication with an AI chatbot discuss the abduction , sexual abuse , torture and murder of an eight - year - old girl . furthermore , through monitor offender discussion online , we know that technically capable user be actively build AI chatbot companion specifically for the purpose of have realistic , paedophilic role - play involve AI child avatar . Ian Critchley , the national police lead on child protection , have warn that the metaverse create a " gateway for predator to commit horrific crime against child " . there be many story of child avatar have be subject to the most hideous of rape . in evidence to the Education Committee , of which I be a member , the Children ' s Commissioner describe a child who have " virtually experienced be rape and sexually abuse . " she say that we must not think that that type of rape be not traumatic , just because it happen in an online world . it be traumatic . it be abuse , and it can be part of grooming . she warn we legislator to " not underestimate the safeguarding issue " . the type of behaviour that we be discuss normalise the sexual abuse of child . it encourage those with sexual thought about child to act on their urge . we know that this type of behaviour can and do lead to contact offending in the future . it put real child at risk of significant harm that will impact they for their whole life . furthermore , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will be concern to hear that many AI - generate tool have be train on real material , involve real child . that type of interaction be far from be a victimless crime . it be clear that AI chatbot technology have to be more tightly control . it need to be regulate . at present , there be no responsibility place on individual or entity who create or share these vile digital tool , let alone on those who use they . my amendment will change that . new clause 25 cover paedophile manual . there be an exist offence of possess guide to the sexual abuse of child — so - call paedophile manual . the new clause would update legislation so that it refer to guide give advice on create child sexual abuse content use generative artificial intelligence or machine learning . section 69 of the Serious Crime Act 2015 prohibit the creation , distribution and use of paedophile manual . however , the legislation be applicable only to direction on the sexual abuse of real child ; it specifically omit " pseudo photograph . " it make no reference to direct people on how to use technology , such as text - to - image generative AI or machine learning , to create child sexual abuse material , or to provide hint and tip on how to create such image . one recent 210 - page manual contain detailed instruction on how to extort image and video from adolescent . the guide advise people to first ask the child to share image of they wear swimwear , a bikini or underwear . once those image have be obtain , the guide discuss how to use nudifye AI technology to remove the clothing from the child . it then explain how to blackmail the victim into send nude image of themselves , and how to use those image for sextortion . it also contain information on the device , app and website that a perpetrator can use to protect themselves from detection . sextortion be another crime that be grow incredibly quickly . the National Centre for Missing & Exploited Children in the US report 26 , 718 case of sextortion globally in 2023 , compare to just 10 , 000 the year before . there have also be an explosion of case in the UK . the National Crime Agency recently write to all school about the grow risk of sextortion . hon . member may have hear about the recent case of 16 - year - old Murray Dowey , from Dunblane , who die by suicide after become a victim of sextortion . it be a heinous and grow crime — a scourge . just imagine how much bad it will become if we allow it to become rocket - fuel by AI alter image . new clause 25 will ensure that our law cover digitally generate image and the digital generation of material . finally , I thank the Government for new clause 65 , which introduce a duty to report child sexual offence . however , I would just say to the Minister that further clarity on how that provision work in practice be very important . Amendment 25 be not schedule to be discuss today . I hope the Minister can confirm that the Government will introduce an amendment on paedophile manual in the other place . I know that colleague in the other place intend to re - table the amendment . I hope that the Government will accept amendment 26 . I do not think that the Government whip want to call on conservative colleague to walk through the No Lobby against an amendment tackle the rape of child . I shall listen closely to what the Minister say in her closing speech . this afternoon , we have hear about some really strong amendment that would strengthen the Criminal Justice Bill , but other amendment seek to criminalise homelessness , far restrict peaceful protest and vastly expand police surveillance power . today , I wish to focus on new clause 28 in my name , which continue the campaign to fix the law on joint enterprise . I begin my campaign with support from the amazing campaigner at JENGbA , Liberty and many other for my private Member ' s Bill back in February . I be grateful to receive the support of nearly 40 colleague , who back this amendment , as well as a commitment from my Front - Bench team back in February that Labour will seek to review and reform joint enterprise as and when we get into power . a charge of joint enterprise too often lead to an assumption of guilt in the courtroom . the defendant be force to prove their innocence , which turn our justice system on its head . that be a failure of our justice system , supposedly the good in the world , and an affront to the taxpayer , who be leave foot the bill for sloppy sentencing . my amendment would enshrine in law the concept that a person can be prosecute under joint enterprise only where they be prove to have significantly contribute to a crime . that would raise the bar for prosecution , and would provide the jury with the tool to differentiate between defendant who deserve to face a mandatory life sentence for their role in a serious crime , and those who do not . this miscarriage of justice be bad than the Post Office Horizon scandal , because it involve child as young as 13 be convict and incarcerate for a crime that they do not commit , and be give a whole life sentence , with little or no option for appeal . campaign by JENGbA and Liberty lead to a six - month pilot datum collection project by the Crown Prosecution Service , which have now agree to roll out the scheme fully and permanently . analysis of the original datum reveal that more than half of those prosecute under joint enterprise be age under 25 , with black youth 16 time more likely to be prosecute under joint enterprise law than their white counterpart . I personally welcome the commitment from the Director of Public Prosecutions to far investigate these disparity . the evidence clearly show that the legislation be be widely use as a dragnet to maximise conviction . we need only scrutinise the Old Baily daily court list to witness how widespread this practice be . joint enterprise allow the prosecution to use a racist gang narrative to imply guilt , and to persuade jury use prejudicial stereotype in place of cold , hard evidence , in a way that be often compare to russian roulette . human right group Liberty submit one such case last year to the Criminal Cases Review Commission after 11 defendant , all black , be collectively convict and sentence to a total of 168 year in prison for a single murder . evidence include a rap video make online a year early , photo of some of the defendant use hand sign , and the allege favouring of the colour red . I hope that the ccrc , which twice reject Andrew Malkinson ' s request to review , will look at this request more favourably . in that and similar case , the prosecution call police officer to give their opinion , as expert , on alleged gang culture , a concept that still evade legal definition but carry with it a racist stereotype intend to sway a jury . that be extremely prejudicial , consider the relationship that the police have with black community , and consider that black people be disproportionately represent in the criminal justice system . new datum from expert at Manchester Metropolitan University have reveal that nearly £ 250 million be spend each year on process defendant in joint enterprise case . an average of 1 , 088 people every single year be convict under joint enterprise ; the total cost to the taxpayer of their future punishment be a colossal £ 1 . 2 billion . with prison not only chronically overcrowded but unsafe , as highlight by the recent prison inspectorate urgent notification about Wandsworth and other prison , and with violent crime on the rise , enough be enough . joint enterprise be costly and ineffective . it be time for a change in the law . if the social cost of joint enterprise be not conclusive , the economic cost must be the final nail in the coffin for this shocking miscarriage of justice . it have be a decade since evidence be first present to Parliament , yet our prison be dangerously overflowing and fail to rehabilitate . the taxpayer be still foot the bill for thousand of people have be wrongly jail for the crime of another . if someone do not make a significant contribution to a crime , they should not be prosecute for it ; it be as simple as that . joint enterprise be a stain on our justice system , and the law must be review and change to stop this dragnet . it be possible to both uphold justice for the victim of crime and put an end to this injustice . my simple change to the law would do just that . I hope that member will recognise the need for urgent change and support my new clause . I rise to speak to my new clause 32 , which would address the disparity between exist protect characteristic and current hate crime legislation . hate crime relate to race and religion carry high maximum penalty than those associate with sexual orientation , transgender — or perceive transgender — identity , and disability . that have establish an unjust , dual - tier justice system . my proposal align with the prior expansion of aggravate offence , such as the inclusion of religiously aggravate offence in 2001 follow the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 , which initially legislate only for racially aggravate offence . it also build on the Law Commission ' s 2021 report , which emphasise the necessity of parity of protection across all protect characteristic , and have garner substantial support from disability and LGBT + organisation . many people have ask whether this be some sort of woke frontier . we know that a lot of pearl - clutch happen in this place when we mention trans people . I reassure the House , and those concerned about such thing , that this be no woke crusade . indeed , I do not intend in the new clause to divert from exist legal definition of LGBT + identity . nor do I seek to redefine the barrier of aggravate offence . the new clause would simply close a loophole that the Law Commission identify whereby some protect characteristic be treat differently from other in the legal system , for no good reason that I can see . we have debate many time why sex and / or gender be not include ; however , the Law Commission recommend — this be accept by the Government in their response — that they should not be , because in some case it would lead to a situation where the offence would be hard to prove . the Law Commission therefore suggest that we go down a different route in legislate for offence against woman and girl , which the Government accept . the Government have not yet respond to the Law Commission ' s 2021 report on these issue . when the Bill be in Committee , the Government ask for additional time to do so , and do not accept an almost identical new clause — in fact , it may have be identical . let I set out some background , and show why the time have come for we to close this loophole , and why I hope that the Government will agree to do so . my new clause come against a backdrop of escalate hate crime rate , which underscore the urgency to act . between 2011 - 12 and 2022 - 23 , incident across all monitor strand of hate crime have surge dramatically . notably , racially aggravate offence have more than double , exceed 100 , 000 case in 2021 - 22 . similarly , hate crime base on religion , sexual orientation and transgender identity have see staggering increase of 433 % , 493 % and 1 , 263 % respectively . furthermore , violent hate incident have surge , comprise a grow proportion of overall hate crime statistic . against that backdrop , I believe the time have come for we to ensure that all protect characteristic be treat equally in law , and my new clause seek to do just that . if the Government be not minded to accept the wording I have propose , I would be very interested to have a conversation with Ministers in the lead - up to the Lords consideration of the Bill . if a commitment be make from the Dispatch Box that a Government amendment will be table in the Lords in lieu of mine , I will be happy to back away . if not , I will press my new clause today . it be imperative that all people , regardless of their disability status , their sexual orientation or their gender identity , feel secure and protect from fear and violence . I can see no justification in law for treat those protect characteristic differently . by treat they all as an aggravating factor , we can ensure equitable treatment under the law for those who be victim . I hope that the Government will either support new clause 32 to advance this critical objective or be willing to table their own amendment in the Lords in lieu of mine . hon . member may be shock to learn that some form of pimping be still legal in this country . one of the most significant example be pimp website , which be dedicate to advertising people for prostitution . they function like online brothel , make it as easy to order a woman to sexually exploit as it be to order a takeaway . despite it be an offence to place a prostitution advert on land , for example in a phone box , our law have fail to keep up with technology , mean that those same advert can be place legally , for a fee , on pimp website . that represent a win for the website owner , some of whom be generate million of pound in profit every year , and for sex trafficker , who can easily and quickly advertise people for prostitution and connect with a wide customer base across the UK , but certainly not for the victim — the people who have be advertise and sell for sex and who have no legal protection from their perpetrator . as a member of the Home Affairs Committee , I have hear harrowing evidence on the danger of these site . shockingly , one pimp website admit to the Committee that it allow single individual to advertise multiple woman for prostitution at the same time on its site , as well as allow the same contact number to be use across multiple different advert . those be both red flag for sex trafficking . the Committee also hear of a traffic gang that spend £ 25 , 000 advertise a group of young romanian woman . rather than alert the authority , the website owner allocate they an account manager to help they to spend more money , show a total disregard for the woman ' s welfare . it be quite clear that these pimp website be now a key component of the business model for sex trafficking , and they must be stop . the provision in the Online Safety Act 2023 do not close the legislative gap that allow online pimping . that be why the Home Affairs Committee recommend a new offence of enable or profit from the prostitution of other , which I have table as new clause 8 . new clause 8 would make it illegal to advertise another person for prostitution , regardless of whether it take place online or offline . I be delighted to have cross - party support for the new clause , include from the Chair of the Select Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) ; the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on commercial sexual exploitation , the hon . member for Inverclyde ( Ronnie Cowan ) ; the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) ; and my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) . it be an absolute scandal that pimp website be allow to operate in plain sight . I urge the Government to support my new clause . new clause 29 be also design to combat human trafficking . the definition of " human trafficking " in the Modern Slavery Act 2015 be out of line with the internationally agree definition , and trafficker be benefit from that . the United Nations protocol on trafficking , the Palermo protocol , do not require victim to have be physically transport from one place to another for an activity to be recognise as trafficking , but our Modern Slavery Act do . essentially , that mean that an exploiter who force a woman into prostitution , advertise she on a pimp website , control how many man she have to have sex with each day , and take her money from she could get a substantially low penalty simply by virtue of not physically have transport she . the maximum penalty for control prostitution for gain be seven year ' imprisonment . for trafficking , it be life . it be vital that we send a message to all trafficker that there be no get - out clause for that offence , and that we say : " if you trade in human being , if you profit from woman be rape and abuse , the absence of a car journey or a flight should not exempt you from punishment . " new clause 29 would bring the UK definition of human trafficking in line with international standard and remove the opportunity for perpetrator of such crime to play the system . that , too , be a recommendation of the Home Affairs Committee . again , I urge the Government to support the new clause . I restrict my interest today to new clause 55 , which I table . it would set up the offence of child criminal exploitation — in other word , it be Fagin ' s law . the essence of the name Fagin explain the new clause . in simple term , if an individual — whether an adult or a child — approach a child with the intention of persuade that child to engage in criminal activity , that in itself would be a crime . that would apply whether or not the child ultimately engage in the criminal act . I be delighted to see the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire on the Front Bench , because I blame he for my deal with this . we discuss it in a meeting , and I put it to he that we really ought to adapt the grooming legislation or bring forward new legislation to deal with the criminal exploitation of child . like a normal Minister , he say , " can you go away and sort it out , and come up with something for I ? " , which I have do . he might now refuse it this evening , but I hope that he do not , because I will keep on come back . the most obvious crime to target be county line , organise shoplifting , independent shoplifting , pickpockete , carry good from pickpockete , carry weapon or the proceed of crime on behalf of another — usually an adult who have groom the child — prostitution and sex activity , of which there have be quite some mention , as there always be , and , finally and horrifically , the grooming of a child for terrorist purpose . they wrap the child in a bomb , send they off to wherever they need to go , and press the button — absolutely horrific . I have have considerable discussion with a few very senior , very knowledgeable police officer . they be — unlike what the Minister may feel — very enthusiastic about this tiny bit of legislation go through . one of the senior officer , who target county line , explain to I that they rely mostly on try to fit the Modern Slavery Act to that particular problem , but it be a poor fit . it have be point out to I that this approach have already be cover in section 44 of the Serious Crime Act 2007 . in answer to a recent parliamentary question of mine , I be inform that section 44 be use 93 time in 2021 - 22 and 60 time in 2022 - 23 , which be pathetic . those figure be far diminish when we look at they a little more closely : they relate to the number of offence , not to the number of individual defendant , and I be not sure whether some or any of they involve a child . a second , even more senior , police officer who I have work with have a special interest in child protection — that be his job . he have make it clear that he be enthusiastic about this move , and I be sure he will thank the Policing Minister if we nod it through today . he have make the point to I that while there be provision in the Serious Crime Act — which I have just mention — as well as in the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 and other act that the police can try to make fit , they be a poor fit . it do not work , because that legislation be not specific to child . in essence , senior police officer point out to I that those piece of legislation be rarely use to stop child criminalisation . they also make the point that if the legislation be adapt ever so slightly to refer to a child , that would make a difference . any member present who be parent or have have care of child will know that child — not all of they , but most of they — be persuadable . one of my village , Bookham , have a petrol station on the A246 with a shop attach to it . that shop be big , well known and open 24 hour . late one evening , the single man who be in there look after the customer notice that there be a single person in the shop , an eight - year - old child in a dressing gown . she be help herself , and be obviously go to zip out the door with what she have pilfer . when he approach she , she say , " if you come any close , I ' ll open my dressing gown , and I ' ve get nothing on underneath . " she would not have think of that . she could not have think of it — she be only eight . she be quite clearly do that for somebody else , who be probably sit outside with a camera . that be the sort of thing that we should be stop . of course , I be go to find out in due course whether I be persuade the Minister . as I have say , the opinion of that child protection officer be that the legislation we have do not fit . he and many other senior police officer work in this area want further legislation to specifically equate groom through criminal exploitation with what be contain in the Sexual Offences Act 2003 , target at child protection . all the officer who have an interest in the protection of child with whom I have discuss this matter have point out that the key difference between my new clause 55 and section 44 of the Serious Crime Act be that my new clause be specifically target at the child . from my discussion with police officer , I have be impress by the deterrent effect on criminal who may be prosecute for a child offence . that , I understand , tend to make life in jail even more difficult than it might otherwise be . as a number of senior lawyer — include member of this House — have point out to I , there be overlap and duplication within british law . I be no lawyer , but many lawyer have say that to I . if my new clause 55 become law , the tariff apply to the crime would be that which would apply to the crime that the culprit be attempt to persuade the child to commit . if it be murder , the tariff would be life ; if it be just pilfer from a shop , it would be very much less . as many member will be aware , for many year , I have be push for improvement in legislation for the protection of child . I have also work — particularly as a councillor — in the inner city , so I know they be vulnerable . if my new clause be accept , it would make a huge change to the protection of child against a life of crime . there have be some excellent speech on this first day on Report on the Criminal Justice Bill , and I support many of the amendment that have be speak to . in my remark , I particularly want to focus on amendment table by hon . and right hon . member that the Home Affairs Committee have recommend in a number of our inquiry . I will start with new clause 8 , on pimp website , which seek to establish an offence of enable or profit from prostitution . it be table by my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) , and I commend she for her speech and for set out so clearly why this be important . the Home Affairs Committee have recommend this change , and we conclude that it be imperative that the Government make it a criminal offence to enable or profit from the prostitution of another person to reduce and deter traffic for sexual exploitation . during our inquiry on human trafficking , we be shocked to find out that not only do pimp website use by trafficker enjoy impunity — I hope the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire be listen to this particular point because this be about his official — but Home Office official and the National Crime Agency collaborate with these pimp website . they sit in meet room with the operator of these website , and " encourage they to only provide service which minimise the likelihood of illegal or high harm activity " . yet the National Crime Agency , when we question it about this approach , be not able to offer any evidence that this approach to these site have lead to any reduction in trafficking or have help the safeguarding of victim . the Committee be therefore force to conclude that collaboration have be a " resounding failure " . what our inquiry lay bare be that website advertising prostitution be a significant facilitator of traffic for sexual exploitation , and the Online Safety Act 2023 be not go to solve the problem . the Online Safety Act do not outlaw pimp website . in fact , disturbingly , draft guidance publish by Ofcom would actually provide a defence for pimp website to ignore warning sign of sex trafficking . quite helpfully , I have just be to a meeting with Ofcom to challenge it on this draft guidance , and I be not impress by the answer it give I about what it would expect from website provider in carry out a risk assessment . the Home Affairs Committee have be quite clear that , if one man be advertise 10 , 20 , 30 or 40 woman on a pimp website use one telephone number , to we it be a red flag that exploitation , and most likely trafficking , be go on . yet we be tell by Ofcom this afternoon that it do not necessarily mean that because , perhaps out of the goodness of his heart , the man might be help woman who choose to advertise sex by allow they to do so on his website , so it would be wrong for Ofcom or the website operator to infer that trafficking and exploitation be could be happen . I hope Ofcom will read this debate and listen to the criticism of the draft guidance that it have produce so far . the Home Affairs Committee hear from witness about website advertise prostitution , and we take the view that these website be a market - expand force . as my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East say , they centralise and concentrate the customer base for trafficker — man who pay for sex , basically — and as a consequence they be a magnet for trafficker . even if the site be not flagrantly ignore the sign of sex trafficking , which they be at the moment and may well be able to do under the new guidance from Ofcom , I and the Committee do not believe there be any way to make those site safe . it be very easy for trafficker to cover their track on such site — for instance , by simply make their victim upload their own advert to the website . that be why the Home Affairs Committee back the change in new clause 8 , which I hope the Minister will look at again . I also support new clause 29 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Swansea East , which concern the definition of human trafficking . it would bring the statutory definition of human trafficking in line with the internationally agree definition of trafficking , first by remove the requirement for the exploitation to have involve travel , and secondly by clarify that the consent of the victim be irrelevant , in relation not just to the travel but to the exploitation itself . that legislative change be recommend by the Home Affairs Committee as a result of our inquiry into human trafficking . we conclude that it be vital to remove the requirement of travel , and clarify that consent to exploitation be irrelevant to whether a crime have be commit , in order to " strengthen law enforcement ' s ability to bring the full force of the law against perpetrator of exploitation . " it be simply too easy for sex trafficker to operate in this country right now , as my hon . friend set out in her speech , and I ask the Minister to look at what the new clause would achieve . amendment 32 to 41 on spike be table by the hon . member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) , and I pay tribute to he for his dog determination to ensure that the Government get this right . one thing I have learn in this place over the year I have be here be that we must persist until we get the outcome that we want . two year ago the Home Affairs Committee publish the result of our inquiry into the crime of spike . we find that spiking can have a deeply damaging impact on the victim ' physical and mental health , and that urgent action be need to improve the reporting , investigation and prosecution of incident , as well as to support victim . crucially , the Committee determine that the absence of a specific offence of spike , in addition to limited reporting and investigation , mean that there be few deterrent for offender . we conclude that introduce a specific criminal offence would act as a deterrent , by send a clear message to perpetrator that spike be a serious crime that attract severe penalty . it would also facilitate police work to identify perpetrator and pattern of offend , by enable the police to collect well datum on the prevalence of spike incident , as well as encourage victim to report spike to law enforcement . the amendment would tighten up the new clause in the Bill that relate to spiking , ensure that they cover attempt spiking and spiking perpetrate to humiliate , to annoy , or for entertainment . I be pleased to add my support to the hon . Gentleman ' s amendment , and the Government would be well advise to accept they so that we can finally have a robust law on spike that deter offender and ensure accountability . I also wish to mention Government new clause 86 . the Home Affairs Committee be currently conduct an inquiry into non - contact sexual offence , which encompass a range of sexual offence involve no physical contact between the perpetrator and the victim , such as voyeurism and indecent exposure . there be significant concern that that form of violence against woman and girl be not take seriously enough , with perpetrator too rarely hold to account . I be pleased that the Government be take some action relate to non - contact sexual offence , and Government new clause 86 create an offence of create a purport sexual image of an adult without consult . the Home Affairs Committee be develop a range of recommendation to strengthen action against non - contact sexual offending more broadly , and I look forward to share those with the Minister and Government in due course . I support the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) . on new clause 9 , I congratulate the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) on her campaign over many year on that important issue . I also support the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee on the amendment that she have table . there be so many thing in this important Bill on which it would be a great pleasure to talk , but you will be relieve to hear , Madam Deputy Speaker , that I wish to focus my remark on the amendment in my name . early this morning , I meet two of my constituent and two people who live about a mile outside my constituency . I pay particular tribute to Hilary and Henry Stinchcombe . Hilary ' s daughter and her daughter be murder by Hilary ' s daughter ' s husband some year ago on the edge of Gloucester . what that family have be through , as they say today , remind they , I and everyone here of how incredibly important it be that criminal justice Bills address some of the most horrific crime that anyone can go through . I be grateful for the Government have do so much work on this issue . I be particularly grateful , speak primarily to amendment 32 to 41 in my name , for have have so much help from so many colleague , whether they be the 23 member who have sign the amendment or the 43 member who have speak in two debate and accompany I in two ten - minute rule Bills , or whether that be the terrific support give by the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who lead a Home Affairs Committee investigation into spike and have give I a huge amount of moral support . spike be an entirely cross - Bench , cross - party , cross - everything issue . it be important , because a bit of legal history be be make . it will be the first ever appearance of the word " spike " in draft law . in the year to August 2022 , which I think be the late datum , the National Police Chiefs ' Council record just under 5 , 000 report case of spiking , divide almost equally into case by needle and drink , with a much small number of other report case , primarily from food . that be why this change matter so much . anyone who do not believe that the word " spike " deserve to be in law be miss a point that be much big than any of we realise . it have be a long journey , as the right hon . Lady allude to . follow she absolutely correct observation that persistence be perhaps the no . 1 thing that any of we in this House need to have if we want to achieve change in legislation , she will be interested to learn that the latin word " Prorsum " be the motto of HMS Gloucester . I take my inspiration from both the latin and english word , and she be right to mention it . it have be a long journey than member from all part of the House might have imagine from the size and scale of the datum . there have be endless meeting with Home Secretaries , safeguard Ministers , Justice Ministers , Select Committee member and other colleague , and those have eventually lead we here . it be almost three year since I first become aware of the importance of the issue — as so often happen to all of we , it be through a constituent — through the experience of my constituent Maisy Farmer and her mother Rosie . what have make the difference to the atmosphere in which Ministers have be able to bring this forward in legislation ? I have no doubt that the ebullient support and anecdotal evidence from Dawn Dines , the founder of stamp out Spiking , and the first - hand experience from member such as my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) and my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) have make a difference . another factor be the fact that the actress who play a spiked heroine in " Coronation Street " be comfortable to come and talk about the huge amount of correspondence she have from play that role . there be also what other , such as the journalist Kate McCann , have be through and be now able to talk about . all these thing have have their influence . today , we have the word " spike " on the front page of the legislation , and that be above all because the Home Secretary and the Justice Secretary get it . in fact , they get it some time back . because the safeguard Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) have research and do the detail , we be able to look at the specific of the legislation be propose . effectively , the Bill update section 23 to 25 of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 with clear , modern , post - Sherlock Holmes language — by the way , I imply no disparagement of the great man or his casework success . but that be exactly what I call for in our January 2023 debate because language matter , behavioural change be a valuable side - effect of legislation , and police record do need to show that spiking be the cause of both the primary and , sometimes , secondary offence . the former police drug lead Jason Harwin specifically say that we need a spike offence in law because that would help to identify the picture more quickly . can the Minister — not the safeguarding Minister but the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire , who be on the Bench , if he can tune in briefly — confirm that the offence cover by these change will be know as " spike " , will come under that umbrella word of " spike " and will be record by the police as such in their datum , so that we can , for the first time , really get an accurate sense of how many case of spike there be , both primary and secondary ? can the Minister also confirm that the Bill will apply equally to both gender and transgender ? can he respond to my concern that the draft legislation may not necessarily cover the point make by the Association of Police and Crime Commissioners that " the creation of a separate criminal offence for spike would send a clear message to perpetrator … and victim " ? if it be not to be a separate offence , can he confirm that that message will be absolutely clear , as well as the method through which it will be relay ? can he also confirm , therefore , that the analysis of the datum and incidence will specifically be about spike and name as such ? that should encourage more victim to come forward . there be also the question of motive . the Bill understandably focus on harmful substance , which be indeed what most spike case involve , but not all . as we know , motivation for spike vary . some element of spike be clearly about create fear and cause humiliation without actually have harmful substance , but that do have a harmful impact . we therefore need to be able to ensure that harmless as well as harmful substance be cover , even though they will waste a lot of potential investigation time . we need to ensure that everyone be clear that so - call harmless substance that be intend to humiliate the victim be not acceptable and will be punish in law . my amendment be design to fill the potential gap by replace language about definitive action — " administer " , " administer " , " attempt " or " attempt " — with an intent to injure , an intent to aggrieve and an attempt to humiliate , make sure that , whether the action actually take place or be prevent , stop or decide not to be launch , the attempt be cover in law . I hope that the Minister will give I the reassurance that the safeguarding Minister imply early from the Dispatch Box in answer to a question that the Criminal Attempts Act 1981 very much cover the attempt to spike as well as the actual spiking . amendment 41 would add to clause 13 the word " to annoy or humiliate the other person , or for the purpose of the entertainment of the person or any other person . " that would cover the non - harmful substance issue — in other word , the act of spike as a lark , for fun or just for amusement . it be not at all funny for the victim involve . those be the main point that I want to highlight . to summarise , all 10 of these amendment seek the same three simple objective : first , to ensure that this section of the amend 1861 Act will be know to the police for their record keeping as " spike offence " ; secondly , to ensure that attempt to spike , even if frustrate , be cover by the Bill and its propose tariff of punishment ; and , thirdly , that attempt to injure , humiliate and be amuse by non - harmless , non - harmful substance spiking be cover . these be probe amendment . if the Minister who be in his place or the safeguarding Minister be able to give I absolute assurance that these aspect be all cover , quote as far as possible from relevant legislation , I will consider not push my amendment to a vote . I believe that all colleague who have support I , include the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North , would accept that situation . ultimately , this be about try to ensure that everyone be clear that spiking be explicitly in the law as a criminal offence , whether the substance be harmful , whether the spiking be successful and whether it be a joke or intend to be a joke . it be an offence that cause mental distress as much as physical harm . if the Minister can convince I on those point , we will have the tool to get to grip with spike and to support parent , the nightlife scene , the police , the NHS , university student and wide society . that would be a fantastic legacy of this Parliament , in line with the Prime Minister ' s commitment to reduce violence against woman and girl , who predominantly be the victim of spiking , and the unstinting work of the Home Secretary , the Justice Secretary and the safeguarding Minister to support we to get spike into law . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) say that it be uncertain whether this legislation would ever reach the statute book , because of the time available to we in the run - up to the general election . I hope that some of the measure to be deal with on day 2 of consideration of the Bill do not get on to the statute book . however , across the House today , there have be an interesting setting of the agenda for the next stage of the debate on the Bill in the Lords and perhaps for the period after the general election . perhaps an incoming Labour Government will have to deal with those issue as well . they reflect a number of concern that we deal with as constituency mp . I congratulate the hon . member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) on table his amendment on spike . it be an issue that affect many of our constituent . I hope that the Government will respond positively and work through the detail . perhaps we can have something in the Lords that overcome some of the Government ' s concern about it . I agree that use the expression " spike " be important , so that people know that we be deal with it . I welcome the amendment table by the hon . member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) . it be important to indicate that my hon . friend the Member for Bradford South ( Judith Cummins ) be also involve in support amendment on this matter . I welcome the cross - party agreement on this issue . the Bill Committee itself also work hard to try to reach consensus on some of the issue . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) be not in his place , but cuckooing have become a critical issue in some of our constituency , where the most vulnerable people have their accommodation take over by drug dealer and feel intimidate . often , they be the most vulnerable , with special educational need or mental health problem . it be a relatively new issue that have come to light in some of our constituency , and it need to be address . on the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) , in a dignified way he do not go into the detail of individual incident , but there have be case in my constituency . we have three youngster — one age 17 and two aged 16 — kill by a hit - and - run driver . the drunk driver be eventually catch . the issue be not just that they break the law but that they do not stick around to help in any way , or even report the incident so that emergency vehicle could get there more quickly to assist those who have be harm . the two issue I want to draw attention to be the one whose campaign I have be involve in . first , my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) table new clause 28 on joint enterprise . I think we be all get long in the tooth on this one . we have be campaign for year — for decade — for some clarity in the law , so that it do not operate as a dragnet that draw people in . in some instance , we have have case where the individual draw in be not at the scene of the crime or be distant from the scene of the crime , yet they have be prosecute for serious crime , often murder . for that reason , the significant contribution of new clause 28 reflect discussion and debate within legal circle but also in the court themselves . it be a simple amendment that would bring some justice to many case where people have , unfortunately , experience what I believe be a miscarriage of justice . secondly , the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) , who be not in his place at the moment , raise the more effective use of the law to tackle hate crime . I convene a meeting of disability group a few week ago . there be a wave of hate crime against disabled people at the moment , on a scale that we have not see for a number of year . we have have incident not just of abuse in the street , but even people be pull out of their wheelchairs . I do not want to be party political here , but I have to say that statement by some individual Ministers about lifestyle choice and benefit and so on have not help . in fact , it have direct some hate crime towards people with disability . we need to recognise that that happen — we should not sweep it under the carpet — so we should have an effective legal response to it . new clause 32 , table by the hon . member , be an effective way of ensure the message go out there to people that hate crime be a serious offence and that if they commit it they will be prosecute and the sanction will be effective and serious . I hope that the Government will accede to new clause 32 , but if he do put it to a vote I shall certainly be vote for it . I want to raise another issue , prison overseas , that I just find preposterous , to be frank . the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , the Chair of the Justice Committee , refer to it and I agree with he . I tend to think it be a stunt . I do not see it as a practical way of deal with the overcrowding problem in our prison . we should deal with they in exactly the way the Justice Committee have be say for a number of year : send few people to prison , in particular those for whom prison be inappropriate — those with mental health problem , drug problem and so on . if we do send people to prison , build appropriate prison so that we can maintain they but , more important , rehabilitate they . this fly in the face of all we know about rehabilitation and everything we have learn over the year . I declare an interest as an honorary life member of the Prison Officers Association . everything we know from the professional involve — probation officer , prison officer and other work within the system — be that to rehabilitate people one of the good thing we can do be , first , make sure they have access to their family . it be their family who urge they to behave , rehabilitate and come out as quickly as possible . secondly , we can ensure they have full access to training and education to rehabilitate . thirdly , we can ensure that they have proper legal advice , so they know the situation they be in and come to term with it , and understand the law as it apply to they . my fear be that , if we depend on prison in foreign country , access to family will be limit — that be inevitable . there be no assurance that I can see that prisoner would receive appropriate training or rehabilitation . access to legal advice within the UK system would inevitably be restrict . this therefore fly in the face of everything we know about how prison should work , and it fly in the face of many of the thing that the Government themselves say about how the system should operate to maintain safety but , at the same time , rehabilitation . a number of amendment and new clause have be table on the basis of professional advice from other . I urge the Government to accept that we should not send abroad prisoner who , within a limited period , will face potential release . I also think that prisoner who have be imprison for public protection should not be doubly harm by be send abroad , and that proper consideration should be give to inspection arrangement . I believe that it will be almost impossible to maintain an appropriate inspection arrangement for both prison and escort service when they be locate abroad , and that if it be maintain , it will be extremely expensive . this be not worth the stunt that it be . it be a short - term measure , and I think that Ministers will have egg on their face at the end of the day . at least the amendment and new clause could ensure that there be proper inspection and regular report to Parliament on how the system be operate , although I wish that the Government be not go ahead with it . as I have say , I do not think the Bill will reach the statute book , but there be a range of issue that we can , on a cross - party basis , take forward into whatever legislation be forthcoming . there be a great many amendment and new clause that I will not mention , because other have do so more effectively , but they have set a very good agenda for a discussion about criminal justice in the future — although I do not think the second day of debate will be as constructive as today have be , because some of those proposal would have an impact on our civil liberty and human right and therefore can not be support . the speech from the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) have serve to demonstrate the extraordinary breadth of the Bill . I have sit hear this afternoon about the incredible work do by my colleague , on both side of the House , on an immense range of issue , and I think that that must underline to our constituent how hard many member work on very , very difficult matter . the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) have call on we to be persistent . she will think that I be a very persistent Member of Parliament when it come to the issue of intimate image abuse , which I have be talk about for nigh on a decade . she be right : we have to be persistent , because it pay off . I want to touch briefly on some of the amendment and new clause that have be discuss today before I turn to new clause 86 . let I first reiterate my support for new clause 2 — table by the Mother of the House , the right hon . and learn Member for Camberwell and Peckham ( Ms Harman ) — which deal with the question of parental responsibility after rape . it be an important new clause , and I hope that minister have listen closely to what have be say . let I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Burton ( Kate Kniveton ) , who have speak out movingly on this issue . the amendment on spike table by my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) be a testament to persistence , and he deserve all our gratitude not only for the work he have do in get his proposal to this stage , but for keep we all so well informed about the work that he be still do . Amendment 160 , table by my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) — the Chair of the Select Committee — have pick up some of the issue that I shall be talk about , namely the way in which we treat non - consensual sexual image . the Government need to do more work on this : " must try hard " be my suggestion . my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) , whose name be attach to new clause 62 , make an extremely moving speech about his proposal for legislation to deal with that most appalling of crime , the sexual abuse of people who have die and be in the safety of a mortuary . new clause 25 and 26 be table by my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) , and I hope that Ministers listen carefully to the compelling case that she make about the rapidity with which the online world be move and the need for we to keep the law up to date . let I now turn to new clause 86 . I be pleased that the Government table it , although they know that this matter need to be address follow the passage of the Online Safety Act 2023 . the new clause show that they continue to understand the importance of classify the making of intimate image without the permission of the person in the picture as a sex crime . yet again , however , we be try to tackle it as though it be more about why the picture be take , rather than about the fact that they be take in the first place . that be the wrong approach , and it be as wrong now as it be when we debate this issue in the Online Safety Bill . I think that we have deal with that argument , but clearly we have not . it be out of scope of the Online Safety Bill to make the making and taking of an intimate image without consent a crime , so I really welcome the fact that the issue be be deal with now . the Online Safety Bill tackle the distribution of those image , but we argue successfully during the passage of that Bill that when it come to sexual offence — new clause 86 create a sexual offence — our law need , first and foremost , to be about consent . it must be about whether there be consent or not , not about whether the perpetrator intend to cause distress or alarm . despite the response to my intervention early , it remain unclear to I why new clause 86 be not construct in the same way as the provision in the Online Safety Act 2023 , give that it will work hand in hand with they . so , what be we talk about ? we be talk particularly about whether it should be a crime for somebody to take or make an intimate sexual image of another person without their consent . at the moment , the Bill say that it will be a crime only if the Crown Prosecution Service can prove beyond reasonable doubt that the person take or make the picture have the intention to cause the victim alarm , distress or humiliation . Mention be make early of online rape , and that be the terminology that many of the victim use . the victim I have speak to be still a victim of that crime , whether or not the perpetrator have the intention to cause they alarm , distress or humiliation . even more concern be the fact that the Government already know from evidence that many of the people who create these image do so not to do harm , cause distress or alarm their victim ; they do it for money . oddly , they sometimes do it for fun . they do it for their mate . they do it because they have a collection of similar picture . all those people who have have nude image create or take be no long victim if a good lawyer can prove that the person take the image have no intention to cause alarm , distress or humiliation . that have to be wrong , and I call on the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire , my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , who be sit on the Front Bench , and the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) , to think again . they have not get this right . the harm lie in create the sexually explicit image without consent . the Bill set out that that be not the way the law will treat this , and that someone will have to prove an intention . there need to be a motive of the perpetrator prove sexual gratification . as all the lawyer in this room know — I be not one of they — that be incredibly difficult . a consent - base approach would focus on the core wrong of non - consensual sexual conduct . motive be not require in most sexual offence . Mention be make early about the way in which some organisation have remove nudification app from their website . I be concerned that they might work out that if they state that their motive be just to make money , they would not be break the law if they allow those nudification app to continue to be available . I be also concern as to whether the Government have talk to Ofcom , the regulator , about how it will be able to limit the appearance of these image , give the way in which the law be currently frame . so , there be two question from I . will the Minister urgently reconsider new clause 86 and bring it into line with the Online Safety Act ? I have a simple idea for she , which be to amend the amendment so that it be consistent with the Online Safety Act in have a base offence that include production of a sexual image , which can include the taking or creating of an image . or , the Government could amend their propose creation offence to make it consent - base , not intention - base . the former I think , be straightforward . secondly , I welcome the fact that some company be take pre - emptive action to remove their nudification app , which I call for in the 2021 International Women ' s Day debate , but they will quickly see that this incredible loophole mean that , so long as they have the right legal defence , such nudification app be entirely within the law . will the Minister tell the House how the Government be go to make these nudification app unlawful , and get rid of they once and for all , as people across the nation want ? I thank Professor Clare McGlynn again for assist I in interpret the intention of Government amendment 86 . it be publish on Thursday , so I apologise to the House for not be able to give a more detailed analysis — I have have it for only the past three day . I hope that , at some stage , Ministers will be in a position to explain their thinking and , I hope , change their mind . I know the safeguarding Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Newbury have put in writing that she want to send a " crystal clear message " that make intimate image material be " immoral " and " a crime . " she need to try hard to make sure the Bill do just that . I rise to make a short speech in support of new clause 9 , in the name of the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) . I thank she for her kind word about my friend and constituent Maxine and Tony . Maxine Thompson - Curl lose her son , Kristian David Thompson , in 2011 . he be just 19 year old , and his life be take by one punch . one punch can and do kill . to lose a love one at a young age in such a senseless way , when they be simply on a night out , be a pain that I can not imagine . since Kristian ' s pass , Maxine have devote her life to raise awareness , support other and campaign for strong sentencing . she have do this via her charity one Punch UK , which she run with her husband Anthony Curl . use her pain , love and grief , Maxine have always be relentless in educate people to stop , think and walk away instead of use their fist . although it be generally accept that there be a concern rise in one - punch attack across the UK , there be no official figure on the life lose and devastate by a single punch . what we do know be that , almost every time a precious life be take in this way , it be report that the perpetrator be intoxicate , and their sentence for take the life of another be almost always extremely lenient . the average sentence be four year , and some walk away after just four month in prison . that be four month for take somebody else ' s life . justice be an important cornerstone of our legal system . although nothing at all can bring back a love one , for many people an important part of be able to grieve be know that there be consequence for the person who take their love one away from they . new clause 9 would put an end to lenient sentence and would hopefully act as a deterrent , so that people think and walk away before use their fist . it would also mean that we have reliable datum on the prevalence of one - punch attack . in the first four year after similar legislation be pass in Australia , the number of one - punch death halve . one australian attorney general have report a massive reduction in violence since the legislation be introduce . More than five year ago , the then Minister say that he be happy to look at my proposal in relation to one - punch sentencing , and I be pleased that the Government have look at this new clause and agree with the hon . member for Bishop Auckland , but my constituent remain of the view that strong sentencing be need . it be indeed what they have campaign on for many year . with that in mind , I carefully consider the Minister ' s response to the new clause in Committee , and I be not fully convinced of her argument . she state that one - punch attack be already cover under manslaughter , but there be no mandatory minimum sentence for manslaughter and therefore no minimum sentence for one - punch attack . that be why we ask for that in the new clause . she state that the Government wish to avoid " anomaly in the law " , and give the example of someone be kill by a punch to their abdomen . she will know , as will other hon . member , that a single punch to the head be likely to be more catastrophic than a single punch to the abdomen , as it can cause fatal damage to the brain ; it can stop breathe , starve the brain of oxygen , and cause the victim to collapse and strike their head on a hard surface . the Minister also state that the Government wish to avoid another anomaly in case where someone be kill by two or more punch , as oppose to one . surely those case would be view as involve intent to cause serious harm , whereas one punch could sometimes be view as a mistake , and thus result in a more lenient sentence , as we so often see . I sincerely hope that she can address those concern in her closing comment . Maxine tell I this week that she know full well that the new clause may not be accept by the Government today , but she be thankful for any awareness , and to have the issue raise again on the Floor of the House , because she know the life - shatter damage that one punch can cause . before I end , I pay tribute again to the hon . member for Bishop Auckland — I be sure that she will be in her place again very soon — for her bravery and determination in push the Government to do the right thing for those who be no long with we , and for those leave grieve for they . as the Minister say in her opening comment , I be sure that the hon . Lady ' s dad be look on with pride . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . this have be a wide - range debate , because it be a wide - range Bill , and it have touch on a number of difficult , sometimes sensitive and complex topic . however , the tone of the debate do the House a great deal of credit . I appreciate the tone and approach take by both Front - Bench team ; there be more common ground than not on a number of these area . let we see what we can do to improve thing . I particularly appreciate the approach adopt by our Minister today , whose engagement have be exceptional on all these matter ; I be grateful to she . let I deal with some of the amendment . I certainly congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) on his work on cuckooing , which be a real issue ; I have see it in my constituency . we have a gap in the law that we need to plug . I also endorse what be say by my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) about new clause 86 and related matter . the concept of consent be perfectly well establish in the law on sexual offence , and there would be nothing abnormal in make consent , rather than motive , the gravaman of the offence in question . in fact , that approach would bring they more into line with the rest of the canon of sexual offence . I really hope that the Government will think hard about that . obviously , I take on board the point make about the amendment that my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) speak to , and the powerful speech make by my right hon . friend the Member for Tunbridge Wells ( Greg Clark ) about the desecration of corpse . that be a vile concept , and clearly the law need to be amend . I will concentrate on two matter that the Justice Committee have examine over a period , the first be the provision on the transfer of prisoner to serve sentence in prison overseas . I make it clear that I be sceptical about the efficacy of that measure . I do not say it be unlawful , and I do not think the opposition be say that either . I accept that it have happen in limited circumstance elsewhere , include in state that be party to the european convention on human right . the most obvious example be Belgium rent prison space in the Netherlands , but there have also be an example in Norway and Scandinavia . however , our situation be very different . those two instance highlight the limited value of such arrangement . the prison space that Belgium rent in Holland be very close by — in some case , it be literally up the road — and there be a similar situation in the scandinavian country . in addition , those country be in the Schengen area . those instance be not the same as transfer people overseas , some distance away . the practical implication , which the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and other refer to , will get in the way of the proposal achieve anything . I be grateful to the Minister for recognise some of the concern raise by Opposition Front Benchers and the Law Society . it be imperative that proper legal advice be available . it be important that there be an inspection regime that ensure parity of standard with those in United Kingdom prison . again , I stress the importance of maintain family tie . the Minister follow these thing very closely , so she will know that the evidence overwhelmingly show , time and again , that the three good thing for get people to turn their life around and not reoffend be a roof over their head , a home , and a family or relationship . if a family relationship or close family tie of any kind be undermine , it make it more likely that people will reoffend . give the number of safeguard that will have to be put in place — to safeguard not just convention right , to which the Minister rightly refer , but common law right , which predate the convention and our incorporation of it into our domestic law through the Human Rights Act 1998 — it be highly unlikely that anyone will ever end up go abroad . I would much rather we concentrate on more direct measure to deal with the crisis of overcrowding in our prison . the overseas jail cell measure will not make any difference to the pressure on prison place , or any contribution to long - term demand . if we want to return foreign national prisoner abroad , it would be much well to speed up our prisoner return agreement and get those prisoner to serve their sentence in their home country . that would be constructive . we already have the measure and the legal framework to do that ; we just need to be much more rigorous in our use of they . if we really want to deal with overcrowding in our prison , the Government and the business manager need to get a grip and bring the Sentencing Bill back to the Floor of the House . that Bill contain valuable , sensible and balanced measure that deal with public protection properly . it provide a far well suite of measure to reduce unproductive form of imprisonment , and concentrate the very expensive resource of prison where it be most need : on violent , dangerous and serious offender . that would be a far great contribution . I pay massive tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) for her work in this area . as a lawyer , during my time at the criminal bar , I have both prosecute and defend one - punch manslaughter case . I fully understand the impact on family ; I have sometimes have to talk to family who have have to accept manslaughter charge . with great respect to my hon . friend , I do not think the wording of her new clause , as it stand , would meet what be require to deal with this . I be concerned that we be look at the offence in a piecemeal fashion . unlawful act manslaughter be a legally complex area . it be often not easy for jury to understand ; it be not even easy for judge look at the factual situation to direct on . that be highlight recently in the Court of Appeal decision in the case of Auriol Grey , the severely autistic and disabled lady whose action , tragically , cause an elderly cyclist to fall off her bicycle into the path of a car and be kill . she be originally convict on the basis of unlawful act manslaughter . a very strong Court of Appeal quash that conviction , which highlight some of difficulty in such case . I be interested in the comment of the hon . and learn Member . as the Bill go to the House of Lords , will he work with I and other who be concerned about one - punch attack to draft something that he think would do what it be suppose to , and be more legally sound ? I be always happy to talk about it . it be my conviction that a single piece of legislation purely on one - punch manslaughter be not the answer . if there be to be legislation , it should be a wholesale reform of the law of homicide . the Law Commission recommend a reform of the law of homicide as long ago as 2006 , but that be not act on . that would deal with not just the issue of unlawful act manslaughter , but the other form of manslaughter , include gross negligence manslaughter , reckless manslaughter and the interplay between murder and manslaughter ; manslaughter be often an alternative verdict . then of course we have the special defence in relation to diminish responsibility , which reduce , under certain circumstance , murder down to manslaughter . that be a slightly complicated field . the law be difficult for jury to follow , and we oftentime use law that go back to almost the 17th and 18th century . as for the right way forward , we should do two thing . first , all the work be do around the information campaign , include one - punch awareness and the " walk away " message , take exactly the right approach . secondly , we should look again , cross party , at a wholesale reform of the law of homicide , which could pick up those issue . joint enterprise remain a problem . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) for the work that she have do , and for her amendment . I be not convince that its wording be right , but we have to return to this matter , for the very important reason that many family of those who have be convict under joint enterprise have hope that the Supreme Court decision in the case of Jogee , which reverse what it describe as the wrong turn take in the case of Chan Wing - Siu in 1985 , would see a number of people ' s conviction quash . in reality , subsequent decision of the Court of Appeal have tend to narrow the approach in Jogee , very often because of the factual situation , which vary greatly . we do therefore need to look at this issue . I be not sure that the wording in the amendment be the answer , but I hope that we can work constructively on that . there be certain circumstance in which there be a role for joint enterprise , but the expansion of it beyond what most people regard as reasonable be a matter of real concern . I hope we can continue to work cross party to find a well solution . a concern that the Government have raise previously when joint enterprise have be consider be the use of the word " significant " , and the term " significant contribution " . the Government have argue that that be too vague . do my hon . and learn Friend agree that " significant " be commonly use in criminal justice , and that judge and magistrate be very experienced in advise jury or lawyer on decide what " significant " mean ? the Government need to come up with something a little more compelling than the suggestion that " significant " be not a meaningful word . I entirely agree with my hon . friend . " significant " be a good starting point for the work that we need to do . the intellectually rather convoluted approach that we have to joint enterprise at the moment be really not tenable . a jury will understand " significant " . if we be to have an indictable offence , we need a test that a jury will readily comprehend . " significant " be comprehensible to juror . in light of today ' s debate and the discussion that we have over several week in Committee , do the hon . and learn Gentleman agree that there be a lacuna in legislation in a whole range of area ? I think he be suggest that we need a cross - party approach , but time be run out . do he think that certain thing could be push through , but not in a rushed fashion ; they would be consider carefully in the Chamber ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s sentiment . many of these matter will require consideration — and , on the homicide angle , the involvement , I hope , of the Law Commission . it could be ask to revisit its report of 2006 . in fact , I hope that will be do , whatever the party in government . the same be true in relation to sentencing for one - punch manslaughter . I be cautious about minimum sentence generally . I understand the feeling that sentencing be sometimes too low , but at the moment manslaughter can encompass a huge range of fact and degree of culpability . any sentencer have to balance the consequence of the act against the level of culpability of the offender . the huge range in culpability create a difficulty with minimum sentence . it would be well to ask the Sentencing Council to review the matter . if that be do in the knowledge that there will be a cross - party approach , it will carry more weight and give we well outcome . finally , I will touch on the production of defendant in the dock to hear a sentence pass . it be a sensitive issue . the sense of outrage among victim and family when people refuse to come up into the dock be perfectly understandable . it be cock a snook at the system , and at the suffering and grief of the victim and family , but there be practical issue that we have to bear in mind . the Government ought to look at some of the safeguard that have be propose , particularly give our duty of care to prison staff . I pay tribute to our prison staff , who take risk every day in prison . it be even hard in the hold cell of a court , and the passageway up to the court and into the dock . anyone who have be in a dock , as some of we have many time — professionally — will know that they be tight space . it be not easy . staff do not have the same defensive and protective arrangement that they would have in a prison . if those staff be contractor , who may not do it on a regular basis , there be real risk . we do not want those people to come to harm . we must also ensure that ultimate discretion as to what be appropriate always lie with the judge , because the last thing we want for victim ' family be for psychopathic or extremely aggressive defendant to try to hijack the sentencing proceeding and use their presence in court to turn up the bile , anger , rage or , in some case that we have see , political posturing — for example , in terrorist case . it be terribly important that the judge have the ultimate say in all these matter . I hope that I have encompass most of the issue raise . there be other that we do not have time to touch on . I see that my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) be still present . I hope that the Government will think about his new clause 32 . I look at the Law Commission ' s report . it be carefully reason and moderately express , and I hope that the Government will find the mean , either in this House or in the other place , for further discussion , and will take his legitimate concern on board . there have be good progress with the Bill . it be well for what it do not include , in some case ; we will come to that on day 2 . much of what it do include have be improve , but it highlight the complexity that face the criminal justice system as a whole . we always have to be careful not to tinker when sometimes we need a more holistic approach and , of course , the resource to go with it , which be the other key thing that we need . I be grateful to all those who speak in the debate , and to the Minister for the constructive tone that she have adopt throughout . this have indeed be a wide - range debate — we use that phrase too often in this place , but it be true today — and it be a pleasure to bring it to a close . I be grateful to all hon . member who take part . in the time available to I , I will seek to respond on as many of the non - Government new clause and amendment as I can , and to answer question . if I fail , please give I a nudge . I will then write to hon . member or catch up with they at some point and give they a response . I will begin with new clause 9 , pick up where I leave off . I be address my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) and her excellent campaign . let I set out the step that the Government be take . she allude to they in her excellent speech , but I will confirm what they be . we have work with the National Police Chiefs ' Council lead for homicide , Kate Meynell , to appoint a name lead for one - punch homicide . that person will carry out an initial scoping exercise to properly establish how many of these case be occur , and to understand whether there be barrier to investigation and prosecution for these offence . I take my hon . friend ' s point that we should consider how the offence be communicate to the family , give the particular issue that arise in her case . we will also build on action already take , include the three - month Walk Away campaign that be launch in December 2023 . that dovetail very neatly with the work of one Punch UK . I know that that be something my hon . friend will be involve in . we will establish a low - culpability manslaughter homicide service practice review , lead by Victim Support , which deliver the homicide service . the review will consider case of manslaughter where there be low culpability , and I look forward to work with my hon . friend and get start on that . we will also conduct individual sentence review into particular case where there be an objection to the end of the sentence , and we will look at the sentencing remark . she give the name of a number of campaigner in her speech , and I look forward to pick those up with she . I will comment briefly on new clause 28 , relate to joint enterprise , which be raise by the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) , by my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) , the Chair of the Justice Committee , and by other . the new clause would caveat and curtail the law of joint enterprise only to those who have make a significant contribution . the hon . member for Liverpool , Riverside know that joint enterprise be there so that those who act as the burglary lookout , who provide the weapon in the murder or who drive the getaway vehicle do not escape the consequence of their crime , which shatter live . it be already the case , follow the Supreme Court decision in r v . Jogee , that the person must have help or encourage the commission of the offence and intend to do so . I have consider a number of example of case where there have be conviction on this basis in recent year , such as the boy who send a WhatsApp to his colleague to encourage she to conduct a fatal attack or the 14 - year - old lad who stand on the edge of a woodland as lookout while his friend gang - rape a girl . they be very painful case . I will simply say this : I think that people who participate in crime , even on the periphery , should not escape liability , and I do not think anyone can advance a credible argument that they should . we on the Government side still think that those people ought to be lock up . I admit that , and I have not say that we should get rid of joint enterprise , but we know that thousand of young people and child have be incarcerate for something they have not do . the law be not be use in the way it should be , as the hon . and learn Member for Bromley and Chislehurst ( Sir Robert Neill ) mention in respect of the Jogee case . we take a wrong turn and we have take another wrong turn . we need to get it right . I be go to respectfully differ from the hon . Lady . I be happy to have another conversation with she about it , but I be afraid that even those on the periphery often have their hand all over the crime . I will return briefly to new clause 59 on bladed article , which be table by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Nottingham North ( Alex Norris ) . the issue of ninja sword be raise by the other shadow Minister , the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) . I want to provide reassurance that both straight - blade ninja sword , which the new clause be direct at , and curved sword be cover . curved sword be ban by the Government in 2008 , and he will know that possess a sword or any knife — even a kitchen knife — in a public place without good reason be already a criminal offence , punishable by up to four year in prison . the reason why straight sword be more difficult to ban be that some of they be hold by military historian and for commemorative purpose . however , I want to provide reassurance to those on the shadow Front Bench that the Policing Minister engage recently with the NPCC lead on knife crime , who reassure he once again that the NPCC be not seek a ban on the use of straight - bladed sword . in fact , of all the knife crime fatality in the last year , around 1 % be cause that way . what the NPCC be ask for be a clampdown on the online sale of knife to under - 18 , which we be do under the Online Safety Act ; the power to seize knife in a private place if the police think they will be use for a criminal purpose , which be already in the Bill ; and a ban on machete and zombie knife , which we be bring in in September . I want to provide that reassurance . new clause 25 and 26 be introduce by my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) , who I can not see , but I be sure — she have just pop out . she have just pop out . she make an outstanding speech , which illuminate and identify yet more of the nefarious way that child abuser find to conduct some of the most serious offence against child . she know , as be clear in her constructive speech , that artificial intelligence raise unique problem . I agree without hesitation with the force of what she say , and about the identification of an offence as she have present it . I recognise that it be our duty as parliamentarian to future - proof our legislation , and I thank she for her detailed work on this issue . I commit to work with she and to try as good we can to get something ready for Report in the other place . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) for the sensitive and thoughtful way in which he approach the Law Commission ' s report and the issue of hate crime , and for his new clause 32 to introduce protect characteristic to the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 . of course , I have read the Law Commission ' s excellent report on this matter , and I can confirm that a response to it be always forthcoming this year . I want to make two slight qualification that might explain some of the delay . many member will be aware that the Law Commission do not recommend make sex a protect characteristic for hate crime , and may remember that there be a campaign to make misogyny a hate crime , which the commission reject . that require careful thought , because not all the protect characteristic have be treat in the same way . another issue be the implementation of the hate crime legislation in Scotland , which have be both highly contentious and , I be afraid , somewhat chaotic . of course , we wish to avoid replicate those mistake . however , I want to provide reassurance by say that our intention be to deal with this matter — subject to all the normal approval — in the House of Lords , and I hope that my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington will come and work with I on it . the other excellent speech that I want to refer to be that of my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) . she alight on two important issue — cyber - flash and intimate image abuse — that be not on the priority offence list in schedule 7 to the Online Safety Act 2023 . that be not because we do not consider they important or sinister offence — she will need no persuading , give everything that we have do on intimate image abuse , that the opposite be true . the fact be that they be not on the statute book , or certainly have not be commence , when we pass the 2023 Act . I know that the Secretary of State be well aware of that , particularly in relation to both those issue . I know that my right hon . friend be conduct an urgent review as we speak , and I be sure that , in the week ahead , I will be able to update she on where we be on this . I do not want she to think for a moment that we be drag our foot . I appreciate that my hon . friend be seek to give I an assurance from the Dispatch Box , but it be perhaps not quite as fulsome as I would wish . she say that the priority offence register can be review . it would be very helpful if we have a specific timescale by which the measure could be add . that would give reassurance to all victim that such image will be make illegal in their in own right , and that Ofcom and internet service provider will work together to take they down . we already have the criminal offence , so the perpetrator can go to prison , but the victim want the image — the repeat offence — to be remove from the internet . I listen very carefully to what my right hon . Friend say , and I agree with every single word of it . some of this sit with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , as she know , so I would need to have a conversation with the relevant Minister , but I feel as strongly as she do on this matter , and I assure she from the Dispatch Box that I will use my good endeavour . the road traffic amendment , which I will talk about briefly , be beautifully present during the Committee and again today . I have speak a few time with the Members who table they , who be well aware that those matter sit with the Department for Transport . I understand that they have have engagement with the Department and that an important review of this issue have certainly be contemplate . I apologise to my hon . friend — I be briefly out of the Chamber , discuss my amendment with the Home Secretary . it be clear that AI technology be move incredibly quickly in a vile , disgusting way that be put child at risk of sexual abuse . could my hon . friend repeat the commitment she have give : that she will work with I on the two area that my amendment have highlight , and will work with I , the IWF and other to ensure that the issue we have pinpoint be address as the Bill go through this House and the Lords ? I thank my right hon . friend for her intervention , and I be sorry that we somehow do not manage to overlap when I make my comment about she . I think her speech be outstanding , and I agree without hesitation : she be quite right to say that we need to future - proof our legislation . as I say , I think we be the first country — if not , we be one of the first — to put an offence on to the book relate to the creation of deepfake , which show that we be alive and very responsive to this issue . I will make the commitment that my right hon . friend have request . to be clear , be the Minister give a cast - iron guarantee that we will address these issue of paedophile manual and use a chatbot to communicate sexually , include rape a child through a chatbot , by work with the IWF and other to ensure that the law be clear , and that if necessary , there will be amendment in the Lords ? yes , I can give my right hon . friend that commitment . I be interrupt , but I be briefly pay tribute to the very passionate speech that have be make about road traffic accident . these be not small matter — the case of the little girl in the constituency of the hon . member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney ( Gerald Jones ) be such a painful one , and I know that the Transport Secretary and other Ministers have be very affect by it . as the hon . member know , this matter be not straightforward for reason that we have discuss , but I hope progress will be make on it in a way that help his constituent . my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) make an excellent speech on the offence of cause death or serious injury by dangerous , careless or inconsiderate cycling . it be not in dispute that whether a vehicle be a car , an electric scooter or a bicycle , if it be operate in a certain way , it be effectively a dangerous weapon on the road . we be supportive of my right hon . friend ' s amendment , and we will be bring it back in the Lords ; we will be change it in the Lords , as he know , but we be accept it . I think I have cover all the amendment that have be select . I assume that my hon . Friend mean that she will accept the amendment when I move it . yes , I do mean that . the final amendment that I will speak to are new clause 91 and 92 , relate to a new criminal sanction on water company . everyone in this House want to ensure that our water regulator have at their disposal all the tool they need to get on top of the sewage discharge issue , but as the Minister sum up , could she explain to the House whether Ofwat already have the power be seek in the amendment table by the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) ? if the same power be give to the Environment Agency , that would be more likely to lead to confusion and a lack of clarity about which agency be take the lead on such prosecution , which might lead to prosecution fall through the crack . my right hon . friend be quite correct : that be the basis on which the Government can not accept the amendment . of course , everybody agree that water company should be punish as robustly as possible , but it be also the case that we have pre - exist offence that apply . pollution incident be already the subject of criminal sanction available to the Environment Agency under the Environmental Permitting ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2016 , and there be a serious risk of duplication , not least because — I hope the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) will not mind my say this — the sanction he have include in his amendment be just more fine , and we already have a fine regime . let I set out very briefly the basis on which , in a principled way , we be say no to the amendment . as the environment regulator , the Environment Agency can and do prosecute company director and other senior officer under the relevant regulation . it have a power to fine , and there can be conviction for pollute river and coastal water , where it can be prove that the offence have be commit . expand criminal liability would simply create a repetition of the exist power . it be the Government ' s view that the amendment would create a dangerous and unacceptable risk of double jeopardy across the two regulatory regime that be administer by Ofwat and the Environment Agency . the amendment would simply duplicate the exist sanction , as my right hon . friend the Member for Ludlow ( Philip Dunne ) put it , for not meet performance commitment . more seriously , they could undermine the robustness of the Environment Agency ' s criminal sanction regime . on that basis , I hope the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale will understand why we do not want to see duplication in an area where there be already the capacity to prosecute , a criminal law regime and the sanction of fine , which be everything that his amendment seek . I fear the Minister be come to the end of her remark , but she have not address my new clause 44 . do she have any comment on it ? I thank the hon . Lady for remind I , but I have not forget . I listen carefully to her speech and I have read all her amendment , not all of which be select , but some of which she have raise before . on the general defence , she will know that the Law Commission be currently undertake a review of the defence of duress in relation to woman and the crime — it be not that amendment . I know that the amendment have not be select , but I want to provide the hon . Lady with some reassurance on it , because we on this side of the House continue to think about the issue she have raise . she be aware of the Law Commission ' s review of the defence of duress as it apply to murder . I want to provide she with an update and some reassurance that we will take the lesson that come out of that review , and consider it more widely , if appropriate , in alignment with the point that I think she make early in this debate . on new clause 44 , this be an important point between we , but the Government be resist it not because there be any real dispute of principle , but because there be dispute of degree . there be a concern that by amend the wording of section 52 and 53 of the Sexual Offences Act , as so draft , we could unnecessarily narrow the scope of section 52 as it have be apply in the criminal court and potentially add an additional element to be prove in relation to section 53 that could make prosecution hard . we disagree not on the principle but about whether it will have the effect she be look for . I do listen carefully to her speech and the way that she have present the argument on previous occasion . the safeguarding Minister will have be brief by my right hon . friend the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire on the exchange across the House on the key issue of spiking , which will make its first ever appearance in legislation if the Bill be pass . I ask specific question , which I would be grateful if she return to . although my amendment will not be pursue , it would be reassure for everyone in the country if she say that the spike clause now inject will cover attempt to spike as well as prove spike , and will apply to spike attempt that may not be consider harmful in substance but be incredibly harmful to the people they humiliate . yes , I can confirm that those inchoate offence — attempt offence — be all capture in the 1981 Act to which I refer in my opening speech . on whether name the offence of spiking will improve police record keeping , I say to my hon . friend that it will absolutely do that . it will remove the discrepancy between what might have be call date rape under the Sexual Offences Act and what would have be record previously as a poison act under the Offences against the Person Act . for consistency in recording , we be very pleased to make the change . I thank the Minister for give way again . on that specific point , she be effectively say that the datum collect by the police will now be collect under the umbrella of spiking , so we will have much well datum and know how widespread the problem really be , which I think everyone will be reassure to hear . may I also thank she , the Home Secretary and the Justice Secretary for their fantastic and immediate support in get this provision into the Bill , which I very much hope will pass through this Parliament before the next general election ? it be not just the effect of the amendment that will improve police recording ; one purpose of the amendment be to improve police recording and it will give , I hope , a much more accurate picture of the extent of the problem . on the comment that my right hon . friend the Member for Basingstoke ( Dame Maria Miller ) make regard the creation offence relate to deepfake image and intent , I will consider the point carefully . I would like to have further discussion on it . I hope the Minister be listen to the Chair of the Justice Committee , who wholeheartedly agree with the point I be make , namely that it would be entirely consistent with the sex offence law to remove intent from that measure and simply focus on consent . that be what we need to hear , and I hope the Minister will now agree at the Dispatch Box that she will consider that strongly . I certainly give my right hon . friend that reassurance . I look forward to continue our discussion throughout the passage of the Bill . question put and agree to . new clause 86 accordingly read a second time and add to the Bill . New Clause 62 - Sexual Activity with a corpse ( 1 ) in the Sexual Offences Act 2003 for section 70 substitute — " 70 sexual activity with a corpse ( 1 ) a person commit an offence if — ( a ) the person intentionally perform an act of touching ( with a part of their body or anything else ) , ( b ) what be touch be a part of the body of a dead person , ( c ) the person know that , or be reckless as to whether , that be what be touch , and ( d ) the touching be sexual . ( 2 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the general limit in a magistrate ' court or a fine ( or both ) ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed — ( i ) if the touching involve penetration of a part of the body mention in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) , 7 year ; ( ii ) otherwise , 5 year . " ( 2 ) in consequence of the amendment make by subsection ( 1 ) , in the follow provision for " sexual penetration of " substitute " sexual activity with " — paragraph 152 of Schedule 15 to the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ; paragraph 35 of Schedule 3 to the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ; paragraph 33 of Schedule 4 to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 ; paragraph 38 ( ba ) of Schedule 18 to the Sentencing Code . " — ( Laura Farris . ) this new clause replace the offence under section 70 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 with an offence that cover any intentional touching of a corpse that be sexual , and increase the maximum sentence of imprisonment for an offence involve penetration to 7 year and in other case to 5 year . it be propose to add the new clause after clause 15 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 87 - Manslaughter : sexual conduct aggravate factor " ( 1 ) in chapter 3 of Part 4 of the Sentencing Code ( seriousness and determine sentence ) , after section 72 insert — " 72a manslaughter involve sexual conduct ( 1 ) in consider the seriousness of an offence of manslaughter involve sexual conduct , the court must — ( a ) treat the fact that the offence involve sexual conduct as an aggravating factor , and ( b ) state in open court that the offence be so aggravated . ( 2 ) this section have effect in relation to a person who be convict of an offence on or after the date on which section ( manslaughter : sexual conduct aggravate factor ) of the Criminal Justice Act 2024 come into force . " ( 2 ) in section 238 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 ( decide the seriousness of an offence ) , after subsection ( 8 ) ( insert by section 23 ) insert — " ( 9 ) in section 72a of the Sentencing Code ( manslaughter involve sexual conduct ) — ( a ) the reference to an offence of manslaughter be to be read as include a reference to an offence under section 42 as respect which the correspond offence under the law of England and Wales be manslaughter , and ( b ) the reference to a court be to be read as include a court deal with an offender for a service offence . " . " — ( Laura Farris . ) this new clause make the fact that an offence of manslaughter involve sexual conduct an aggravating factor ( as well as make the same provision as regard the correspond service offence . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 88 - length of terrorism sentence with fix licence period : Northern Ireland " ( 1 ) in article 7 of the Criminal Justice ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2008 ( S . I . 2008 / 1216 ( N . I . 1 ) ) — ( a ) in paragraph ( 2 ) omit " Articles 13A , 14 and 15a and " ; ( b ) in paragraph ( 3 ) before sub - paragraph ( a ) insert — " ( za ) Articles 13a and 14 of this order ; " . " ( 2 ) the amendment make by this section apply in relation to conviction occur on or after the day on which this section come into force . " — ( Laura Farris . ) this new clause result in article 7 ( 2 ) of the Criminal Justice ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2008 ( requirement that term of sentence be commensurate with seriousness ) apply to a sentence under Article 15a of that order ( terrorism sentence with fix licence period ) . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 89 - review of sentencing : time limit " ( 1 ) schedule 3 to the Criminal Justice Act 1988 ( review of sentencing - supplementary ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 1 ( time limit for notice of application for leave to refer a case ) — ( a ) the exist provision become sub - paragraph ( 1 ) of that paragraph ; ( b ) at the end of that sub - paragraph insert " ( " the relevant period " ) ; but in England and Wales this be subject to sub - paragraph ( 2 ) . " ; ( c ) after that sub - paragraph insert — " ( 2 ) where — ( a ) the Attorney General receive a request to review the sentencing of a person , and ( b ) the request be receive in the last 14 day of the relevant period , notice of an application for leave to refer the case in question to the Court of Appeal under section 36 may be give within 14 day from the day on which the request be receive . ( 3 ) for the purpose of this Part , a certificate of the Attorney General as to the date on which a request to review the sentencing of a person be receive be conclusive evidence of that fact . ( 4 ) where more than one request to review the sentencing of a person be receive , reference in sub - paragraph ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) to a request be to the first request that be receive . " ( 3 ) in paragraph 12 ( application of schedule to Northern Ireland ) , after paragraph ( d ) insert — " ( da ) paragraph 1 have effect as if sub - paragraph ( 2 ) to ( 4 ) be omit ; " . " — ( Laura Farris . ) this new clause provide that where the Attorney General receive a request to review a person ' s sentence in the last 14 day of the current period for give any notice of application for leave to refer the case to the Court of Appeal , the Attorney General may give such notice within 14 day from the date the request be receive . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 94 - cuckooing " ( 1 ) a person commit an offence if they — ( a ) exercise control over the dwelling of another person , and ( b ) do so for the purpose of enable the dwelling to be use in connection with the commission ( by any person ) of one or more offence list in Schedule ( Cuckooing : specify offence ) . ( 2 ) it be a defence for a person charge with an offence under this section to prove that the person mention in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) consent to the exercise of control for the purpose mention in subsection ( 1 ) ( b ) . ( 3 ) section ( cuckooing : interpretation ) contain provision about the interpretation of this section . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation amend Schedule ( Cuckooing : specify offence ) . ( 5 ) a person who commit an offence under this section be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to imprisonment for a term not exceed the general limit in a magistrate ' court or a fine ( or both ) ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 5 year or a fine ( or both ) . " — ( Laura Farris . ) this clause , together with NC95 and NS4 , create an offence of exercise control over another person ' s dwelling , for the purpose of enable it to be use in connection with the commission of certain offence . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 95 - Cuckooing : interpretation " ( 1 ) this section supplement section ( Cuckooing ) . ( 2 ) a reference to " the dwelling of a person " be to any structure or part of a structure occupy by the person as their home or other living accommodation ( whether the occupation be separate or share with other ) , together with any yard , garden , ground , garage or outhouse belong to it or use with it . ( 3 ) in subsection ( 2 ) " structure " include a tent , caravan , vehicle , vessel or other temporary or movable structure . ( 4 ) the circumstance in which a person " exercise control over the dwelling of another person " ( b ) include circumstance where the person exercise control ( whether temporarily or permanently ) over any of the following — ( a ) who be able to enter , leave , occupy or otherwise use the dwelling or part of the dwelling ; ( b ) the delivery of thing to , or the collection of thing from , the dwelling ; ( c ) the way in which , or the purpose for which , the dwelling or part of the dwelling be use ; ( d ) the ability of b to use the dwelling or part of the dwelling for b ' s own purpose . ( 5 ) for the purpose of section ( Cuckooing ) ( 2 ) , a person be regard as " consent " to the exercise of control for the purpose mention in section ( Cuckooing ) ( 1 ) ( b ) only if — ( a ) they be age 18 or over , ( b ) they have capacity ( within the meaning of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 ) to give consent to the exercise of control for that purpose , ( c ) they be give sufficient information to enable they to make an informed decision about whether to consent , ( d ) they give consent freely , and ( e ) the consent be not withdraw . " — ( Laura Farris . ) see the statement for NC94 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 103 - restrict parental responsibility when sentence for rape of a child " ( 1 ) the Children Act 1989 be amend in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) to ( 5 ) . ( 2 ) in section 10a ( insert by section ( restrict parental responsibility where one parent kill the other ) ( 3 ) of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 ) — ( a ) for subsection ( 1 ) substitute — " ( 1 ) this section apply where the Crown Court be sentence — ( a ) a person ( " the offender " ) who be a parent with parental responsibility for a child ( " the child " ) for the murder or , in the circumstance mention in subsection ( 2 ) , manslaughter of the child ' s other parent ; ( b ) a person ( " the offender " ) who have parental responsibility for a child ( " the child " ) for an offence under section 1 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 ( rape ) against a child or under section 5 of that Act ( rape of a child under 13 ) . " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) , for " when sentence the offender " substitute " with respect to the child " ; ( c ) in subsection ( 5 ) ( b ) , for " offender be convict of manslaughter " substitute " Crown Court be sentence the offender for manslaughter " ; ( d ) in subsection ( 7 ) , for " murder or manslaughter " substitute " offence " ; ( e ) after subsection ( 9 ) insert — " ( 10 ) in subsection ( 1 ) " sentencing " be to be read in accordance with the Sentencing Code ( see section 401 of the Code ) . " ( 3 ) in section 10b ( insert by section ( restrict parental responsibility where one parent kill the other ) ( 3 ) of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 ) — ( a ) in subsection ( 1 ) , for " parent " substitute " person " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) , for " parent be acquit on appeal of the murder or manslaughter " substitute " person be acquit on appeal of the offence " . ( 4 ) in section 33 ( 3A ) ( insert by section ( restrict parental responsibility where one parent kill the other ) ( 5 ) of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 ) , in both place , for " parent " substitute " person " . ( 5 ) in section 91 — ( a ) in subsection ( 5B ) ( insert by section ( restrict parental responsibility where one parent kill the other ) ( 6 ) ( b ) of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 ) — ( i ) in paragraph ( a ) , for " parent ( " p " ) with respect to a child ( " C " ) " substitute " person with respect to a child " ; ( ii ) in paragraph ( b ) , for " p with respect to c " substitute " the person with respect to the child " ; ( b ) in subsection ( 5c ) ( insert by section ( restrict parental responsibility where one parent kill the other ) ( 6 ) ( b ) of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 ) , for " p with respect to c " substitute " the person with respect to the child " . ( 6 ) in section 379 of the Sentencing Act 2020 ( other behaviour order etc ) , after subsection ( 1 ) insert — " ( 1A ) see section 10a ( 1 ) of the Children Act 1989 for circumstance in which the Crown Court may be require to make a prohibit step order when deal with an offender for murder , manslaughter or the rape of a child . " " — ( Laura Farris . ) this new clause expand the circumstance in which the Crown Court must make a prohibit step order under section 10a of the Children Act 1989 ( insert by the Victims and Prisoners Bill ) to case where a person with parental responsibility be convict of the rape of a child . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 104 - Report on duty to make prohibit step order and power to repeal " ( 1 ) as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of the period of three year begin with the day on which section ( restrict parental responsibility when sentence for rape of a child ) come into force , the Secretary of State must — ( a ) prepare a report on the operation of section 10A and 10b of the Children Act 1989 ( duty on Crown Court to make prohibit step order ) during the period , and ( b ) publish the report and lie it before Parliament . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State may by regulation repeal either — ( a ) section 10a ( 1 ) ( b ) of the Children Act 1989 , or ( b ) section 10a and 10b of that Act . ( 3 ) but regulation under subsection ( 2 ) may only be make during the period of 6 month begin with the day on which the report under subsection ( 1 ) be lay before Parliament . ( 4 ) the consequential provision which may be make by regulation under subsection ( 2 ) by virtue of section 86 ( 1 ) ( a ) include provision amend or repeal any provision make by an Act of Parliament or an Act or measure of Senedd Cymru . " — ( Laura Farris . ) this new clause require the Secretary of State to prepare a report on the operation of section 10A and 10b of the Children Act 1989 and confer the power to repeal those section or their application to case involve rape of a child ( whether because of the report or otherwise ) . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 44 - sexual exploitation of an adult ( 1 ) the Sexual Offences Act 2003 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) section 52 be amend as follow — ( a ) in the title for " cause or incite prostitution " substitute " sexual exploitation " , and ( b ) in paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) for " cause or incite another person to become a prostitute " substitute " sexually exploit another person " . ( 3 ) section 53 be amend as follow — ( a ) in the title for " prostitution " substitute " sexual exploitation " , and ( b ) in paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) for " prostitution " substitute " sexual exploitation " . ( 4 ) section 54 be amend as follow — ( a ) in subsection ( 2 ) for " section 51a , 52 , 53 and 53a " substitute " section 53a " , and ( b ) at end insert — " ( 4 ) in section 52 and 53 " sexual exploitation " mean conduct by which a person manipulate , deceive , coerce or control another person to undertake sexual activity . " . " — ( Jess Phillips . ) an amendment to the Sexual Offences Act 2003 , specifically in section 52 and 53 , replace " prostitution for gain ' " with " sexual exploitation of an adult " . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Sarah Green Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Alex Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Stephen Timms Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Chris Webb Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies mim davy Philip Davies Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon fall Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Mark Spencer Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Desmond Swayne Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mike Wood Amanda Solloway the House divide : Ayes 167 , Noes 275 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 57 - offence of cause death or serious injury by dangerous , careless or inconsiderate cycling " ( 1 ) the Road Traffic Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 2 ) before section 28 ( dangerous cycling ) insert — ' 27a cause death by dangerous cycling a person who cause the death of another person by ride a cycle dangerously ( as define in section 28 ) on a road or other public place be guilty of an offence . 27b cause serious injury by dangerous cycling ( 1 ) a person who cause serious injury to another person by ride a cycle dangerously ( as define in section 28 ) on a road or other public place be guilty of an offence . ( 2 ) in this section " serious injury mean — ( a ) in England and Wales , physical harm which amount to grievous bodily harm for the purpose of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 , and ( b ) in Scotland , severe physical injury . 27C cause death by careless or inconsiderate cycling a person who cause the death of another person by ride a cycle on a road or other public place without due care and attention , or without reasonable consideration for other person use the road or place , be guilty of an offence . " ( 3 ) in section 28 ( dangerous cycling ) , after subsection ( 3 ) insert — " ( 4 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 2 ) , what would be expect of a competent and careful cyclist include that their cycle be equip and maintain in accordance with regulation make under section 81 of this Act . " ( 4 ) after section 32 ( electrically assist pedal cycle ) , insert — " 32a Interpretation of section 27a to 32 ( 1 ) for the purpose of section 27a to 32 of this Act , " a cycle " include but be not limit to — ( a ) a pedal cycle , ( b ) an electrically assist pedal cycle , and ( c ) a mechanically propel personal transporter , include — ( i ) an electric scooter , ( ii ) a self - balance personal transporter ( include a self - balance scooter , self - balance board or electric unicycle ) , and ( iii ) any other mechanically propel personal transporter provide for by the Secretary of State in regulation make under this section . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) , mechanically propel personal transporter be to be define in regulation make by the Secretary of State under this section . " ( 5 ) the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 be amend as follow . ( 6 ) in the table in Part 1 of Schedule 2 , after the row begin " RTA section 27 " insert in column 1 to 4 — " RTA Section 27a cause death by dangerous cycling . on indictment . 14 year . RTA Section 27b cause serious injury by dangerous cycling . ( a ) summarily . ( b ) on indictment . ( a ) 12 month or the statutory maximum or both . ( b ) 5 year of a fine or both . RTA Section 27c cause death by careless of inconsiderate cycling . ( a ) summarily . ( b ) on indictment . ( a ) 12 month ( in England and Wales ) or 6 month ( in Scotland ) or the statutory maximum or both . ( b ) 5 year or a fine or both . " " bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 59 - Ban on " ninja sword " " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must exercise their power under section 141 ( 2 ) of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 to amend the Schedule to the Criminal Justice Act 1988 ( Offensive Weapons ) Order 1988 as follow . ( 2 ) in paragraph 1 , after sub - paragraph ( t ) insert — " ( u ) the weapon sometimes know as a " ninja sword " , " katana " or " ninjato " , be a single - edged straight blade of up to 60 cm in length with a long hilt or guard " . ( 3 ) regulation lay under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) be lay within six month of the date of Royal Assent to this Act , ( b ) be lay follow consultation on the definition of possession for sporting use and possession of antique , and ( c ) include , subject to the result of the consultation under subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) , exemption for sporting use and for possession of antique . " — ( Alex Cunningham . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Lyn Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Colleen Fletcher Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris James Murray Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Lucy Powell Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Stephen Timms Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Chris Webb Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Munira Wilson Beth Winter Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Mary Glindon Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Claire Coutinho Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies mim davy Philip Davies Dehenna Davison Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon fall Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Mark Spencer Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Desmond Swayne Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mike Wood Amanda Solloway the House divide : Ayes 171 , Noes 272 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 91 - offence of fail to meet pollution performance commitment level " ( 1 ) a water or water and sewerage company ( " C " ) commit an offence where C have — ( a ) fail to meet its pollution performance commitment level for three consecutive year ; or ( b ) experience an increase in — ( i ) total pollution incident per 10 , 000km2 , or ( ii ) serious pollution incident for three consecutive year . ( 2 ) for the purpose of this section — " water or water and sewerage company " mean company which be responsible for the provision of water , or water and sewerage , service and which be regulate by Ofwat and the Environment Agency ; " pollution performance commitment level " mean the level of performance on pollution that the company have commit to deliver , and which be report against by Ofwat in its annual water company performance report ; " total pollution incident per 10 , 000km2 " and " serious pollution incident " mean the relevant figure under those heading report by the Environment Agency in its annual environmental performance report . ( 3 ) if guilty of an offence under this section , C be liable — ( a ) on summary conviction , to a fine ; ( b ) on conviction on indictment , to a fine . " — ( Tim Farron . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Alistair Carmichael Daisy Cooper Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Stephen Farry Wera Hobhouse Ben Lake Caroline Lucas Layla Moran Helen Morgan Sarah Olney Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Julian Smith Munira Wilson Christine Jardine Sarah Green Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Stuart Anderson Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Conor Burns Rob Butler Lisa Cameron James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Virginia Crosbie James Daly David Davies mim davy Philip Davies Dehenna Davison Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon fall Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Scott Mann Theresa May Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Esther McVey Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Andrew Rosindell Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Mark Spencer Andrew Stephenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Desmond Swayne Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mike Wood Amanda Solloway the House divide : Ayes 17 , Noes 268 . question accordingly negative . new Schedule 4 - cuckooing : specify offence " 1 an offence under section 33 or 33a of the Sexual Offences Act 1956 ( keep a brothel ) . 2 an offence under section 1 of the Restriction of Offensive Weapons Act 1959 ( offence relate to flick knife and gravity knife ) . 3 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Firearms Act 1968 — ( a ) section 1 ( 1 ) ( possession etc of firearm or ammunition without certificate ) ; ( b ) section 2 ( 1 ) ( possession etc of shotgun without licence ) ; ( c ) section 3 ( 1 ) ( deal etc in firearm or ammunition without be register ) ; ( d ) section 5 ( 1 ) , ( 1A ) or ( 2A ) ( possession , manufacture etc of prohibit weapon ) . 4 an offence under section 1 of the Theft Act 1968 ( theft ) . 5 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 — ( a ) section 4 ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) ( production and supply of control drug ) ; ( b ) section 5 ( 2 ) or ( 3 ) ( possession of control drug , include with intent to supply to another ) ; ( c ) section 6 ( 2 ) ( cultivation of cannabis plant ) . 6 an offence under section 1 of the Protection of Children Act 1978 ( indecent photograph of child ) . 7 an offence under either of the follow provision of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 — ( a ) section 141 ( offensive weapon ) ; ( b ) section 160 ( possession of indecent image of child ) . 8 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 — ( a ) any of section 1 to 15a ( rape , sexual assault , child sex offence etc ) ; ( b ) any of section 30 to 37 ( offence against person with mental disorder ) ; ( c ) any of section 47 to 50 ( sexual exploitation of child ) ; ( d ) any of section 52 to 53a ( offence relate to prostitution ) ; ( e ) section 61 ( administer a substance with intent ) ; ( f ) any of section 66 to 70 ( exposure etc , offence relate to intimate image etc , voyeurism , intercourse with an animal , sexual penetration of a corpse ) . 9 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Fraud Act 2006 — ( a ) section 1 ( fraud ) ; ( b ) section 6 ( possession etc of article for use in fraud ) ; ( c ) section 7 ( make or supply article for use in fraud ) . 10 an offence under section 63 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 ( possession of extreme pornographic image ) . 11 an offence under section 62 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 ( possession of prohibit image of child ) . 12 an offence under either of the follow provision of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 — ( a ) section 1 ( slavery , servitude or forced or compulsory labour ) ; ( b ) section 2 ( human trafficking ) . 13 an offence under either of the follow provision of the Serious Crime Act 2015 — ( a ) section 45 ( participate in activity of organise crime group ) ; ( b ) section 69 ( possession of paedophile manual ) . 14 an offence under any of the follow provision of the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016 — ( a ) section 4 ( produce psychoactive substance ) ; ( b ) section 5 ( supply etc psychoactive substance ) ; ( c ) section 7 ( possession of psychoactive substance with intent to supply ) . 15 an offence under section 1 of this Act ( possession etc of article for use in serious crime ) . 16 an inchoate offence ( within the meaning of section 398 ( 3 ) of the Sentencing Code ) in relation to an offence mention in a precede paragraph . " — ( Laura Farris . ) see the statement for new clause NC94 . bring up , read the first and second time , and add to the Bill . clause 13 - administer etc harmful substance ( include by spike ) amendment make : 142 , page 10 , line 37 , after " conviction " insert " in England and Wales " . this amendment and amendment 143 to 147 extend the clause to Northern Ireland and make change to the clause to cater for this extension . amendment 143 , page 10 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( aa ) on summary conviction in Northern Ireland , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 6 month or a fine not exceed the statutory maximum ( or both ) ; " see the statement for amendment 142 . amendment 144 , page 11 , line 14 , after " conviction " insert " in England and Wales " . see the statement for amendment 142 . amendment 145 , page 11 , line 16 , at end insert — " ( aa ) on summary conviction in Northern Ireland , to imprisonment for a term not exceed 6 month or a fine not exceed the statutory maximum ( or both ) ; " see the statement for amendment 142 . amendment 146 , page 11 , line 32 , leave out " paragraph 11 " and insert " paragraph 11 and 124 " . see the statement for amendment 142 . amendment 147 , page 11 , line 35 , at end insert — " ( ea ) in the Criminal Justice ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2008 ( S . I . 2008 / 1216 ( N . I . 1 ) ) , paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 and paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 ; " . — ( Laura Farris . ) see the statement for amendment 142 . clause 28 - power to compel attendance at sentencing hear Amendments make : 148 , page 33 , line 30 , leave out " an offence in respect of which a life sentence must , or may , be pass , " and insert " a serious offence , " . this amendment and amendment 149 and 150 low the threshold for the availability of the new power to order an offender to attend a sentencing hearing so that it apply in relation to offence that be punishable with imprisonment for 14 year or more . amendment 149 , page 34 , leave out line 11 . see the statement for amendment 148 . amendment 150 , page 34 , line 18 , at end insert — " " serious offence " mean an offence which , in the case of a person age 21 or over , be punishable with — ( a ) imprisonment for 14 year or more , or ( b ) a life sentence ( within the meaning of section 324 ) . " — ( Laura Farris . ) see the statement for amendment 148 . clause 29 - powers to compel attendance at sentencing hearing : armed force Amendments make : 151 , page 35 , line 17 , leave out " a service offence in respect of which a life sentence must , or may , be pass , " and insert " a serious service offence , " . this amendment and amendment 152 make equivalent provision to 148 to 150 in relation to the equivalent new power for armed force sentence hearing . amendment 152 , page 35 , line 40 , at end insert — " " serious service offence " mean a service offence which , in the case of a person age 21 or over , be punishable with — ( a ) imprisonment for 14 year or more , or ( b ) a life sentence . " — ( Laura Farris . ) see the statement for amendment 151 . clause 30 - child sex offence : groom aggravating factor Amendment make : 153 , page 38 , line 17 , after " be to be read as " insert " include " . — ( Laura Farris . ) this amendment clarify that , by virtue of section 238 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 ( as amend ) , the reference in section 70a ( 1 ) of the Sentencing Code to a specified child sex offence be to be read as include a reference to an offence under section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 as respect which the correspond offence under the law of England and Wales be a specified child sex offence . Bill to be far consider tomorrow . Deferred Divisions Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 41a ( 3 ) ) , that , at this day ' s sit , Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motion in the name of Secretary Alex Chalk relate to legal aid and advice . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , legal aid and advice that the draft legal aid , sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 ( legal aid : Domestic Abuse ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 25 March , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . with the leave of the House , I will put motion 5 to 12 together . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Representation of the People that the draft Representation of the People ( England and Wales and Northern Ireland ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 April , be approve . countryside that the draft Management of Hedgerows ( England ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 16 April , be approve . defence that the draft Armed Forces ( Court Martial ) ( amendment ) Rules 2024 , which be lay before this House on 18 April , be approve . energy that the draft Carbon Capture Revenue Support ( Directions , Eligibility and Counterparty ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 April , be approve . that the draft Carbon Dioxide Transport and Storage Revenue Support ( Directions and Counterparty ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 April , be approve . Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) that the draft Product Safety and Metrology etc . ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 April , be approve . International Monetary Fund that the draft International Monetary Fund ( Increase in Subscription ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 April , be approve . Financial Services and Markets that the draft Securitisation ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 22 April , be approve . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) question agree to . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I rise to present a petition on the recommendation of the infected blood inquiry on behalf of the resident of my constituency of Edinburgh West . I have a long - stand interest in this as a friend of my family , who be one of the early victim of the infected blood scandal , have suffer as a consequence , along with many family include those in my constituency , wait too long for redress . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Edinburgh West , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait for too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002985 ] I rise to present a petition from resident of my constituency of Edinburgh North and Leith regard those people who have receive infected blood and suffer as a consequence and who have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . " the petition of resident of the constituency of Edinburgh North and Leith . [ p002987 ] I rise to present this petition on behalf of constituent in Aberavon , on the same term as those present by my hon . friend the Members for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) and for Batley and Spen ( Kim Leadbeater ) . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) for her unstinting work in pursue justice for the victim . my constituent David Farrugia and his sibling lose their father in 1986 after he be give infected blood product . it literally tear their family apart , as the sibling be then split up in the care system . this scandal have cause decade of suffering , health issue , financial loss and stigma for those affect . they have campaign for justice , but it have take far too long and be long overdue . justice must not be delay any far . the petition of resident of the constituency of Aberavon . [ P002986 ] I join a number of hon . member in present a petition in the same term on behalf of my constituent in Bradford South , although I know that it reflect feeling that be widespread across the country . the petition reflect concern across Bradford South that the Government have yet to implement both the final infected blood inquiry recommendation and compensation , and the will of this House of Commons , which be express on 4 December 2023 . the petition of resident of the constituency of Bradford South . [ P002988 ] like many other , I rise to present a petition on behalf of my constituent of York Outer who have , alongside their family , suffer directly from wrongly receive infected blood and have wait far too long for redress . I pay tribute to my constituent , include Norman , who have sign the petition , and I call on the Government to fully implement the recommendation set out in the infected blood inquiry report , which be due to be publish next week . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . " the petition of resident of the constituency of York Outer . [ p002989 ] Leaseholders and Freeholders Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Suzanne Webb . ) I begin by thank my constituent in Portishead , whose dogged determination not to be treat as supine cash cow have lead to this debate , which I be proud to have secure on their behalf . the resident at Port Marine , a beautiful development in Portishead that transform derelict industrial land into an extremely desirable place to live , buy their property — some leasehold and some freehold — with an external property management company manage some communal part . my hon . friend the Minister will recognise in that tale a situation mirror up and down the country , with uncertainty about bill and charge at one end of the spectrum and the inability to sell property that be effectively value at nothing at the other . there be two key issue : the variable service charge and the fixed rent charge . I be grateful to sebastian o ' Kelly of the Leasehold Knowledge Partnership , who describe the situation thus : " it be an arrangement cook up by developer and council : it mean developer have a management company and income stream that they can sell on to management company such as FirstPort , and the council save money by not adopt these open space . meanwhile , the often young buyer of these property end up pay council tax and the management charge , while old local often live in more valuable house pay to the council only . " the situation be increasingly be describe as what it be — namely , a fleecehold . resident initially write to I about the increase in the variable service charge to level that they believe be unreasonable . attempt to gain transparency on the cost go back several year , include a face - to - face meeting between FirstPort and Portishead resident in 2019 . the issue affect around 1 , 000 of my constituent , both freeholder and leaseholder . in effect , resident have complain that the amount they be pay do not match the amount of land be manage by FirstPort or the level of work it undertake on the Port Marine estate . it have also be difficult to get transparency from FirstPort when resident have request a breakdown of its cost for manage their property and land . on 3 November 2023 I join constituent represent the Portishead management charge action group , along with two representative of North Somerset Council and two representative of FirstPort , for a walk around the Port Marine estate to look at the area manage by FirstPort and by North Somerset Council respectively . we find that very small area of the estate be manage by FirstPort , for which it charge at least £ 440 per annum . that charge seem particularly high and produce around £ 220 , 000 of income per year for FirstPort . ideally , resident would like to see the land manage by North Somerset Council , which look after large part of the estate already . naturally , the council would like to receive a substantial sum from FirstPort to transfer those duty but , with no agreement forthcoming , it be easy to see why my constituent find themselves in something of a trap . I commend the right hon . gentleman for rightly bring this issue to the attention of the House . do he agree that , although the Leasehold Advisory Service give free advice for England and Wales — as it should — the advice be not grant in all situation , so when his constituent seek advice , in many case they would be unsure about where they stand without costly legal advice , and that the Government and the Minister must provide much more clarity across the board ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman . I will go on to set out just how horrendous some of those charge be and how it can be very difficult for my constituent to get legal redress . that be no doubt a situation that my hon . friend the Minister have hear on a number of occasion . we all understand that communal land must be manage for the benefit of all . no one dispute that , but it need to be do in a way that be fair and equitable , predictable and transparent . the current position be none of those thing . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that many of these arrangement be never make clear to people when they purchase their property , and too often developer have take a shortcut to create a secondary income stream , when actually they should be pay a lump sum to the local authority to take over those responsibility . it be a double whammy for those who be on the end of it , be it not ? I swear there be no collusion here , Madam Deputy Speaker , but the hon . Gentleman take I very neatly on to an even more horrendous example than the one I have already set out : fix rent charge . first , let I set out to the House the history by which property company can fleece freeholder use this mechanism . across the country as a whole rent charge be rare , but they do exist in part of England , such as around Bath , Bristol and Manchester . a real problem can arise when a buyer or their conveyancing solicitor fail to spot their presence in the title deed . why ? because rent charge , which be introduce mainly in the late 19th and early 20th century , be put in place when landowner want to sell land at a reduce cost to a developer . they would sell the land on a freehold basis , but retain a legal interest in the land and charge an annual fee , or rent charge , which be in place for ever . historically , the rent charge be typically between £ 2 and £ 10 , which be quite a lot in those day , but have be regard as nominal in recent year . while many rent charge have fall dormant , other have be buy up by property company , which be now ruthlessly enforce payment . the rent owner be entitle to recover any sum due , but do not have to send a reminder to the freeholder and , as I understand it , be legally entitle to impose a penalty after 40 day — when the account inevitably fall into arrear — usually by take out a statutory lease on the home as security . that would then make the property almost impossible to sell unless the freeholder pay thousand to redeem the lease . that be outrageous . let I outline the issue in respect of Portishead . in 2011 , solicitor act on behalf of Crest Nicholson , the original landowner of the development , write to FirstPort — then know as Consort — advise it that the fixed rent charge should be reduce to £ 1 . although FirstPort share that information with some resident and reduce the charge accordingly , it do not do that for all resident and continue to invoice some to the tune of between £ 100 and £ 150 per annum . those resident be later refunded . after try to renege on that agreement at the end of 2022 , FirstPort inform resident in December 2023 that it again intend to start charge £ 100 to £ 150 per year for the fixed rent charge . FirstPort have argue that , because no deed of variation be enter into to confirm the reduction , mean that the agreement to reduce the fixed rent charge be not legally binding , it can effectively do what it like . needless to say , resident who be not advise in 2011 that they need to enter into a deed of variation , or log the change with the Land Registry , be extremely unhappy . recently , under pressure from resident , Crest Nicholson and myself , FirstPort agree to keep the fixed rent charge to £ 1 per annum , provide that resident enter into a deed of variation . it be instructive to see what Crest Nicholson have make of this debacle . on 9 February , it tell I : " Crest ' s view be that the decision be take by FirstPort to unilaterally reimpose the fixed rent charge of the property at Port Marine be not only unfair but the underlying mechanism within the transfer be potentially open to challenge in the court . this be because the annual charge they be propose to claim ( I . e . between £ 100 and £ 150 ) be not what a court would consider to be nominal amount , a requirement for a fix rent charge to be lawful under the Rentcharges Act 1977 . " interestingly , Crest also tell I : " many of the resident wrongly believe this money be be pay in exchange for FirstPort perform a service . FirstPort be already able to recover its cost for enforce covenant from the variable element of the rent charge so FirstPort ' s claim that this be its purpose be , at good questionable . " follow a meeting that we have at the end of March , Crest Nicholson make it clear that it be no long hand out contract to FirstPort . let I turn to the question of the deed of variation . FirstPort initially quote resident £ 300 plus vat to enter into the deed of variation , offer that price as a discount rate . in its letter to I on 7 March 2024 , it state that its " legal fee for enter into any type of Deed of Variation would usually be £ 500 + vat . " in other word , this be a bargain that my constituent should jump at in order not be force to pay £ 150 a year . they could pay FirstPort £ 500 as a one - off payment to prevent that from happen in the future . I think many of we would regard that as extortion . this whole saga have cause constituent a great deal of stress . despite that , they have indicate that the £ 150 cost be tolerable — mean they be willing , but not happy , to enter into the deed of variation and be do with the whole saga . FirstPort have set a deadline of 30 June 2024 for resident to enter into the deed of variation . so , we have a variable service charge that can be raise and enforce without any clear and transparent link with the service be undertake . then , we have the truly horrendous situation in which rent charge , which have no relation whatsoever to any service be provide , can effectively be raise and apply through the threat of make property unsellable , and the only mean of escape be for resident to enter into deed of variation at a price determine by — guess who — FirstPort . let I be clear : I regard this as daylight robbery and a historical anomaly that have no place in our modern society . I be sure that FirstPort will not be the only property company up and down our country act in this way . as the Minister ' s Department introduce regulation follow the passage of the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 , and as it look at leasehold reform , I ask my hon . friend to see how quickly we can redress these wholly unacceptable position and consign they to the dustbin of history , which be where they belong . it be a great pleasure to respond in this short debate , and to talk about an issue of huge importance to so many colleague around the House . over the past few month , as we have talk about leasehold , more and more colleague have come up to I to highlight the iniquity , problem and challenge that they see in their constituency . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) for highlight the issue that he have experience , and I be very sorry to hear about Port Marine and the challenge that its resident face . I obviously can not comment too much on individual case , but it be absolutely vital that we hear individual example . I have hear example from around the country of particularly egregious extortion , and problem with the framework of leasehold . that be one of the reason why we be bring forward leasehold reform — because we recognise that there need to be change . Leasehold can work in some place , and some element of it can be successful , but as my right hon . friend have outline , the problem be that there be too much bad practice in the sector . there be too many distortion within that tenure , too many inefficiency that can be exploit , and frankly too many rent - seeker in the sector who be try to exploit those distortion and inefficiency . I know that opposition colleague also feel strongly about this issue , but we Conservatives be nothing if we do not seek to smash monopoly , stop rent - seeking , make market more perfect and stand up for the little guy . story such as the one that my right hon . friend recount today highlight the reason why we be reform leasehold . there be a way to go in make that market more perfect , but that be exactly what we be try to do . the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill will bring into law many reform to well protect and empower leaseholder . exist leaseholder will find it easy and cheap to extend their lease or buy their freehold . reform to the cost regime for enfranchisement and right - to - manage claim will make they more accessible , enable leaseholder to take control of their building and , therefore , their future . the issue of rent charge also apply to freeholder ; it be not just leaseholder who be the victim . an amendment to the Rentcharges Act 1977 would deal with the problem once and for all , so I encourage my hon . friend to look at amendment to that Act when we bring forward legislation on this subject . if the government do not want to bring forward such an amendment to the 1977 Act , I would be more than happy to table one . my right hon . friend be absolutely right : there be impact on both freeholder and leaseholder . different type of property and tenure be impact in different way . element of the rent charge regime will be extinguish by the 1977 Act , which he rightly reference , in 2033 ; that have be in law since before I be bear . [ Official Report , 20 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 7wc . ] ( Correction ) however , there be a number of other issue that need addressing , and the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill be introduce to address some of they . a whole range of reform be necessary across the leasehold sector , and the Bill seek to address that , but as my right hon . friend outline , there be two main issue that this discussion of Port Marine have highlight : the variable service charge , and the rent charge point , which he just speak about a little more . the Bill as it stand will absolutely make progress on variable service charge in a number of way . it will not fix what have happen in the past , but it absolutely seek to minimise the chance of it happen again . unjustified increase in variable service charge be not acceptable . any service charge must be transparent and communicate effectively , and there should be a clear route for challenge they if thing go wrong . the Bill ensure that all leaseholder will receive : key minimum financial and non - financial information regularly , include a standardised service charge demand form ; an annual report of charge ; the timely provision of service charge account ; and the right to obtain other relevant information . that be a significant step forward , as I know from discussion with both leaseholder and freeholder in my constituency , and from have speak with colleague from all around the House who have similar issue . we be also take measure on service charge to ensure that leaseholder be not subject to unjustified legal cost . for the first time , they can , when appropriate , claim their cost from landlord if they go through the tribunal process and win . there will be a significant change on variable service charge as and when the Bill pass through both Houses . on fix rent charge , the Bill introduce a framework to empower homeowner and to hold estate management company to account for the service they provide . there will need to be transparency of information . there will be a new legal requirement that estate management charge must be reasonable . for the first time , there will be an ability to challenge excessive cost through the tribunal , and to ensure that estate management company be hold to account . the measure will also cover admin fee , include deed of variation — my right hon . Friend highlight that point . as I say , there will for the first time be a right to apply to the tribunal for redress . if there be a strong view , and proof , that the manage agent in charge be do something inappropriate or be not fulfil their duty , people can apply to a tribunal to have a substitute manager appoint . that will for the first time provide an opportunity for resident to highlight problem , and remove people who consistently cause problem . as I say in Committee , we recognise in Committee and from previous debate in the House the strength of feeling among colleague ; that have be show again by my right hon . friend in this debate , and by the contribution of other hon . member . we be consider far whether we can look at this area in more detail . I hope that I can soon say more from the Government Front Bench about that , although I can not do so tonight . to conclude , my right hon . friend be absolutely right to raise the issue in this case and to highlight the key challenge that we see daily to do with when this system do not work . he raise how and when this system be not work for Port Marine . I hope there be restitution , and that a solution come as soon as possible . I recognise the individual example of when thing be not work , but the Government be take action , in a very conservative way , recognise that we have to deal with these monopoly , smash the rent - seeker and remove distortion to make market more perfect . we must ensure that there will not be another Port Marine in 10 , 15 or 20 year ' time . when the Bill go through , we will significantly improve this market and leasehold , and significantly change rent charge , so that people who want to buy their house and have the benefit of owner - occupation — we want to do all we can to empower people — gain real control over their future . we look forward to colleague support the Bill as it go through its final stage in the House in the come week . question put and agree to . House adjourn .