prayer the Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Order , 15 January , and Standing Order no . 3 ) . Deputy Speaker ' s Statement Order . I regret to inform the House that there be a technical fault in the audio system . there be not a technical fault here in the Chamber — there be one in my own voice , but that be something to be remedie in another way — but there be a technical fault which mean that our proceeding can not be broadcast . apparently it be inappropriate for we to proceed without our proceeding be broadcast , so with great reluctance I be require to suspend the House in the hope that this fault will very soon be rectify . I be go to suspend the House for only 10 minute , in the hope that the work can be do to enable we to be broadcast to those who be listen and pay attention . the House be therefore suspend for 10 minute . sitting suspend . on resume — in the hope that we be now broadcast , we will commence . if the audio feed be not work properly — please do not let anyone judge by my voice whether it be or not — people observe from around the Palace of Westminster be more than welcome to come to sit in the Gallery and member wish to observe proceeding from their office may come to observe from the Chamber . Oral Answers to Questions Energy Security and Net Zero the Secretary of State be ask — Consumer Energy Debt what recent discussion she have have with Ofgem on trend in the level of consumer energy debt . what recent discussion she have have with Ofgem on trend in the level of consumer energy debt . the Secretary of State be unwell and send her apology both to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to the House . minister in the Department regularly meet Ofgem to discuss a range of issue . the Secretary of State meet supplier , alongside Ofgem , in November to discuss consumer energy debt and the protection of vulnerable customer . I know that many family be struggle with their energy bill this winter , which be why we be provide cost of live support worth £ 104 billion between 2022 and 2025 . I be grateful for that answer . just a few day ago , the Office for National Statistics show that the number of household who have be unable to pay their energy bill have increase by nearly 40 % . do the Minister , on behalf of the Secretary of State , who I hope get well soon , accept that the UK Government ' s failure to listen to stakeholder such as Citizens Advice , which be call for the £ 400 energy bill discount to be reinstate , have lead to soar energy debt among those who can least afford it , such as my constituent ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question ; he be right to highlight the issue of debt and family who be struggle . this be why we be provide £ 104 billion — or , on average , £ 3 , 700 per household — between 2022 and 2025 , which be one of the most generous package in Europe . in the autumn statement , we increase the national living wage , which be worth £ 1 , 800 to a full - time worker , and increase benefit by 6 . 7 % — that be worth £ 470 . just last week , we also deliver a tax cut for 27 million people , which be worth £ 450 for the average worker . so we be take step , but we recognise the reality for many people that he set out . in my country , energy debt be rise , as scottish consumer pay a premium on their energy bill — it be a high price to pay to keep the light on in England . in the light of that imbalance , have the Minister discuss abolish the not - fit - for - purpose Ofgem ? if not , should his Government not give full responsibility for energy pricing in Scotland to the Scottish Parliament ? we have move decisively to support family in Scotland and across the rest of the UK . I be pleased that the price cap have fall by half since its peak last year , and we be make sure that our support be target at the most vulnerable . I have already lay out many of the measure we be take precisely to ensure that people in Scotland and elsewhere be support in what have be a tough time . overall , we be , of course , look to power up Britain . we have set out a plan to do that , precisely in order to have more of our power come from Britain and to remove our dependence on foreign fossil fuel . I hope that the hon . Gentleman and his party will support we in our effort to deliver that . I call the Scottish National party spokesman . the situation for bill payer this winter be even bad than it be last winter , which be why the SNP have call for the reinstatement of the £ 400 energy support scheme . however , the Government have stubbornly refuse to sufficiently stand by householder , who be freeze all over these island , despite report of increase hospitalisation and the doubling of burn from hot water bottle in Scotland . how will the Tories extend just a fraction of the interest they have show in exploit Scotland ' s natural energy resource to the people of Scotland , who be freeze yet again this winter ? as I set out in response to the hon . Gentleman ' s colleague , we have act decisively , offer among the most generous support of any nation in Europe . we can be proud of the effort we have make and I be pleased to see that the energy price cap be down so significantly . nuclear Energy Sector what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support the growth of the nuclear energy sector . what step she be take to increase nuclear energy capacity . what step she be take to increase nuclear energy capacity . last week , I announce the big expansion of nuclear power for 70 year . we will deploy a fleet of small modular reactor and build up to 24 GW of nuclear by 2050 . this will ensure we have reliable , cheap and low - carbon power to protect consumer from price volatility and hostile foreign regime , bolster our energy security . a new civil nuclear road map be a welcome step in grow our nuclear sector , potentially create job across the United Kingdom , from the north of Scotland to the south - west peninsula , and include site like Wylfa . what assessment have he make of the economic impact of the potential growth of the nuclear sector for the south - west region , particularly give the nuclear expertise at site such as Devonport and Hinkley Point ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that the nuclear sector support job across the United Kingdom , and it would be very welcome if government across this United Kingdom be to come together and champion that industry as it grow over the next few decade . the nuclear sector be vital to the economy of south - west England , as my hon . friend know , provide up to 11 , 000 job in construction alone at Hinkley Point C , and will go on generate highly skilled job for generation as we continue to build up this important part of our energy security . I thank my hon . friend for his answer and the announcement of the nuclear road map . small modular nuclear reactor can bring energy to our town and city across the country very quickly . they be under development right now , so when can we see the first one instal and provide power to the grid ? my hon . friend will be pleased to know we be bring forward small modular reactor and that the next phase of the live SMR competition will launch within week . our aim be for the competition to be the fast of its kind in the world , to help facilitate final investment decision for the project be take in the next Parliament and operational project be here in the UK by the 2030 . the launch will mark a significant step forward for eligible company and for the UK ' s broad nuclear ambition . we have give away over the decade the massive advantage this country have with the Calder Hall development in 1956 , so will my hon . friend reassure I that we will regain that ground by push for more rapid development of a sensible nature , as the Finns have with their hole in the ground for store nuclear waste ? will he inform the House with which nuclear vendor the Department be engage ? my hon . friend be right to refer to the proud history we have in this country when it come to civil nuclear — the development at Calder Hall lead the world — and the deep geological disposal that be happen in Finland right now . the plan in our nuclear road map will quadruple nuclear capacity by 2050 . we be make rapid progress on Sizewell C and the SMR competition . we continue to work closely with country such as Finland , with which I engage with regularly . it have build and operate large - scale geological disposal facility , and sign up to the COP pledge to triple nuclear capacity . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to smr , which be the way forward for the future of nuclear . Sheffield Forgemasters be ideally place to produce the essential part for those reactor and have a memorandum of understanding with both Rolls - Royce and Hitachi . will the Minister meet the Mayor of South Yorkshire , Sheffield Forgemasters and other in the consortium ? the consortium now have access to significant development capital , so we can build the smr in South Yorkshire and create the thousand of well - pay job we want , as well as green energy . I would be delighted to meet the Mayor of South Yorkshire . through the nuclear road map , we be commit not only to ensure our energy security and achieve a further drive towards our net zero objective , but to build up the supply chain and create those high - wage , high - skilled job at all level across the United Kingdom . of course I would be delighted to meet the Mayor of South Yorkshire and , indeed , anybody else who represent an area that want to invest in this future and this great exciting moment for nuclear capacity . I , too , be in favour of new nuclear ; it be an important part of a balanced green energy mix . do the Minister share my concern that much of the investment in new nuclear in the UK be come from overseas company , and even the government of overseas country , especially give that the emphasis be not just on reduce carbon emission , but on energy security ? would he perhaps consider other form of renewable energy , such as tidal power , for which the entire supply chain be british and which would be great for our economy as well as for tackle climate change ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I hold a contrary position . I be proud of the fact that this country be open to inward investment and , indeed , attract attention from some of the big company in the world to invest in our future energy security and net zero objective . of course , in unveil all these exciting announcement , as we do last week , at the heart of what we be seek to achieve be to create those high - wage , high - skill job as we move forward across the United Kingdom , build up that supply chain , and tidal will be an important part of the mix as well . I thank the Minister for that most progressive answer . the progress make in nuclear safety and the need for clean energy clearly indicate that the Government must invest in the security of this sector . that would lower energy cost and help we to meet our green target , which we all want to meet and should meet . will the Minister outline what progress have be make to secure this investment ? as the hon . Gentleman know , just last week we unveil our civil nuclear road map . I commit to meet he and , indeed , anybody else from Northern Ireland to seek to build up the manufacturing and supply chain workforce in Northern Ireland , so that all part of our United Kingdom can benefit from the once - in - a - generation investment that we be make right now . Onshore Wind Farm Cables what recent assessment the Government have make of the environmental impact of onshore wind farm cable . the environmental impact of onshore windfarm cable be assess through the consenting process . minimise potential environmental impact of new infrastructure be a Government priority . we be committed to ensure that new electricity network project mitigate environmental impact at every opportunity . although I be a huge supporter of offshore wind , there be no doubt that the trenching through my beautiful countryside be not without its own set of problem . flooding , agricultural run - off and pollution have all be hugely exacerbate since the summer with what have happen in North Norfolk . what measure do we really have to force wind company to clean up and repair the countryside after the damage they cause when they trench through it ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for persistently raise these issue to make sure that we get the transmission infrastructure that we need , but in a way that have the minimum negative impact on his constituent and other . I will follow up his question today by look specifically at the regime , make sure that the company concern not only go through all the correct permissioning ahead of time , but be properly follow up to ensure that they deliver it in a way that do not leave the problem that he have itemise . I call the shadow Minister . on 28 November , I ask the Minister how many planning application for onshore wind have be lodge in England since the allege loosening of planning restriction on onshore wind in September . the answer then be zero . even now that the policy have have more time to bed down , the answer , I be afraid , be still zero , and I predict that it will be zero the next time we meet . in September last year , the Secretary of State say that the change make in September " will help speed up the delivery of onshore wind project " . do the Minister think that the Government have succeed ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . as he will be aware , in the last contract for difference round , a great deal of onshore wind be successfully bring forward and it still constitute the large single form of renewable energy in the United Kingdom — the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) will correct I if I have get that wrong . I share with the hon . Gentleman a frustration in make sure that we see that pull forward , so that we see more project in England as well as in the rest of the UK . I be glad the Minister be frustrate about the complete failure of this allege policy turnaround , but I be frustrate because if we have not have the absurd ban in the first place , the onshore wind development that would have take place would have save each family £ 180 on their energy bill . all Labour be suggest be that onshore wind be treat like any other development . how long will it be before the Minister accept the reality and conclude that he need to go back and properly repeal the ban ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and his personal commitment to this area , but he know as well as anyone the parlous performance of the previous Government , which his right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) be a lead figure in . Less than 7 % of our electricity come from renewable as recently as 2010 . it be this Government that have lead the world after a flatlining in carbon emission from our electricity sector under Labour . we have see renewable grow and , by October , we will see coal entirely remove from our mix . I call the SNP spokesman . new renewable energy generation demand new transmission infrastructure . this Government have be asleep at the wheel for 14 year , show zero pace , ambition or grip in deliver that energy infrastructure , and that be why bill be so high . nevertheless , we be where we be . will the Minister confirm to the House for the record what National Grid have say : that UK Government policy be that when construct new transmission infrastructure , overhead line be the starting position ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . of course , we have be move at pace . we have have the Winser review and the connection plan . in the autumn statement and , indeed , the Prime Minister ' s speech in September , there be so much to drive forward and change the transmission infrastructure , include halve the 14 - year timeline to seven year . we be work flat out . it should be note that the reason overhead line be prefer be the cost of undergrounding . not only be it vastly disruptive , as my hon . friend the Member for North Norfolk ( Duncan Baker ) say ; either undergrounding or offshore be five to ten time more expensive than have overhead infrastructure , and sometimes even more than that . that be why it be the starting presumption . we want to power Britain from Britain and in a low - cost manner , so that when we get to the 2030 and we have decarbonise our electricity system , we have a low - cost electricity system , while ensure that we install the infrastructure in a way that be friendly and supportive to community . Energy Social Tariffs what recent assessment she have make of the potential merit of energy social tariff . the Government remain focused on provide help where people need it most . we be already provide a package of support total over £ 104 billion , or £ 3 , 700 per household on average , from 2022 to 2025 . last year , the Government promise action to help the most vulnerable with their energy bill . in April 2023 , the Secretary of State ' s predecessor , the right hon . member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Grant Shapps ) , say that " a social tariff could be very helpful " . — [ Official Report , 18 April 2023 ; Vol . 731 , c . 111 . ] nearly a year on , we have hear absolutely nothing about a social tariff . will the Minister explain to the House why the Government have abandon plan for a social tariff ? as the hon . Member will know , we be continue our support for vulnerable household , and it be important that we help household as well we can . as an example , we have the £ 900 cost of living payment and the warm home discount payment . obviously , we will constantly monitor where we be and will ensure that we continue to support all those vulnerable household . there be indeed a need for a social tariff , whether it be a cost of live crisis or a lack - of - wage crisis , give that the Resolution Foundation report at the beginning of December that average wage across the UK be £ 10 , 700 low than they should be compare with other comparable country , follow the past 15 year . there probably be a lack - of - wage crisis hit the UK . regardless , the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee say in our " prepare for the winter " report , in paragraph 24 : " we urge the Government and energy supplier to consider implement a form of social tariff and other measure to protect vulnerable household from be cut off from their energy supply . " that be a unanimous report across Labour Members , Tory Members and , of course , the pro - scottish independence voice on the Committee , but will we see some movement on this from the Government ? it be important and need by everybody , and it would be particularly welcome to my constituent in Na h - Eileanan an Iar . as I have indicate , we be do a lot of thing to help people , include the most vulnerable in society . it be worth point out that it be announce recently in the autumn statement that the national living wage will be worth £ 1 , 800 for a full - time worker and that benefit will increase by 6 . 7 % , which be worth £ 470 a year . Fuel Poverty what estimate she have make of the number of household in fuel poverty in winter 2023 - 24 . what estimate she have make of the number of household in fuel poverty in winter 2023 - 24 . what estimate she have make of the number of household in fuel poverty in winter 2023 - 24 . fuel poverty be devolve . statistic for England be publish annually by the Department . the next english statistic will be publish on 15 February and will include estimate of the number of household in fuel poverty in 2023 and 2024 . just under a third of people in my Jarrow constituency be now live in fuel poverty , like Maureen , who tell I she be struggle to find an extra £ 975 per month due to the disability price tag . that will be make bad by the recent news of the energy price cap rise . can the Minister explain why the Government still insist on give subsidy worth billion to the oil and gas industry through loophole in the windfall tax ? would that money not be well spend cut people ' s bill ? I must point out the work the Government have be do to help vulnerable people . not only that , but we have halve energy bill . I have constant meeting with all stakeholder , include Citizens Advice and all the disability group , and we be ensure that we be support all vulnerable people in the cost of live crisis and as we go through this winter . I also have increase number of constituent with significant level of energy debt come to my office seek fuel voucher . why be the Government pursue the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill , which the Minister herself have say will not bring down bill , when economic forecaster warn that delay in decarbonising will leave consumer with high price ? be it not time the Government drop the focus on fossil fuel and deliver instead the public investment in renewable energy that will bring down bill and go some way to avert the climate catastrophe ? we be commit not only to help vulnerable people , but to make sure we be provide the good energy security we can . that be why we be committed to all the policy we have introduce . I listen very carefully to the answer the Minister give to my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) , but I be still none the wiser , so I will ask again : can the Minister set out what recent discussion she have have with the Welsh Government about the social tariff , which the previous Secretary of State describe as " very helpful " ? just to reiterate , I have be have conversation with all stakeholder , and when I say stakeholder , that do not just mean Citizens Advice or Disability Rights UK , but across Government and with different devolve Departments . I be sure the Minister will agree that energy security and support the most vulnerable in fuel poverty go hand in hand . the way to address security be by both secure supply and cut waste . can she set out what the Government and her Department be do to reduce the waste of energy from people ' s home ? I want to acknowledge how hard my hon . friend work for his constituent . of course those be the thing we be most mindful of : make sure we get energy efficiency not only in production , but in the way we use that energy . Net Zero target : business what recent discussion she have have with business on the Government ' s net zero target . what recent discussion she have have with business on the Government ' s net zero target . I meet regularly with business leader and chair several group bring together government and industry so that we can drive progress towards net zero . that include the Net Zero Council , which be meet next week and include member from right across the economy . like I , they be delighted that the UK be lead the world in tackle climate change . we be the first major economy to halve its emission , ahead of every other major economy , and we have one of the most ambitious decarbonisation target in the world . contrary to what the Minister have just say , and to what he say about onshore wind , this country have fall on his party ' s watch to seventh in the world for attract investment in renewable . well - pay job , low bill and economic growth will all follow , but only if we attract investment , so why be the Government enable what EY have describe as the " diminishing of green policy " and undermine the economic benefit of net zero ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , which have a sort of comic element give Labour ' s monumental failure to deliver renewable when it be in power , couple with the fact that it want to bring forward GB Energy . that , as his left - wing colleague , the hon . member for Cynon Valley ( Beth Winter ) just say , would be public investment . it would drive out private investment and destroy the transformation of the UK energy system that have happen under the Conservatives — it have flatline under Labour . we have lead the world and have now decarbonise more than any other major economy on the planet . under the policy of this Conservative Government , which major world economy be predict to decarbonise fast by 2030 ? this one . if I may puncture the Minister ' s rant , I would like to ask he what certainty his Government will give business . we need a £ 23 billion combined investment from the public and private sector , but because target have be miss , that figure will need to double or treble every year between now and 2050 , accord to a Public Accounts Committee report . the Government ' s chop and change in deliver what they need to do be a big problem in business have the confidence to invest . that have happen on his watch , so what be he do to improve the situation ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and for her work on the Committee in hold the Government to account . of course , we have realise £ 198 billion of investment into clean energy since 2010 , and we have a plan , which we set out in " power up Britain " . the Labour party have only an intention to borrow £ 28 billion a year , put up family ' taxis , put up bill and destroy the most investable market in Europe that we have have to date . we will have another £ 100 billion of private investment by 2030 , and the Conservatives will carry on our work lead the world in transform our energy system so that we have low - cost , home - produce energy while also deliver on net zero — thing that signally do not happen under Labour . UK start - up Newcleo and french start - up NAAREA — nuclear Abundant Affordable Resourceful Energy for all — have just announce a partnership to promote small modular nuclear reactor . what support be the UK Government provide , and what proportion of our energy mix do the Minister think this kind of initiative can support ? my right hon . friend be right , and it be great to see excitement across the Chamber about develop nuclear . it be just a shame that , when it come to the secondary legislation to enable the business model , Labour Members do not support it — they say one thing in one place and a different thing when it come to make the law of the land . I be pleased to say to he that , under the Conservatives , the plan be to bring the job , technology and opportunity of small modular reactor to this country , as part the ambition for up to 25 % of our electricity to come from nuclear by 2050 . I have be talk with business in South Ribble about achieve net zero . business on Leyland business park be explore geothermal , and we also have the huge advantage of the Howick Cross substation bring in energy from offshore wind , onshore wind in Scotland , and the north - west and Welsh nuclear fleet . do my right hon . friend agree that , in future , business will look to site themselves where there be reliable and accessible cheap energy , and that South Ribble be well place to take advantage of that ? my hon . friend be quite right to highlight the benefit and attraction of South Ribble , and indeed the wide UK economy . it be not just that the area that have those service will attract business within the United Kingdom : by rewire and lead the world in deliver a low - cost , low - carbon energy system , we can attract more investment from abroad and have a renaissance , not least in the north of England but also in Wales and Scotland — all around the country . that be a result of the net zero policy that , uniquely , this country be manage to lead the world on follow so many year of labour failure . the Minister will know that the Climate Change Committee have a key role in advise the Government on their path to net zero , but he will also know that 18 month on from the resignation of Lord Deben as chair of that committee , the Government still have not announce a replacement , despite 60 application for the role have be submit and several people already have be interview . be the Government scare of have their record scrutinise , or be they simply determined to destroy any last shred of the UK ' s climate leadership ? will the Minister tell we now when the selection will be announce ? give the hon . Lady ' s lifelong passion for this subject , I find it extraordinary that she never , ever recognise the unique achievement of this country in halve emission . I would have think she would celebrate that . as the hon . Lady will know , the Climate Change Committee ' s chair be not just a matter for the UK Government . the appointment of the chair of that committee have to be agree by the devolved Administrations as well , and we be move as quickly as we can . who be hold it up ? the good thing , as barrister know , be to not ask a question unless you already know the answer , because it might not suit you . we be move as quickly as we can to make sure that we have a chairman in place . I share the hon . Lady ' s belief that it be an important role , and we want to have it fill as quickly as possible . one of the most effective way in which we can hit our net zero target be by deliver an effective carbon capture and storage industry , and I be delighted to see the Government make an announcement just before Christmas about the next round of that . the Morecambe bay net zero project base in my constituency could deliver a gigaton of carbon storage , help some of our most energy - intensive industry through this transition period . I invite my right hon . friend to come and visit . I be not the Minister who lead on carbon capture , usage and storage , so I may have just swerve a visit , but of course I be always delighted to talk to my hon . friend . if I can lean on my colleague in the House of Lords who be responsible for that policy area , I will let he know of my hon . friend ' s kind offer . I share his enthusiasm : by capture the renewable around the UK and convert they into low - cost electricity , as we be also take forward hydrogen and use the natural blessing of have so much carbon capture capability , we can deliver this country the job , the opportunity and the low - cost energy system for the future . I look forward to my hon . friend ' s continue support . I call the shadow Minister . have share a constituency border with the former Member for Kingswood for 14 year , I know that he be genuine in want what be good for his constituent . he know that a green transition would protect their job at Rolls - Royce and Airbus , help the science park to thrive , and bring opportunity for small and medium - sized enterprise and the self - employ . he know that home insulation and clean energy would bring warm home to Warmley and Woodstock , and low bill to Bitton . he resign because he have lose all hope that this Government would deliver on those thing . he be right , be he not ? just to spell it out — because we do have to speak very slowly for the Opposition Front - Bench team — we have cut our emission more than any other major economy , and our plan and the expectation of the UN be that we will continue to lead the world . that be lead the world : not talk about it , not promise to borrow £ 28 billion and put everyone ' s taxis up , and then fluctuate on a daily basis . it be about delivery . we have deliver and will continue to do so . if we want to see the reality of Labour on energy , we only need to go to Nottingham . there , Labour invest in Robin Hood Energy , which go spectacularly bust — a forerunner of a Labour Government , perhaps , if there ever be to be one . it be typical of Labour to reverse all the principle of Robin Hood : all Labour do be steal from the poor in order to pay for the bailiff . Home Energy Efficiency Measures how many home have energy efficiency measure instal in ( a ) 2010 and ( b ) 2022 . how many home have energy efficiency measure instal in ( a ) 2010 and ( b ) 2022 . because of our plan , half of home now meet the Government ' s 2035 energy performance certificate band c goal , a significant jump from 14 % in 2010 . in 2010 , low - cost measure be target , with 960 , 000 installation . in 2022 , funding shift to high - cost measure to benefit low - income household and less - efficient home , result in approximately 200 , 000 installation last year . I fear that the Minister may be refer rather too much to new build home . the reality be that in 2010 there be 1 . 8 million insulation measure introduce into cavity wall and loft , yet in 2022 , in comparison , there be only 80 , 000 . that have leave my constituent in Reading and Woodley , who mainly live in victorian and 20th - century home , struggle with very high bill , so what be the Minister go to do about that ? the hon . Gentleman do not acknowledge that we have move from 14 % to 50 % because of the action of a Conservative Government . to answer his question directly , we be allocate around £ 20 billion to clean heat and energy efficiency over this Parliament and the next , which will benefit his constituent . that include our great british insulation scheme , worth £ 1 billion , which will deliver insulation measure to around 300 , 000 of the country ' s least energy - efficient home , save they £ 300 to £ 400 each year by March 2026 . I echo the observation of my hon . friend the Member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) . I remember in 2008 - 09 , long before I come into this place , work endlessly with Cambridge City Council and energy provider on encourage people in the city to take up home insulation scheme . since then , we have see precisely nothing — nothing have be go on . Labour have a huge ambition for the future ; what be the Government ' s ambition ? I know mathematic be not a strong point for the Labour party , but I will go over the figure again : 14 % to 50 % over the course of the last three Parliaments , deliver by the action of this Conservative Government . we have a plan to continue to deliver for the least well - off in those home that need more energy efficiency measure . as I just say to the hon . member ' s colleague , we be allocate £ 20 billion to clean heat mechanism over this and the next Parliament , and we be go to continue to deliver for the british people . thousand of new home be be build across the Kettering constituency . what be my hon . friend do , together with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , to decarbonise the future housing stock and improve energy efficiency in new build housing ? we recently announce further detail of the £ 6 billion extension that will be allocate from 2025 to 2028 . this will support an extra 500 , 000 home — prioritise those who need it most , but include new build — and be on top of support for 700 , 000 family to install improvement through the great british insulation scheme and the energy company obligation by March 2026 . Prepayment Meters : compensation what recent discussion she have have with Ofgem on the compensation payment process for household that have have prepayment meter wrongfully instal . I have meet Ofgem and supplier to reiterate my expectation that the new rule will be follow . Ofgem have announce that if a supplier wrongfully install a prepayment meter , it will be expect to compensate its customer appropriately . force the installation of prepayment meter in the home of some of our poor and most vulnerable constituent be , frankly , a scandal . although the Government rightly pause force installation last year , some energy company have be allow to resume this outrageous practice under a new rule regime , which the Minister refer to , that still face many question . do the Minister think that in the middle of winter — in a week when we have see temperature drop dramatically — we can trust energy supplier that have a history of unscrupulous practice in force - fit energy meter in the home of vulnerable people to , in effect , self - regulate ? will the Government instead legislate to ban the scandalous force installation of prepayment meter once and for all ? I acknowledge how awful it be that people have their home break into to force fit prepayment meter , but there be also a place for prepayment meter to enable people and to support people out of debt . I reassure the House that I have scrutinise every level of the regime for prepayment meter , now that we be go back to reinforcement , to absolutely ensure that we will not see all the scandalous practice that happen before . oil and Gas Sector what step she be take to support the oil and gas sector . the North sea be a mature basin and production will naturally decline in the come year . the Government be commit to support our oil and gas industry and the energy transition , which be why we have the North sea transition deal and have introduce the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill . we want to protect investment , the 200 , 000 job support by the sector and the ten of billion of pound come in in taxis , as well as to use the exist industry to deliver the wide energy transition . the Government ' s action to use gas and oil reserve in the UK for the smooth transition to renewable source be important for our energy security , but also offer great employment and wealth prospect in the process . be the Minister aware that Offshore Energies UK publish a workforce insight last year that highlight that the number of people work in the sector could be increase by 50 % ? for that to become a reality , the sector need to be stable and competitive . what commitment can my right hon . friend offer to the stability and competitiveness of the sector ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . this be a decline basin , and it be so important as we go through the transition that we do not lose the skill and job of those people who be provide the oil and gas on which we currently rely . no country be do more to decarbonise than we be , but we will continue to use oil and gas for decade to come . as our production fall even more quickly than our demand , and even more quickly than be require globally , it be essential that we support the industry , send the signal that my right hon . Friend suggest , and rebut the attitude of the Labour party , which would destroy those job , lose the tax and put up emission . I welcome the fact that , belatedly , the Government have accept that , despite their net - zero policy , the oil and gas industry be important for the future in the United Kingdom . do the Minister recognise that to benefit from the oil and gas in the North sea that will be release by the new licensing regime , we need to have refinery capacity ? there have be little , if any , investment in refinery capacity , because of the uncertainty of the future and the carbon taxis place on it . when will the Minister address that issue to ensure that we get the full benefit of the oil and gas that we extract from our shore ? effectively , we be part of a european market . Most of the gas that we produce be consume in the United Kingdom , and most of our oil be refine elsewhere in Europe and contribute to european and UK energy security , as it be convert into product . it be one join - up market for historical reason , and our refinery be use predominantly for oil that come from abroad , as oppose to that which come from the North sea . these be multi - decadal investment , and as part of a manage decline in demand we will see refinery capacity reduce over time . we be do absolutely everything to do this in the most sensible manner possible , and it be a shame that Labour Members would have we import more . they be all in favour of oil and gas job , so long as they be not in the UK , and they will bring in foreign import from which we will get no job and no tax , with high emission . it make no sense , and only the right hon . member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) could champion such an insane policy . energy - intensive Industries : Decarbonisation what step her Department be take to help energy - intensive industry to decarbonise . as chair of the all - party group on carbon capture , utilisation and storage , the hon . Member will know that the Government have commit £ 20 billion to support the early development of carbon capture , usage and storage , and up to £ 500 million for the industrial energy transformation fund to help industry to decarbonise , with phase 3 opening shortly . I welcome the investment in carbon capture — we just need to get on and make something happen there . teesside be home to some of the most energy - intensive industry in the country , but instead of attract more of those industry , include primary steel making , we be see plant close down and job lose because investor do not see any industrial strategy from the Government . high energy cost mean that it be cheap to import many of the good that until now we have make at home . why be the Government content to see this manage decline , rather than back the kind of strategy that will protect exist industry and drive investment and job creation ? this Government invest throughout the country with our levelling - up agenda , but we have of course be invest in the steel industry , and we be mindful to ensure that we have the skill that will take we forward for those future requirement . I call the shadow Minister . my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) be of course absolutely right : we have see manage decline under this Government , with no coherent industrial strategy , total failure to get the grid connect where we need it , and different Departments give mixed message and provide complicated process to access any support . on top of all that , our industry have to pay twice as much on its energy bill compare with european competitor . a recent report by UK Steel state that our steel producer have to pay £ 117 million more per year on electricity , force the Government to deliver a subsidy through the supercharger , which in turn raise bill for everybody else . instead of such short - term policy , be it time for Labour ' s industrial strategy , Labour ' s grid reform and labour ' s mission to become a clean energy superpower , so that we can permanently cut bill for everyone , grow our economy and give Britain its future back ? this Government have demonstrate our commitment to help across the domestic and non - domestic sector . however , we also recognise the vital role that the steel sector play in our economy . in fact , the 2021 net zero strategy reaffirm our commitment to continue to work with the steel industry on decarbonisation . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . the UK be the first major economy to halve its emission . since the Prime Minister ' s speech in September , we have announce the £ 960 million green industry growth accelerator , help to deliver the first global agreement to transition away from fossil fuel at COP28 , act to protect motorist from unfair price at petrol station , announce backing for 11 major project to produce green hydrogen , and commit to the big nuclear expansion in 70 year . we have a plan . our plan be work and it will get we to net zero . it will guarantee our energy security and bring consumer and the british people with we . my constituent have tell I they be no long eligible to receive the warm home discount , which , along with Ofgem ' s price increase , be make the cost of live even more severe in the City of Durham . will the Minister meet I to discuss that ? what , if any , discussion have he have with the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work , the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) about the impact of fuel poverty on disabled people ? we be provide targeted support for the most vulnerable through the warm home discount . I be pleased to say that we have raise it to £ 150 and extend it so that it now reach 3 million low - income household , give they a rebate on their energy bill every winter . Kettering be one of the green constituency in the country , because the wind turbine and solar panel in the constituency generate enough electricity to power all 45 , 000 home . for the country as a whole , what percentage of our electricity be generate from renewable when the Conservatives come to power in 2010 , and what be the percentage now ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . he will be delighted to learn that renewable generation have increase fivefold from 2010 to 2022 . it have go from a risible 26 TWh to 135 TWh . some 40 GW of renewable energy have connect to Great Britain ' s electricity network since 2010 . since 2010 , the UK have see a more than 500 % increase in the amount of renewable electricity capacity in the grid thank to this Conservative Government . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in the past month , the former Prime Minister who legislate for net zero have condemn the Minister ' s oil and gas policy . his colleague the former COP President have accuse the Government of " not be serious " and the Government ' s net zero tsar have resign his seat in disgust . why do the Minister think that that be ? as we have rehearse , the UK be the first major economy to halve its emission . it be the one that be deliver more go forward . it be so important that we recognise that we will continue to need oil and gas for decade to come . the Labour party ' s policy will do the opposite ; it will weaken british job , reduce taxis and put up emission , and that be why we remain committed , work across society , to ensure that we deliver . it be not just we who oppose the Minister ' s Bill , but those on his own side — he have lose an MP over it . I know he bring down the last Government over fracke ; he be try to do it again with his new Bill . that be the reason that people have lose confidence . they see the hot year on record and a Government backslide on net zero . be it not the truth that the Conservatives who know and care most about climate change no long support this government ? the right hon . Gentleman would love to think that be the case , but the conservative party be unite in drive this forward and in deliver . we be power up Britain from Britain . we have take ourselves from the abject position leave by he when he be in government , which so many of my colleague have describe . we must not go back to that , because it would put bill up , it would put emission up , and it would stop we be the global net zero leader that we be . the Prime Minister recently visit Bacton gas terminal in North Norfolk , which be home to a third of the UK ' s gas supply and in the future could be an enormous hub for green energy production in the east of England . will Ministers reassure I that they will continue to consider Bacton as the future home for carbon capture , usage and storage technology as well as a hydrogen hub for the future in the east of England ? I agree with my hon . friend and the Prime Minister on the importance of Bacton , which , like all gas terminal across the country , have the potential to play a crucial role in our energy security . the decarbonisation of these terminal be vital to deliver both economic growth and net zero . the Hewett field , 20 km offshore from Bacton , be award a licence for carbon sea storage by the North Sea Transition Authority in 2023 . I hear his loud voice — it will be hear on the Government Benches — about its potential to be a hydrogen hub as well . datum release last year suggest that Britain have one of the large queue in Europe of wind and solar capacity wait to be connect to the grid . will the Minister provide an update on what step the Department be take to reduce those waiting time ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to highlight that issue . at the autumn statement , we announce plan to halve the time it take to build new critical powerline as well as reduce average delay from five year to no more than six month . the connection action plan at the more local level will release more than 100 GW of capacity and give power to the system operator to terminate stall project . we be seek across multiple department — lead by this one — to deal with the issue that she rightly raise . a & P Falmouth in my constituency have submit an application to the Government for float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme funding in readiness to support the first float offshore wind project in english water . with Government support , it could supply electricity to 45 , 000 home in Cornwall . the scheme be shovel - ready , pragmatic and deliverable , with huge support from local stakeholder as well as be vital to build the supply chain far in the south - west . will my hon . friend , alongside Department for Transport colleague , carefully consider the application to help I deliver that for Cornwall , the south - west and the Celtic sea cluster ? it be incredibly encouraging to hear about what be happen at A & P Falmouth . as my hon . friend know , the float offshore wind manufacture investment scheme be provide up to £ 160 million to support investment in UK port . however , while FLOWMIS be still live , I be afraid I can not comment on individual application . More than 15 % of family in my constituency live in fuel poverty , with a median energy efficiency score of just 65 . how much of the 2019 general election manifesto pledge to spend £ 9 . 2 billion on improve energy efficiency have go on retrofit exist property and not on new build ? I will have to write to the hon . member with the figure , but the Government remain firmly committed to new build as well as to retrofit . many Chelmsford resident have already switch to electric vehicle . those who live in house with driveway pay just 5 % vat when they charge their car at home , but those who live in terrace house , who be often less well off , have to pay 20 % vat when they use a commercial charger . I fully understand that tax be a matter for the Treasury Ministers , but do my right hon . friend agree that if we could level out this tax , we could make electric vehicle more affordable to all people and thus help with our transition towards a low carbon economy ? as we make the transition , it be essential that we do so fairly , not least for those with less . we have commit to keep the transition to electric vehicle affordable for consumer , and we support innovation for those without a home charger such as cross - pavement cable channel and peer - to - peer charging scheme . I know that my right hon . friend will continue to raise the vat issue . as she rightly say , all taxis , include vat relief , be keep under review by the Chancellor . the hospitality sector be very important to Chester . talk to the Chester business improvement district this morning , and follow comment from chef Gary Usher , it be clear that the damaging impact of sky - high energy bill be still feel extremely significantly . what hope can the Minister offer hard - press restaurateur in Chester and across the country ? I be aware of the challenge face all the industry . I have ongoing talk with ukhospitality and other group . there be thing that we can do , such as blend and extend , and we be look at the broker , and ensure that third - party intermediary be do their job correctly . drive down to Parliament , I pass petrol station . in my constituency , price be 136 . 9p and 137 . 9p . however , at the service station , they be 164 . 9p and 167 . 9p . that be a massive difference , which the public just will not tolerate and want something to be do about it . what will the Government do ? road fuel price be down for a second consecutive month . petrol price be now at a level not see since early October 2021 , follow our work to bring transparency to the market . today , we launch the consultation to require petrol station to report real - time price , which will mean that driver can compare price and get the good deal , and price will fall through great competition . I be sorry to hear that the Secretary of State be ill , but could the Minister explain why she have take money from Michael Hintze , funder of the Global Warming Policy Foundation , an organisation that peddle climate science denial ? do he think that be appropriate ? I apologise for the Secretary of State not be here . I will write to the hon . Lady promptly in answer to her question . transparency be important in the development of the energy sector . National Grid be refuse to publish its assessment of Bradwell as a potential landfall site for cable and interconnector . it must be logical to prioritise brownfield site with exist connection to the electricity network . will my right hon . friend please require National Grid to publish fully its assessment so far ? when my right hon . friend think that something be important , she do not let it go . that message will go out clearly from this Chamber , and I will happily work with she to see whether we can find a resolution and give she the information and insight that she require . follow the recent state visit from the korean President , when he identify nuclear as one of the key sector for future collaboration in the UK - Korea trade deal , and the publication — albeit two year later than promise — of the civil nuclear road map last week , could the Minister please detail what conversation be take place with the Department for Business and Trade to maximise inward investment opportunity for the nuclear supply chain in Warrington North and across the UK ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and for her support for our nuclear road map publish last week . as she know , we look forward to increase the opportunity to co - operate with South Korea on civil nuclear , include on fuel supply chain safety , security , non - proliferation , decommissioning and the development of new reactor in both country . that will benefit job and the supply chain around the UK , specifically where there be a strong history of a nuclear industry , such as in her constituency , which she champion . the additional power supply from offshore wind farm be create the need for further pylon , yet if we double the voltage of power line from 400 kV to 800 kV , we might not need they . that be use in China and America , and would stop the need for all the additional power line run up and down the country . will the Department look into that ? it will be useful for we both if I write to my hon . friend and set out the technical assessment , constraint and issue around that , because he make an interesting point . the Government have finally commit to a carbon border adjustment mechanism to protect our energy - intensive industry from be undercut by import make with dirty energy or in more heavily pollute process . will the Minister explain why the Government be delay that until 2027 , when the EU be introduce equivalent legislation a whole year early ? will he speak urgently to ministerial colleague about bring that date forward , both to protect our industry and reduce our carbon footprint ? I thank the hon . Lady for her support for the introduction of a carbon border adjustment mechanism . this be to make sure that we do not have carbon leakage — to use the jargon — where carbon cost impose on company here lead to that production simply go abroad , with no betterment to the planet . his Majesty ' s Treasury take the lead on this particular policy , but I will ensure that her sentiment be pass on to my Treasury colleague . can my hon . friend confirm that , give all the question about carbon accounting , sustainability and value for taxpayer ' money , the Government will not be guarantee Drax billion more in subsidy ? as my hon . friend know , we will shortly be consult on potential support arrangement to help facilitate the transition of large - scale biomass generation to power bioenergy with carbon capture and storage . power bioenergy with carbon capture and storage could deliver negative emission to support our climate change target and the UK ' s energy security . business of the House with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a short business statement about an addition to this week ' s business . follow the announcement by my right hon . friend the Home Secretary that the Government intend to proscribe Hizb ut - Tahrir under the Terrorism Act 2000 , the business on Thursday will now be : Thursday 18 January — a motion to approve the draft Terrorism Act 2000 ( Proscribed Organisations ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 , follow by a debate on a motion on the loan charge , follow by a debate on a motion on HS2 compensation . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . I will announce further business in the usual way on Thursday . I call the shadow Leader of the House . I thank the Leader of the House for update the House on the business for Thursday , and for advance sight of it . it be good to see she announce a change in business as a statement , rather than a point of order , and I know that member will appreciate that proper approach . there have long be serious concern about the activity of Hizb ut - Tahrir , which have be exacerbate in the light of Hamas ' s barbaric terrorist attack on Israel on 7 October . it be right that the Government have look at the evidence and intelligence on the threat pose by the group , and Labour support the decision to proscribe it . I also welcome the fact that urgent time have be find to debate the order this week . those who incite violence and promote or glorify terrorism have no place on Britain ' s street . in that context , what progress have be make on proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , either via a statutory instrument , as the Government be use this week for Hizb ut - Tahrir , or by a new process to deal with hostile state actor for which there be wide cross - party support in this House ? finally , I have to say that when I be first notify of an emergency business statement today , I do wonder whether the Government be have a rethink about their Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill in the face of the usual infighting and chaos . can the Leader of the House take this opportunity to confirm that , whether the Bill be or be not amend in Committee today or tomorrow , there will still be , as program , Third reading at the end of tomorrow ' s business ? there have be some suggestion that the Government may still table their own amendment and push third read back to another day . would that not be further proof of the Prime Minister ' s weakness and the fact that , when it come to governing , they be just make it up as they go along ? first , I thank the hon . Lady for her support for the statutory instrument that we be bring forward . the Home Office have take its time to consider the matter , but it be very clear that the activity the group be involve in fall into that category . they need to be deal with swiftly , which be why we bring forward the SI at the first available opportunity . the hon . Lady talk about the point of order I make last week . she will fully appreciate that this be a different situation . I be make a business statement today because we be change the business that be previously announce . last week , I be simply give member advance notice of forthcoming business , because if I have wait until our exchange on Thursday , it would have mean an unsatisfactory amount of time for right hon . and hon . member to prepare amendment . I will certainly ensure that the Home Secretary have hear the hon . Lady ' s query about the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . its activity be not restrict to what be happen overseas ; it be engage in activity on british soil against british citizen . I know that there be a great deal of interest in that in all part of the House . as the hon . Lady will know , the progress of the Rwanda Bill be subject to the House , and I shall make further business announcement in the usual way . as a member of the Defence Committee , I know that it be an open secret that Iran be paymaster to , and help to train , Hamas , Hezbollah and the Houthi rebel in Yemen — there be no doubt about that throughout the international intelligence community . I warmly welcome the decision to proscribe Hizb ut - Tahrir . however , give what I have just say , and give the action that we have take against the Houthi rebel in order to maintain freedom of navigation on the sea , can the Leader of the House foresee any circumstance in which she could return to the House in the near future to make a similar announcement about proscribe the irgc ? I thank my right hon . friend for his very helpful question . I know that this be an issue of great concern to many member . he will appreciate that the Home Secretary and the Government will want to make any future announcement in a timely way while also consider all the effect that such a course of action might bring about , not least to our ship and their insurance , but I shall ensure that the Home Secretary have hear what he have say . do the Scottish National party spokesperson wish to ask a question ? indicate dissent . I call Kevin Brennan . give that the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee be not present and that the announcement have an impact on Thursday ' s Backbench business , can the Leader of the House give we any information about the timing of the debate ? will there be a timetable motion , as there would be if the business be take in a Committee upstairs — probably allow an hour and a half in normal circumstance — and why have the Leader of the House decide that it should be take on the Floor of the House rather than upstairs ? I apologise to the Backbench Business Committee — I know that this will eat into its time on Thursday — but this be an important matter that we want to deal with swiftly , and we therefore feel that it be appropriate for it to be deal with on the Floor of the House . I thank the Leader of the House for the statement and welcome the intention to hold the debate on Thursday . in response to the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) — a fellow member of the Defence Committee — the Leader of the House say that the Home Secretary would come back to the House " in a timely way " . as the right hon . Member highlight , the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps supply the Houthis , especially with drone material , and it be also commit international action last night in northern Iraq . rather than talk of a " timely way , " many of we in the Defence Committee would say , " time ' s up . " I wonder whether the Leader of the House could reinforce to the Home Secretary the fact that across the House there be a clamour to proscribe the irgc at the soon opportunity . I thank the hon . gentleman for that helpful question . I will ensure that the Home Secretary have hear what he have say . the action that he have describe be not new ; I think that , on average , that organisation have be behind about 500 attack during any recent year against international shipping and people go about their daily business , and , as I have say , it be also engage in activity in the UK . as a member of the Defence Committee , the hon . Gentleman will know of some the issue that surround this decision , but I be sure that if and when the Home Secretary make his decision , he will want the House to be alert at the early opportunity . I welcome the statement and clarification of the business for Thursday . the Leader of the House will be aware of the high level of terrorism and the severe threat to people in Northern Ireland from the real IRA and the New IRA . there be surely a connection between such terrorist group in Northern Ireland and those who have sympathy towards the Hamas terrorist — be it not wonderful how terrorist across the world come together to murder innocent people ? with regard to the business on Thursday , may I ask the Leader of the House — ever mindful of the fact that only certain thing can be say in the House — if it might be possible to indicate whether the threat from the real IRA and the connection with the proscribe Hamas can be clarify evidentially , and if so , what measure will be take to reinforce the action of step down hard on the real IRA and the New IRA ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this important matter . as he will know , it be not a matter for I in connection with the business of the House , but he have characteristically make the point that he wish to make and put it on the record , and I shall ensure that the Home Secretary have hear it . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . last week I attend a Committee consider a statutory instrument on the immigration health surcharge , and , as would be expect in such a forum , I be ask question of the Minister — in this instance , the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border , the hon . member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) — who be unable to answer a number of those question . I should give credit to the Minister — I have alert he to my intention to raise this point of order — because he have since write to I , ahead of the House finally agree to the statutory instrument yesterday , and I thank he for that courtesy . however , that be not the first time that I have be in a statutory instrument Committee and Ministers have be unable to answer question . in this case it be off the back of a detailed impact assessment conduct by the Home Office , but on other occasion minister have be unable to supply answer on fairly basic information . I want to raise the matter with you , Madam Deputy Speaker , because it seem to I that this be an inadequate and inopportune way for the House to operate . we be there to scrutinise the legislation of the Government of the day , and we be hamper in do so if Ministers be unable to give we answer and instead promise , variously , to write to we or tell we about the issue involve at a later stage , or sometimes even brush off the question . I wonder whether you would like to say anything on this matter , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order and for give I notice of it . I assume that she do inform the Minister that she intend to raise it . obviously , Ministers be responsible for their own reply to member in Delegated Legislation Committees , as they be in the Chamber . I note that the hon . Lady say that the Minister do she the courtesy of writing after the event , but I think we would all believe — and it be certainly my view — that Ministers should have all the relevant information to hand when respond to a debate . the Leader of the House be here and have clearly listen carefully to what the hon . Lady have say . I be sure that she will take that point back , as will other on the Treasury Bench . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I can tell the House that this be not an isolated incident in statutory instrument Committees , but surely it be not good enough , because the Ministers who be answer question about an impact assessment have sign that impact assessment and date it to confirm that they be responsible and fully aware of its content . if Ministers be indeed sign off impact assessment on statutory instrument and present they to Committees without know the content , that be an extremely troubling revelation . I note the point that the hon . Gentleman have make . let I say again that this be up to individual Ministers ; we can not test they from the Chair before they respond to a debate on a statutory instrument . rise — I sense that the Leader of the House might like to provide a brief response . far to the point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . we take these matter very seriously , and I will ensure that the point that member have raise be bring to the attention of the Departments that have be mention . I would just add that a great deal of work have be do by the Select Committee on Statutory Instruments , which have be look into how we can improve these process , the quality of impact assessment and so forth , and a large training programme take place in Departments . my noble Friend Lord True and I have also undertake session with Ministers deal with statutory instrument , involve training and improve the quality of what be put forward to enable the House to scrutinise legislation properly . there will be incident , I be sure , particularly with complex brief , where someone can not recall the information while at the Dispatch Box , but as the textbook example set out by the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) with regard to my hon . friend the Minister for Legal Migration and the Border show , when those situation arise , Ministers be very aware of their responsibility to get back to hon . member before those statutory instrument come into effect . in that helpful intervention the Leader of the House have outline the programme that be in train , and I be sure that right hon . and hon . member will keep their beady eye on the situation and Ministers will ensure that they be as well prepared as possible . Bills present Unpaid Trial Work Periods ( prohibition ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Stewart Malcolm McDonald , support by Kirsten Oswald , Ms Anum Qaisar , David Linden , Deidre Brock , Patricia Gibson , Alison Thewliss , Allan Dorans , Stuart C . McDonald , Dr Philippa Whitford , Alyn Smith and Ian Blackford , present a Bill to prohibit unpaid trial work period ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 15 March , and to be print ( Bill 144 ) . Military Action ( parliamentary Approval ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Richard Foord present a Bill to require parliamentary approval for the deployment of UK armed force for armed conflict ; to provide for exemption from that requirement in case of emergency or in respect of compliance with treaty obligation ; to make provision for retrospective parliamentary approval in certain circumstance ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 26 January , and to be print ( Bill 146 ) . Scotland ( Self - Determination ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) 1 . 1 pm I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to amend the Scotland Act 1998 to transfer the power to legislate for a scottish independence referendum to the Scottish Parliament ; to provide that that power may only be exercise where the scottish public have demonstrate its support for the holding of such a referendum ; to provide that no such referendum may be hold soon than seven year after the previous such referendum ; and for connected purpose . Madam Deputy Speaker , " I ' m stand up for the right of self - determination . I ' m stand up for our territory . I ' m stand up for our people . I ' m stand up for international law . I ' m stand up for all those territory — those small territory and people the world over " . those be the word of then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher , recount in her memoir " the Downing Street Years " . she go on to say : " the principle of self - determination have become a fundamental component of international law and be enshrine in the UN Charter " . that principle she speak of — the principle of the self - determination of people — be enshrine in the United Nations charter when Prime Minister Winston Churchill sign the 1941 atlantic charter . any notion that scot freely enter into the Union by an act of self - determination have no credibility whatsoever . in 1707 a majority of scottish parliamentarian may have be persuade , but the people be never consult . the act of Union in 1707 between England and Scotland create the kingdom of Great Britain , establish a single political entity yet preserve the territorial , legal and institutional integrity of each partner country . the UK ' s constitution be not codify in a single document , so the question of whether the act of Union can be unilaterally dissolve by one party be not clear . however , the accept position hitherto be that the Union be a voluntary association of equal partner and that Scotland have an unquestione right of self - determination . Scotland ' s distinct constitutional tradition be well express by Lord Cooper in the case of MacCormick v . Lord Advocate : " the principle of the unlimited sovereignty of Parliament be a distinctively english principle , which have no counterpart in scottish constitutional law " . in the pleading of the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) in her prorogation case to the UK Supreme Court , it be note that the 1707 parliamentary Union between England and Scotland may have create a new state but do not create one nation . in recent year the UK state have steadfastly refuse to acknowledge or honour that principle or the democratic wish of the scottish electorate . accord to the distinguished academic and legal practitioner in international law , Professor Robert McCorquodale , " the people of Scotland be distinct within the UK and have a right to self - determination … and as the people of Scotland be a people for the purpose of the right to self - determination … the choice of the mean to exercise it be for the people to decide and not for the state . " these be not obscure or arcane point of law ; they be precise and purposeful , and accord to Professor McCorquodale such treaty obligation be " bind under international law on all state " . the question of whether the ancient nation of Scotland should be an independent country once again continue to be the subject of much debate . in short , with current support sit at 50 % across the population and above 70 % among young people , the matter be far from settle . it be entirely proper for any country to review such important matter because Scotland will only become independent as and when a majority of the people of Scotland choose that path . this demand the use of a democratic mechanism that be constitutional and satisfy international legal precedent . this Bill seek to standardise and codify such a requirement in line with the motion pass by this House that endorse the principle of the 1989 claim of right and acknowledge the sovereign right of the scottish people to determine the form of government well suit to their need . at that time the claim of right be support by every political party save the Tories . in particular , Liberal Democrat mp such as Ray Michie and Charles Kennedy be forthright in their support for the principle of scottish sovereignty . they be follow a home rule tradition in that party which never for a second dispute Scotland ' s right of self - determination , albeit they think Scotland should choose a form of federalism rather than independence . it would be unfortunate today if , have already desert their historic commitment to the european cause , the Liberal Democrats be to follow that by desert their historic commitment to respect Scotland ' s national right . this morning the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) call this Bill , which favour neither one side nor the other , " divisive and unnecessary " , when it be anything but . it be in fact both liberal and fundamentally democratic . the effect of this Bill should be uncontroversial for every Member . it merely establish in law an equivalent mechanism to the principle already concede by the UK Government in relation to a border poll in Northern Ireland . first , it establish that the power to legislate for a referendum require a democratic mandate from the scottish public to do so . since 2014 that criterion have be meet in successive general election to the Scottish Parliament , most recently in 2021 when a majority of MSPs be elect and a majority of vote be cast in favour of a manifesto commitment to deliver an independence referendum . secondly , the Bill state that no such referendum may be hold any soon than seven year after any previous such referendum . should member of this Chamber deny Scotland her legitimate claim on self - determination , that will put beyond doubt that the voice of the people of Scotland be not welcome in this place and that a new approach must be consider . this Bill offer both remedy and route . it place the power to decide firmly where it belong , in the hand of the people of Scotland , and it do so by transfer the power to hold a referendum on independence to the Scottish Parliament . it be a parallel initiative to that be lead by my Alba party colleague Ash Regan MSP in the Scottish Parliament . Ms Regan have bring forward a draft Bill that will allow for a referendum to be hold to ask the people of Scotland if they think that the Scottish Parliament should have the power to negotiate and legislate for independence . its purpose be to consult the people of Scotland on their opinion on extend the provision of their Parliament to hold such a referendum — a proposition support by the expert legal opinion of Aidan o ' Neill KC . both proposal have at their heart the democratic imperative that Scotland ' s political destiny must be in the hand of the people of Scotland , not in the hand of the Westminster Parliament or the Supreme Court . how do the behaviour of the UK Government or the repeatedly espouse position of the Opposition party constitute access to meaningful political process , as claim in the recent UK Supreme Court judgment ? in the aftermath of the 2014 referendum , the all - party Smith commission agreement be sign by all Scotland ' s main political party — SNP , Labour , Tory and Liberal Democrat — and it state : " it be agree that nothing in this report prevent Scotland become an independent country in the future should the people of Scotland so choose . " while each have fail to deliver on that commitment , this Bill provide a necessarily equitable and democratic mechanism for the people of Scotland . in 1889 in this place the equality of the UK partner country be assert by a Liberal MP , William Ewart Gladstone , when he say that " if I be to suppose a case in which Scotland unanimously , or by a clearly preponderate voice , be to make the demand on the United Parliament to be treat , not only on the same principle , but in the same manner as Ireland , I could not deny the title of Scotland to urge such a claim . " — [ Official Report , 9 April 1889 Vol 335 c 101 ] John Major , when he be Prime Minister , say of Scotland that " no nation could be hold irrevocably in a Union against its will . " it be increasingly apparent that this be not a Union of equal . the UK be wilfully subvert the will of the people of Scotland by deny they their establish human right , as enshrine in the UN charter and in international treaty obligation that the UK state enter freely . I cite the word of Lady Thatcher at the opening of my speech , but she go far : " the Scots , be an historic nation with a proud past . . . have an undoubted right to national self - determination . . . should they determine on independence , no English party or politician would stand in their way , however much we might regret their departure . " whether I like it or loathe it , we be in this Union . I hold that it be incumbent on every MP elect on an independence ticket to explore every option with courage and conviction . today this Chamber face a choice : affirm that this be a voluntary Union of equal or tell the world that Scotland be a mere possession to do with as it wish . this Bill be a necessary condition of secure scottish democracy , and I commend it to the House . I congratulate the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) on secure this ten - minute rule Bill and on his knowledge of liberal political history . I have to confess , though , that my overwhelming sentiment on hearing of this Bill be , " oh , not again ! " surely this have be settle not just by the Supreme Court ruling but by the repeat occasion on which the people of Scotland — include I and other mps here — the electorate of several constituency and the majority of people at the last general election , and in the referendum , make it clear that , no , we can not be hold in a Union against our will , but that our will be to stay . on the anniversary of parliamentary approval of the Act of Union in 1707 , we be go over the same nationalist argument again and again — an argument that be reject in the referendum and at the general election . this could and should be a day when the people of this country might expect their elect representative to be consider the importance of what have go before , as a result of that Act , what we have achieve and build , and what we can continue to build and improve upon as part of the Union . as a liberal and a liberal Democrat , as the hon . Gentleman say , I fundamentally believe in home rule for Scotland , I fundamentally agree that the United Kingdom need to change and I agree that the people of Scotland deserve incremental increase in power , but that be because I believe in a federal United Kingdom and have say so on numerous occasion , and I will continue to do so . in the past 45 year , there have be three referendum on Scotland ' s political future , on the scottish people ' s future and on the state of the constitution . every single one of they be facilitate by the United Kingdom Government and , on every occasion , the scottish people have benefit . we have devolution as a result of the second referendum , and surely even devolution sceptic can see the good that have come from our Parliament . we have see the benefit of devolution not only in Scotland but in Wales , and we have see great change in Northern Ireland and , let we not forget , the London Assembly . the third referendum , on independence in 2014 , be facilitate by the UK Government , who feel that the Scottish Parliament and scottish parliamentary election have prove that there be a mandate . I know this because I work on that referendum — I declare that interest — and , as a result , we have more devolve power . this country have come so far on devolution since the turn of the new century , and power be now close to the people most affect by it . it would be dreadful to undermine that , to throw the baby out with the bath water , with a separatist argument . let we be clear that that be what some colleague want . it be not a secret that I fundamentally disagree with my colleague on the Alba and SNP Benches about independence and where Scotland should be head , particularly at a time when we need to work together in this place to solve the ill that be blight people across these isle . I repeat that , in do so , the UK Government be not a block on more devolution but have work to enable it . whatever nationalist might tell we , independence be not an answer to our problem . it be not even the question that most people in Scotland want to raise . that question be about inflation , interest rate and the cost of living . my constituent constantly ask I about instability across the globe and what we will do about those issue . yes , they want change , but they want a different government and a different approach . they do not want separation , and they regularly tell I that they be feed up of hear about it . they be tired of the negativity and of their world , and their child ' s world , become small because of their government ' s mismanagement and ideological decision . they want to address the problem with our education system in Scotland , with our NHS in Scotland and with our public service in Scotland , all of which have decline during the period of a nationalist Government who have prioritise only independence . we be suffer , and we do not want to do it any more . if the nationalist lift their head from their ideological manifesto on separation , and if they listen a little more to the people of Scotland and stop take their support for grant , perhaps they would know that themselves . the people of Scotland may not like this particular UK Government , and there be time when , frankly , I wholeheartedly agree , but they can see an opportunity for change come in the next few month . perhaps that be why the nationalist be put new impetus into their cause — because they see that there be an opportunity for change come and that people may choose to change the Government rather than the constitution . we all know that the United Kingdom be not perfect . of course it be not . what governmental system be ? it need reform . I believe we need to move forward to a more federal system , but we do not need more division and more rancour at a time when the list of problem in this country be long than any of we would like . the proposition before we would do little to address those very real problem face by my constituent and everyone else in Scotland ; as I say , it would be just one more division , with more argument and the same old grievance . it be time to move on , accept that the will of the scottish people , as express regularly , be to remain in the United Kingdom , and work to improve it and improve the life of all of the people of the UK . the scottish people have express their will . as we have all say , we can not be hold in a Union against our will , but our will be to stay in that United Kingdom . I ask this House not to waste any more time on an argument that the scottish people have settle and will settle again at the next general election . question put ( Standing Order no . 23 ) . Hannah Bardell Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Colum Eastwood Marion Fellows Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Peter Grant Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Drew Hendry Philip Hollobone Stewart Hosie Ben Lake Chris Law David Linden Caroline Lucas Kenny MacAskill John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Gavin Newlands John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Rob Roberts Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Jonathan Edwards Carol Monaghan Debbie Abrahams Nickie Aiken Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Bob Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Kevin Brennan Andrew Bridgen Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Feryal Clark Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Alberto Costa Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie John Cryer Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey James Davies Alex Davies - Jones Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Steve Double Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Richard Drax David Duguid Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Michael Fabricant Tim Farron Colleen Fletcher Richard Foord Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Sally - Ann Hart Helen Hayes John Hayes John Healey Antony Higginbotham Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Ranil Jayawardena Bernard Jenkin Diana R . Johnson Gareth Johnson Kim Johnson Andrew Jones David Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Greg Knight David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Edward Leigh Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Marco Longhi Tim Loughton Holly Lynch Craig Mackinlay Justin Madders Kit Malthouse Keir Mather Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Andy McDonald Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Robin Millar Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan David Morris Grahame Morris James Morris Jill Mortimer Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Ian Paisley Jnr Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Andrew Percy Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Tom Randall John Redwood Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Douglas Ross Lloyd Russell - Moyle Gary Sambrook Andrew Selous Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Greg Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Jo Stevens Iain Stewart Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Justin Tomlinson Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Christian Wakeford Robin Walker Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Mick Whitley Munira Wilson Daniel Zeichner William Wragg Robert Buckland the House divide : Ayes 48 , Noes 228 . question accordingly negative . safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill [ 1st Allocated Day ] consider in Committee [ Dame Rosie Winterton in the Chair ] I remind member that in Committee , Members should not address the Chair as Deputy Speaker . please use our name when address the Chair , or Madam Chair , Chair , Madam Chairman or Mr Chairman be also acceptable , so there be lot of option . what about Dame Rosie ? that be my name — I mention that . clause 2 - safety of the Republic of Rwanda I beg to move amendment 45 , page 2 , line 33 , leave out " a safe " and insert " an unsafe " . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : Amendment 1 , page 2 , line 34 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Secretary of State must lay a report before Parliament no later than one year after this Act be pass , and at least once in every subsequent calendar year , on whether in the judgement of his Majesty ' s Government the Republic of Rwanda be a safe country . " this amendment require the Secretary of State to monitor on an ongoing basis whether Rwanda remain a safe country and to report the outcome to the House . Amendment 46 , page 2 , line 41 , leave out " not " . this amendment would require a court or tribunal to consider review or appeal of decision relate to the removal of a person to Rwanda . Amendment 47 , page 3 , line 3 , leave out " not " . this amendment would require a court or tribunal to consider claim about action of the Republic of Rwanda . Amendment 35 , page 3 , line 4 , leave out paragraph ( a ) . this amendment would permit court and tribunal to deal with systematic risk of refoulement from Rwanda . amendment 56 , page 3 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( d ) any claim or complaint make by a person on the ground that the Republic of Rwanda be not a safe country if the person have — participate or engage in any activity , or make any communication contain serious allegation , which have lead directly to bring into question the safety of the Republic of Rwanda in general or in relation to that person , or ( ii ) collude or conspire with any other person who have participate or engage in any activity , or in any communication contain serious allegation , which could lead directly to bring into question the safety of the Republic of Rwanda in general or in relation to those person . " this amendment would prevent a court or tribunal consider a claim that Rwanda be not a safe country from person who deliberately try to put themselves in jeopardy if they be remove to Rwanda . amendment 10 , page 3 , line 13 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 5a ) this Act and the Illegal Migration Act 2023 will have effect in relation to removal to Rwanda notwithstanding — ( a ) any provision make by or under the Immigration act , ( b ) the Human Rights Act 1998 , ( c ) EU derive law and case law retain under section 2 to 7 of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 , ( d ) any other provision or rule of domestic law ( include any common law ) , and ( e ) international law , include any interpretation of international law by the court or tribunal . ( 5b ) nothing identify in paragraph ( a ) to ( e ) of subsection ( 5A ) may prevent or delay the removal to Rwanda of an individual under this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , or affect the interpretation or application of any provision of this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , include the action or policy of public authority , in relation to the removal of a person to Rwanda . ( 5c ) to the extent that any provision or requirement include in paragraph ( a ) to ( e ) of subsection ( 5A ) have be give effect to in legislation ( include the Asylum and Immigration Appeals Act 1993 , the Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 and the Asylum and Immigration ( Treatment of Claimants etc ) Act 2004 ) , that legislation do not apply in relation to provision make by or by virtue of this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 in relation to the removal of an individual to Rwanda , and shall not prevent or delay the removal to Rwanda of an individual under this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . ( 5D ) a person or body to which subsection ( 5e ) apply may not have regard to international law , in the circumstance mention in subsection ( 5 g ) . ( 5e ) this subsection apply to — ( a ) the Secretary of State or an immigration officer when exercise any function relate to remove , or consider for removal a person to Rwanda under this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , ( b ) a court or tribunal when consider any application or appeal which relate to a decision or purport decision to remove , or to consider the removal of a person to Rwanda under this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . ( 5F ) no inference be to be draw from this section as to whether or not a person or body mention in subsection ( 5e ) would otherwise have be require to have regard to international law . ( 5 g ) the Asylum and Immigration Appeals Act 1993 be amend as follow . ( 5h ) in section 2 at the end insert ' except in relation to the removal of a person to Rwanda under the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 and the Illegal Migration Act 2023 ' . " this amendment specifically exclude the legislation raise in AAA v Secretary of State of the Home Department [ 2023 ] UKSC 42 as potential block to removal and exclude from consideration any international law ( include the echr and anything put out by its court ) . clause stand part . amendment 19 , in clause 4 , page 4 , line 11 , leave out from " whether " to the end of line 14 and insert " and in what manner a person be to be remove , or consider for removal , to Rwanda under this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 " . this and other amendment to clause 4 be intend to remove the ability of individual to block their own removal through suspensive claim and to limit such claim to rare situation where there be bad faith on the part of decision - maker in relation to decision as to medical fitness to travel . amendment 48 , page 4 , line 13 , leave out from " circumstance " to end of line 14 . this amendment be intend to allow the decision - maker to consider whether the Republic of Rwanda be not a safe country in general . amendment 20 , page 4 , line 18 , leave out from " that " to end of line 22 and insert " be expressly permit by this Act or by the Illegal Migration Act 2023 " . this and other amendment to clause 4 be intend to remove the ability of individual to block their own removal through suspensive claim and to limit such claim to rare situation where there be bad faith on the part of decision - maker in relation to decision as to medical fitness to travel . amendment 49 , page 4 , line 20 , leave out from " circumstance " to end of line 22 . this amendment be intend to allow the court or tribunal to consider whether the Republic of Rwanda be not a safe country in general . amendment 37 , page 4 , line 23 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) . this amendment ensure that decision - maker be still able to consider the risk of refoulement when make individual decision on removal to Rwanda . Amendment 50 , page 4 , line 23 , leave out subsection ( 2 ) to ( 7 ) . amendment 2 , page 4 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) any review or appeal under subsection ( 1 ) may be consider only after the person in question have arrive in Rwanda . ( 2b ) the Secretary of State may provide any necessary technical assistance , include access to video - link , to the person in question if it appear reasonable to a Minister of the Crown that such assistance should be provide in order to enable the person in question to request a review or make an appeal after their arrival in Rwanda . ( 2C ) the Secretary of State may provide any necessary incidental or medical assistance to the person in question if it appear reasonable , in the circumstance of that individual person in question , to a Minister of the Crown that such assistance should be provide in order to enable the person in question to travel to , and if necessary to be look after or quarantined follow arrival in , the Republic of Rwanda . ( 2D ) any decision by a Minister of the Crown in relation to subsection ( 2b ) or ( 2C ) shall be final for all purpose and may not be consider or question in any tribunal or court . " this amendment would allow review and appeal to take place only after the person have reach Rwanda ; allow video - link for an appeal make from Rwanda ; authorise the provision of any necessary medical help or quarantine on the way and if necessary after arrival in Rwanda ; and prevent the court from question decision on assistance make by Ministers . amendment 3 , page 4 , line 28 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) to ( 6 ) and insert — " ( 2e ) no order for an interim remedy under this section may be make by any tribunal or court . " amendment 21 , page 4 , line 34 , leave out from " be " to end of line 37 and insert " expressly permit to do so by this Act or by the Illegal Migration Act 2023 " this and other amendment to clause 4 be intend to remove the ability of individual to block their own removal through suspensive claim and to limit such claim to rare situation where there be bad faith on the part of decision - maker in relation to decision as to medical fitness to travel . amendment 57 , page 5 , line 1 , at end insert — " ' compelling evidence ' may not include foreseeable risk of any kind of harm to a person if that person have — ( i ) participate or engage in any activity , or make any communication contain serious allegation , which have lead directly to bring into question the safety of the Republic of Rwanda in the particular individual circumstance of that person , or ( ii ) collude or conspire with any other person who have participate or engage in any activity , or in any communication contain serious allegation , which could lead to bring into question the safety of the Republic of Rwanda in the particular individual circumstance of that person . " this amendment would prevent the Secretary of State , an immigration officer or a court or tribunal consider a claim that Rwanda be not a safe country for the particular individual circumstance of a person if that person have deliberately try to put themselves in jeopardy if they be remove to Rwanda . amendment 22 , page 5 , line 7 , at end insert — " ( 8 ) the Illegal Migration Act 2023 be amend as follow . ( 9 ) in section 8 at the end insert — ' ( 18 ) in relation to notice under subsection ( 2 ) which specify Rwanda as the country of destination — ( a ) paragraph 2 ( b ) do not apply , and ( b ) subsection ( 3 ) to ( 7 ) do not apply . ' ( 10 ) after section 8 insert — ' 8A Finality of decision ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) apply in relation to person name in notice as describe in subsection 8 ( 18 ) , and all matter , decision , or conclusion reach in relation to their selection , processing , detention , and removal . ( 2 ) these matter , decision , and conclusion be final , and not liable to be question or set aside in any court or tribunal . ( 3 ) in particular — ( a ) the decision maker be not to be regard as have exceed its power by reason of any error make in reach the decision ; ( b ) the supervisory jurisdiction do not extend to , and no application or petition for judicial review may be make or bring in relation to , the decision . ( 4 ) subsection ( 5 ) apply only in relation to decision as to medical fitness to travel to Rwanda . ( 5 ) subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) do not apply so far as the decision involve or give rise to any question as to whether the decision maker be act or have act in bad faith . ( 6 ) the court of supervisory jurisdiction be not to entertain any application or petition for judicial review in respect of a decision relate to a removal or propose removal to Rwanda that it would not entertain ( whether as a matter of law or discretion ) in the absence of this section . ( 7 ) in this section — " bad faith " mean dishonesty or personal malice , and do not include unreasonableness or action take which be inconsistent with international law ; " decision " include any purport decision ; " first - instance decision " mean the decision in relation to which permission ( or leave ) to appeal be be seek ; " the supervisory jurisdiction " mean the supervisory jurisdiction of — ( a ) the High Court in England and Wales or Northern Ireland , or ( b ) the Court of Session , in Scotland , and " the court of supervisory jurisdiction " be to be read accordingly . ' ( 11 ) after the cross - head ' entry , settlement and citizenship ' , insert — ' 29a Exclusion of certain provision relate to entry , settlement and citizenship Sections 30 to 37 , and the other legislation therein mention or refer to , shall not apply if they have the effect of prevent or delay any removal notify under this Act to Rwanda . ' ( 12 ) after the cross - head ' legal proceeding ' insert — ' 37a exclusion of certain provision relate to legal proceeding ( 1 ) subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) apply in relation to person name in notice as describe in subsection 8 ( 18 ) . ( 2 ) Suspensive claim , as define in section 38 , be not available in relation to such person . ( 3 ) where suspensive claim ( include any appeal ) have be commence prior to the giving of notice , such claim and any pending appeal be null and void and shall not prevent removal or have any other legal effect . ' " this amendment limit the ability of court to review , and restrict suspensive claim that may be make , in relation to the decision to remove a person to Rwanda . clause 4 stand part . new clause 6 — change to the classification of Rwanda as safe — " ( 1 ) a Monitoring Committee oversee removal to Rwanda must be establish and maintain in accordance with article 15 of the Rwanda Treaty . ( 2 ) section 2 ( 1 ) of this Act do not apply if — ( a ) the Monitoring Committee establish under subsection ( 1 ) have formally conclude that the Republic of Rwanda be in breach of its obligation under that Treaty , ( b ) the Secretary of State have advise against travel to the Republic of Rwanda , or ( c ) if a court or tribunal have find the Republic of Rwanda to be unsafe in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) below . ( 3 ) on an application for judicial review , if a UK Senior Court determine that credible evidence exist that the Republic of Rwanda be no long safe on the basis of non - compliance with its obligation under the Rwanda Treaty , nothing in this Act shall prevent a court or tribunal from far consider an application for judicial review bring by an individual so affected . " this new clause place the Monitoring Committee for the Rwanda Treaty on a statutory basis , and place condition on when the classification of Rwanda as ' safe ' can be suspend in accordance with material condition and / or non - compliance with obligation under the Rwanda Treaty . Amendment 28 , in clause 9 , page 6 , line 38 , after " Act " insert " except section 2 " . this be a pave amendment for Amendments 29 and 30 . amendment 29 , page 6 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the Secretary of State may by order make by statutory instrument bring section 2 into force . " this Amendment make the commencement of clause 2 ( safety of the Republic of Rwanda ) subject to a commencement order . amendment 30 , page 6 , line 39 , at end insert — " ( 1b ) the Secretary of State may not make an order under subsection ( 1A ) before — ( a ) at least 30 day have elapse since the Rwanda Treaty enter into force , and only if ( b ) the Secretary of State be satisfied with the extent of the implementation by Rwanda of its domestic obligation under the Rwanda Treaty since the Treaty enter into force . " this Amendment make the commencement order for clause 2 ( safety of the Republic of Rwanda ) contingent on the Secretary of State be satisfied with the implementation by Rwanda of its domestic obligation under the new Treaty . the SNP have bring forward these amendment to this appalling Bill not because we really believe that there be improvement that can be make to it , but because that be the limitation of the process we have in front of we this afternoon . the Bill be irredeemably awful in each and every provision and clause , and in the intent behind it . and it will not work . like the hostile environment that come before , the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 and the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which get Royal Assent only 180 day ago , it will fail to reach its objective because it fail to engage with reality . the more I hear from member on the Government Benches on the issue , and from the many Home Office Ministers who have come and go , I can only feel that they just do not understand why people seek sanctuary on our shore . they be astonishing in their ignorance and baffle in the lack of effort they put into understanding . one reason people come to the UK be its — now clearly defunct — reputation for fairness and the rule of law , which the Bill comprehensively shred . the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants have highlight the impact that all of that have have on the people it deal with , and tell I about a kurdish client who flee Iran under a death sentence from the iranian Government . on arrive in the UK , he be issue with a removal notice to Rwanda . he say : " the reason I come to England be that I know I will be safe in the UK , and also , I be trap by the smuggler … when I receive the news " — that he would be send to Rwanda — " it feel like death again to I . " he be relieve by the Supreme Court ruling because he think he would be safe , but now he have have the rug pull from underneath he yet again . on a point of order , Madam Chairman . the hon . Lady ' s speech seem more appropriate for second Reading . it would be helpful if she could direct her attention to the amendment , about which we be interested to hear what she have to say . it be actually amendment and clause stand part , so that give a wide scope than perhaps the right hon . Gentleman realise . I be glad the right hon . Gentleman have have your advice , Dame Rosie , on the subject of the debate . to put the issue into context , every single week I sit in front of people at my advice surgery and listen patiently to the story of the constituent who come to see I . I have read their Home Office statement : they have be through trauma , make perilous journey at unimaginable cost , be torture and bear the scar , both physical and mental . they have see their relative murder , run rather than be forcibly recruit into an army that would kill and rape their love one , and be victim of trafficking and slavery . they have be unable to hide their view or their identity from those who would persecute they , and see the stable life they have build crumble before their eye . they never plan to be sit on a random Friday morning in a community centre in Glasgow , in tear , before a Member of some other country ' s Parliament . they do not understand why this UK Government treat they so poorly , disbelieve they , force they to wait , prevent they from work and keep they apart from the only love one they have leave . I can not comprehend it either . on that point , will the hon . Lady give way ? I will if the hon . Gentleman can tell I why the Government treat people so cruelly , I will . I have be listen with interest to the compassion that the hon . Lady be express , but could she tell I how many illegal asylum seeker per head of population Scotland be accommodate , and how many illegal asylum seeker per head of population England be accommodate ? the hon . Gentleman should inform himself , because there be no such thing as an illegal asylum seeker in the first place . rise — the hon . Gentleman can sit down ; he have make his point . fellow human being , from Afghanistan , Syria , Yemen , Libya , Iran , Iraq , Ethiopia , Eritrea , Sudan , China , the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Cameroon , Tamils from Sri Lanka , Ahmadiyyas from Pakistan — all of those and more — have give I just the tiny of insight into their life . it be a privilege to know they and to help they as much as I can as their MP . Glasgow be home to many different nationality and it give I great pleasure to attend community event and celebrate the diversity that enrich we : to learn to dance the attan sway and to teach Afghan Scots to do the Gay Gordons and Dashing White Sergeant in return ; to sing , very badly , alongside the wonderful Maryhill Integration Network Joyous Choir ; to share the most delicious food with AfricAlba and Africa Future ; or to play football , as badly as I sing , in the refugee football tournament that be hold every year in Scotland , organise by Councillor Abdul Bostani . on a point of order , Dame Rosie . I do not want to try your patience , but clause 2 be about the safety of Rwanda and what the hon . Lady be say have nothing to do with that at all . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order . please can he leave it with I ? it be rather discourteous to keep disrupt the debate . I assure he that I will keep a close eye on proceeding . if the hon . Lady veer off track , I will make sure she get back on track , but can we not have the debate disrupt constantly like this ? perhaps the right hon . Gentleman would like to come along to listen to Olivia Ndoti and the woman at the Women ' s Integration Network in Glasgow . perhaps he will hear from people from Rwanda — this Government grant asylum to people from Rwanda , because their country be not safe . I do not believe that anyone who support this awful Bill can do so know the people it will affect . it be lay out in such cruel term that they would remove the right of our fellow human being simply for seek sanctuary and safety . it undermine our obligation under international law and deny the need for individualised protection , which be guarantee under the anti - traffic convention . that this Government seek to declare a country safe by legislate for it to be so be an absolute affront . amendment 48 simply seek to change " safe " to " unsafe " . for every decision maker to be force to declare any country safe — regardless of the fact in front of they , regardless of their own knowledge and regardless of circumstance — fly in the face of the justice and the right that the UK be suppose to stand for . it be illogical . Amnesty have call this " treat fact as false " . amendment 45 , as the hon . Lady have just say , would permanently designate Rwanda an unsafe country . she have just complain about decision maker have to designate it the other way . therefore , first , what be the difference ? secondly , be that not offensive to Rwanda ? thirdly , be that not worry to the 100 - plus refugee from Libya whom the UN recently settle in Rwanda ? under what circumstance would she then agree to legislation that recognise Rwanda again as a safe country ? I believe that it be fundamentally unwise to recognise country as safe in perpetuity , because thing be unsafe . this amendment highlight the illogicality of this Bill . these thing should not be legislate on at all . the hon . Gentleman mention the Libyans who be be transit through Rwanda . they be not settle in Rwanda ; they be be transit through Rwanda to other country such as Canada . rise — I wish to make some progress . the hon . Gentleman will be able to contribute later on . I wish to touch on what the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees have say about this . it have review the update UK - Rwanda scheme and it say : " it maintain its position that the arrangement , as now articulate in the UK - Rwanda Partnership Treaty and accompany legislative scheme , do not meet the require standard relate to the legality and appropriateness of the transfer of asylum seeker and be not compatible " — it be not compatible — " with international refugee law . " equally , this Bill do not have any kind of sunset clause , or a set of circumstance by which it can acknowledge a change in the situation in Rwanda . that be foolhardy , and it be bad legislation . the clause that talk about mere monitoring of the situation do not go far enough . that be a prime example of the incompetence of this legislation and how it can not really be make to work . there have be ongoing tension , for example , with the neighbour Democratic Republic of the Congo , where recently re - elect President Tshisekedi have be quote as say in relation to Rwandan - back M23 rebel : " if you re - elect I and Rwanda persist … I will request the Parliament and Congress to authorise a declaration of war . we will march on Kigali . tell Kagame those day of playing game with congolese leader be over . " I ask Conservative Members what would happen to their precious treaty and to this legislation should such a situation escalate . none of we want to see that , but it could happen . more importantly , what would happen in the interim to anybody the Home Secretary have send to this unsafe situation in Rwanda ? they would not be able to bring they back . that person would be stick in a situation of conflict . it be beyond I how Conservative Members , include former Ministers and member of the legal profession , can sign up to amendment shred the rule of law and human right . our amendment 46 to 50 be , at the very minimum , an attempt to reinstate the power of our court and tribunal to do their work . they be the people qualified to make these decision , and they do so for the most part with great diligence . their service be stretch and there be much more that could be improve be the UK Government not chuck away hundred of million of pound on distraction such as this legislation that they bring here today . the Government have recently publish their consultation response on safe and legal route , follow the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , and it offer nothing . it offer no change whatsoever — no new safe and legal route that would help to resolve the situation . the Refugee Council have present a credible alternative , and the Minister could not be less interested . I honestly do not know what to say about the amendment of the former Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , and his cabal . it sicken I that they would treat people in this way . surely the only way in their mind that they can justify treat asylum seeker in this way be if they consider they to be less . if they do not matter , they can therefore be ship off as if they be some kind of inconvenient waste . this be stir up fear and hatred of people who only come here to ask for our protection . these be real life ; it be not some political game . I say to Conservative Members who be focus on this Tory psychodrama that this be about real people and real people ' s life . we on the SNP Benches see they as human , just like we . shame on all those member . I would like to have see much more from the Labour party in oppose this vile legislation . Labour Members concern themselves today simply with the risk of refoulement , not the tawdry practice of offshore asylum seeker . labour ' s new clause 6 merely seek to monitor the shoddy deal , not to dismantle it . last week , they would not be clear whether it be the principle of Rwanda or just the cost that they find problematic . I ask the shadow Minister , would he revoke this legislation ? we be see court be overrule and people be treat as if they be less than human — as if they be not entitle to the right that we all expect . these be dark day . this be not normal and nor should it become so . we on the SNP Benches will fight this rotten Bill all the way — today , tomorrow , and any opportunity that we get . not in our name . I rise to speak in favour of the amendment in my name and that of my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) . a single question — at least on the conservative Benches — hang over this debate : what work ? it do not matter whether this be the most robust piece of immigration legislation that we have ever consider . that be not relevant . it do not matter whether this be a suitable compromise between this faction or that . that might be a noble aim , but it be not what we be here to do on behalf of our constituent today . what matter be whether this scheme work . why do that matter ? it matter because illegal migration be do untold damage to our country . it be cost we billion of pound . it be exploit ten of thousand of people . it be leave a trail of human misery across Europe , north Africa and beyond . People be drown in the english channel and will continue to do so month after month . we must fix this problem . we in this House have the power to do so , and the responsibility be on our shoulder . the question be : be we willing to do it . the current Bill do not work . the test of whether it work be not whether we can get a few symbolic flight off in the month ahead , with a small number of illegal migrant on they . the test be whether we can create the kind of sustainable deterrent that we set out to achieve — the sustainable deterrent that my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) set out to achieve when she secure this groundbreaking deal with Rwanda . it be the kind of deterrent that protect not just this country for generation to come from the scourge of illegal migration , but the whole continent of Europe . I can tell all right hon . and hon . member that , have speak to almost every Interior Minister and Immigration Minister not just in Europe , but in Egypt , Tunisia , Morocco and Turkey , they all ask , " when will you get this policy up and run ? will it work ? " and they want it to work . they know that if we can create a sustainable deterrent , we will stop people come , we will secure Europe ' s border and we will save life . in an age of mass migration , this be one of the most important challenge that we face . I completely agree with the right hon . Gentleman about one thing : this Bill will not work . I do not think it will work if it include the amendment that he have table , either . that be because he and I have come to a completely different position on the nature of the deterrence and whether it would work at all . it seem to I self - evident that there must be an enormous deterrent if you have to get in a tiny boat , risk your life as a pregnant woman with child beside you , have pay thousand of pound to a vile , despicable people trafficker . what evidence do he have that this plan , this gimmick , be any more of a deterrent than that ? if the hon . Gentleman be right , hundred of thousand of people would not be make that very journey every year . million of people in the world want to make that journey . there be thousand of people in France seek to pay people smuggler to come to our country . the only way we will stop that be if we break the people smuggler ’ business model once and for all , so that it be clear beyond doubt that if people come to this country , they will be detain and swiftly remove to Rwanda or another safe country . where the hon . Gentleman be wrong be that he , like those on the Labour Front Bench , believe completely erroneously that we can arrest our way out of this problem . the National Crime Agency do not support they in that contention , and I have not see any evidence that that will work . nobody who have look into this problem believe that the fungible and complex gang that stretch across Europe and beyond , which import boat for next to nothing from China , Bulgaria and Turkey , can just be arrest out of existence . everyone say the same thing : " create a deterrent . " that be what the Rwanda policy do . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way again to the hon . Gentleman . let I move forward and speak more directly to our amendment , because that be the purpose of today . the amendment table in my name and that of my hon . friend the Member for Stone be in four group , two of which will be discuss today and two tomorrow . they seek to address the evident flaw of the Bill , and they represent the last opportunity for we to get this policy right . I shall speak directly to mine , and my hon . friend can speak to the one that he lead on . mine speak to individual claim . this be a point I have make time and again . all my experience at the Home Office teach I that every single illegal migrant who come to this country will try every possible way to avoid be remove . we know that ; that be what they do today . it be human nature that people would do that . we have to legislate for human nature , not against it . every legal representative and lefty lawyer will try everything they can to support those claim . we see it every time , and experience teach we that . the Bill improve the situation ; it make it tight , but in respect of only the general safety of Rwanda , not an individual ' s circumstance . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way to the hon . Lady in a moment . as night follow day , every migrant will say , " Rwanda may be generally safe " — I believe that it be — " but it be not safe for I . " that be one of the central intellectual incoherence , as the Government ' s own lawyer have say , at the heart of the Bill . it envisage that Rwanda be generally safe but , for a range of unspecified reason , foresee that it will not be safe for other . of course , as we have see in the past , one person will mount a successful challenge , and that will create a precedent . every legal representative and non - governmental organisation like Care4Calais will then school everyone to make exactly the same challenge and , time and again , we will lose those case in the court . the Bill , in that respect , be legally flawed , but it be also operationally flawed because of that . let I explain to those who be , understandably , not as well verse as those of we who have be Ministers in this field : we have only 2 , 000 detain space in our immigration removal centre in this country . on a single day in August , 1 , 200 arrive illegally on our shore , so in a weekend , all the detain capacity in the whole United Kingdom would be consume . when hon . member be consider whether the Bill work , they should see it through that lens . we have to get people out of the country within day , not month , and the operational plan behind the Bill foresee that it will take month for people to be remove from the country . what will happen be our detain capacity will be fill , and people will be bail to hotel . they will then abscond and never be see again . within a single week in August , this scheme will have fail . that matter for the country and , of course , for the Government . it matter for trust in politic and Westminster , because we will have tell people that it be go to work , know that it would not work . it also matter for all those other european country that want the scheme to succeed in protect our border . my right hon . friend make a good case for deterrent but , I fear , a bad case for his amendment . as the Home Affairs Committee find out , when the Rwanda scheme be announce , a big surge of people in Calais try to regularise their status in France because they do not want to risk be send to Rwanda , so deterrent do work . he have just say that this be the last opportunity to get this right . do he not acknowledge that there be a large chance that his amendment would make the Bill unworkable , not least in the eye of the Rwandan Government ? in that case , there would be no deterrent , so what be the alternative ? let I address that question head - on . I have know my hon . friend for a long time — he be not bear yesterday . that argument be not a plausible one , in my opinion . the argument that the Rwandan Government would walk away from the scheme be raise not just at the eleventh hour , but at one minute to midnight . it be predicate on the belief that the Government of Rwanda would walk away from a scheme on the ground that it might conceivably fall foul of the european convention on human right , which Rwanda be not a party to , when the only reason we would fall foul of the convention would be conduct in Rwanda itself . I do not find that a plausible argument . if that be the correct response , why then pilot a Bill through Parliament where the very front page say that the Government can not attest to the Bill ' s compliance with international law ? why would the Prime Minister say that he be willing to ignore foreign judge when his own legal advice say that that be in breach of international law ? why would we pursue a policy that the UNHCR say yesterday be , in its opinion , in breach of international law ? that be not a plausible argument from the Government . it be unwise of the Government to solicit that press release from the Government of Rwanda . I do not think that we should cast blame on the Government of Rwanda , because they be honourable people who want this scheme to work , and I have the high opinion of our interlocutor in Rwanda . it be for that reason that I want to do what we say we would do when my right hon . friend the Member for Witham create the scheme , which be to work with they in good faith to get the job do . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will not give way at the moment ; let I make some more progress on explain the amendment , if I may . the way that flight will work when the scheme commence be not under the Illegal Migration Act 2023 at all . the first several month of flight will involve a group of individual whom my right hon . friend the Member for Witham and her official at the time select when the Rwanda policy be first devise . those individual have be in the United Kingdom for year . we have lose contact with many of they and none of they can be subject to the protection in that Act . even if hon . member believe that the serious and irreversible harm test within that Act be a very strict one — I will come to that in a moment — that will not apply to the flight that will go off in the month ahead . it might not apply to any flight that go off before the next general election . if we want those flight to be full of illegal migrant and for there to be a deterrent effect , hon . member need to support the amendment I have set out , which create that strict approach . will the right hon . member give way ? will the right hon . member give way ? I will give way in a moment . when we come to those individual who be subject to the stricture of the Illegal Migration Act , the Government ' s contention be that the serious and irreversible harm test be a very high one . I do not think that be right . the Supreme Court ' s judgment lower the bar . the reveal preference of the judiciary be to be generous towards illegal migrant and to make the scheme difficult to operationalise . as this be the last legislative opportunity for we to tackle the issue , I suggest we get it right and narrow the opportunity for the judiciary to intervene , or else we be go to find that these flight be symbolic flight , with very few individual on they at all . I want to touch on something the right hon . Gentleman say early about whether the Bill will work at all . he have often go on the record talk about the Albania scheme , which have be very successful : there be 90 % few Albanians come across . in the year to September last year , 2 , 749 illegal migrant be return to Albania . they do not require the amendment . the law that we currently have allow they to be return , and I do not remember hear about any appeal from those people . on that basis , and give that this Bill be strict than what we currently have , why will it not work , if the Albania scheme already work ? I have hear that argument advance before , and of course I be proud of what we have achieve with the Albania scheme , but that be to judge two quite different proposition . the Albania scheme take somebody who be in the United Kingdom and ask they to return to their home country , which be a european , highly developed country . that be a very different proposition from enforce somebody ' s removal from the United Kingdom to a third country to which they do not wish to go . also , as the hon . Gentleman may know , very few small boat arrival have be remove to Albania . almost all those individual who have go to Albania have be time - serve foreign national offender in our prison , individual who have voluntarily choose to return to Albania and those who have be in the United Kingdom for a long time . the success of the scheme rest on take people off small boat , detain they for very short period of time and then remove they swiftly to Rwanda . for the reason I have set out , I think that be extremely unlikely to succeed at any scale in the way the Bill be currently structure . I just point out to the right hon . Gentleman that people arrive in small boat because legal route have be block . when it come to his amendment in particular , clause 4 of this disgusting Bill already provide a very limited route for individual to challenge their removal to Rwanda base on their individual circumstance , yet my understanding be that he be seek to go even far to override individual legal protection — even decision that contain error would not be open to challenge under his amendment 22 , as I understand it . how on earth be that fair , just or justifiable ? on the hon . Lady ' s first point , we have have this argument many time before , and she be completely wrong . this country be one of the world ' s most generous country in support those in need around the world . since 2015 we have issue more than half a million visa on humanitarian ground , more than at any time in our history . on her point about my amendment , it be not correct to say that we would not enable people to challenge on their individual circumstance ; they could , but those challenge could not be suspensive . individual would arrive in the UK and within day — which be critical to the success of the scheme — they would be remove to Rwanda . there they could bring forward claim as they might wish , but it would not block the flight , and that be critical . without that , the scheme will simply not succeed . rise — I will not give way to the hon . Gentleman . the amendment also say there very narrow ground on which individual will not be put on flight , ground that the Home Office be very used to deal with through fitness to travel requirement . that be a concept that be well know and understand and I be certain it would work . what do the amendment do that be different ? it narrow down the reason for which individual could make claim and make the scheme legally and operationally workable for the first time . we have try to be constructive in table amendment . the Prime Minister set a test for I , and for anyone who share my determination to tackle this issue , as follow : that he would accept any amendment , whether or not it strengthen the Bill , if there be respectable legal argument in international law in their favour . we can argue about whether that test be the right one . personally , I feel very strongly that there be time when contest notion of international law should not surpass either parliamentary sovereignty or , above all , the interest of our constituent , and border security and national security be the prime responsibility of any Government . but that be the test , and we have meet the test . we instruct a very eminent lawyer , John Larkin KC , former Attorney General of Northern Ireland , to provide we with an opinion . the opinion say that each and every one of the amendment in my name and that of my hon . friend the Member for Stone be compliant with international law . unless the goalpost have be shift by the Government , I see no reason why the Prime Minister and the Minister could not accept the amendment and enable we to strengthen this Bill once and for all . in conclusion , at the outset I say there be one question hang over this debate : what work ? however , there be a further question : how much be we willing to do to stop the boat ? how willing be we to take on the vested interest , balance the trade - off and take the robust step that will actually work ? the only country in the world that have fix this problem , latterly Australia and Greece , have be willing to take the most robust action . be we ? I be . I want to stop the boat and secure our border . this be a difficult issue , but we be not a parish council struggle with some kind of intractable legal problem . we be a sovereign Parliament . the power be in our hand . we have agency . the law be our servant , not our master . I urge all right hon . and hon . member to support the amendment in my name and the name of my hon . friend the Member for Stone and create a scheme that work . that be what our constituent expect of we and that be the promise that the Prime Minister have make to they and the whole country . I rise to speak in favour of amendment 35 and 37 and new clause 6 , table in my name and the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , the shadow home Secretary . I start by remind the Committee and anyone watch at home that the Labour party be oppose to this Bill in its entirety , for the simple reason that we be oppose to the Rwanda scheme in its entirety . we have be clear that we need to stop the conservative small boat chaos and we need to fix our broken asylum system , but those aim can only be achieve by way of measure that be base on common sense , hard graft and international co - operation , as oppose to headline - chasing and government by gimmick from those on the conservative Benches . the Conservatives like to accuse we of oppose everything that the Government be do to stop the Tory small boat chaos , but that be simply not the case . we on the Labour Benches fully support measure such as the deal with Albania , because that be the sort of sensible , pragmatic action that can make a tangible difference . we have repeatedly make our support for that course of action crystal clear , if only the Conservatives would care to listen . however , the Labour party will never support any proposal that be unaffordable , unworkable or unlawful . do my hon . friend agree that the Government be be extremely neglectful with the public purse by throw money at a Rwanda scheme that simply will not work ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : it be quite remarkable that a party that use to pride itself on be the party of fiscal rectitude be throw £ 400 million of taxpayer ' money at the Government of Rwanda for precisely nothing . so far , all they have get for it be that they have send three Home Secretaries to Rwanda , but not a single asylum seeker . the Rwanda plan be all of the above : it be unaffordable , it be unworkable and it be unlawful . it be unaffordable to the british taxpayer because a truly staggering £ 400 million of our taxpayer ' money be on the way to the Rwandan Government without a single asylum seeker land in Rwanda . it be unworkable because we know that the rwandan authority be capable of take less than 1 % of the 30 , 000 who cross the channel in small boat in 2023 , accord to the Court of Appeal . in order for a deterrent to be effective , it must be credible . surely even the most ardent supporter of this policy would acknowledge that such a tiny chance of be send to Rwanda will never deter someone who have risk life and limb and cross continent to escape persecution and violence . the Foreign Office recently admit that hundred of Afghans who be eligible for resettlement have not be bring into the UK . they exemplify the need for safe and legal route . be they not exactly the people who be risk life and limb because they do not have access to legal and safe route , which the Government should provide ? the hon . Lady be right . the afghan scheme be a case in point . the afghan relocation and assistance policy have more or less collapse , the afghan citizen resettlement scheme be not work at all , and which nationality be always in the top two or three that be cross on small boat ? the Afghans . it be pretty straightforward . we oppose the Rwanda policy because it be not a deterrent ; it be a distraction . it would be far well , as the shadow Home Secretary , I and other have set out many time in this Chamber , to redirect the vast quantity of taxpayer ' money be waste on the Rwanda scheme into a new cross - border police unit and a new security partnership with Europol that can smash the criminal smuggler gang upstream . my hon . friend be make an important point about how we need to co - operate much more intensively with the law enforcement agency across Europe . the brutal fact be that these gang be put people into boat that be make for river , not sea , in treacherous condition . who in their right mind would go in one of those dinghy in the english channel right now ? but people be be force to do that by the gang . we need to smash the gang , and we can do that only by work with our colleague across Europe to ensure that we bring the situation to an end . my hon . friend be absolutely right . if we accept that international co - operation with our european partner and ally must be at the heart of deal with the gang , as he so eloquently set out , the possibility of that co - operation be fundamentally undermine when our Government be flagrantly prepared to break international law , which should underpin the trust that be a prerequisite for all such co - operation . Co - operation base on joint working and intelligence - sharing with our partner and ally be possible only if Britain be deem a trustworthy partner . that bring I to the third reason for our opposition to the legislation and the amendment table by so many conservative Members . we find ourselves in the utterly extraordinary position of debate a Government policy that have be find to be unlawful by the high court in our land . amendment 35 , which I will come to shortly , reflect that very fact . we find ourselves confront by a Government who be seek to legislate for an alternate reality . although Ministers appear to believe that they can pass a Bill that determine that the sky be green and the grass be blue , that do not make it so . have it escape the hon . Gentleman ' s notice that one claim be dismiss by the Supreme Court judgment on Rwanda ? that be an iraqi in the case of ASM . the reason be very simple : the Court make it crystal clear in paragraph 144 of its judgment that the issue in question , as far as that claimant be concern , be undermine by clear and unambiguous word in an Act of Parliament . in other word , the sovereignty of Parliament prevail . of course Parliament be sovereign , and of course we in this place be send here to make law , but we must make those law with restraint ; we must make they while respect the judicial function . the separation of power be fundamental to our identity as a liberal democracy , so although the hon . Gentleman very often talk about the sovereignty of Parliament , it be vital that his comment be always found on the principle of separation of power and the check and balance that it give we . just to tease out a little more labour policy on the specific issue that the hon . Gentleman refer to , be he rule out any consideration of this House determine to overturn the wrongful conviction of hundred of sub - postmaster simply because that would set a new precedent in the relationship between this House and the court ? well , that be an interesting one ; I do not have talk about the sub - postmaster scandal on my bingo card today . Parliament be free to legislate in any way it wish , but it have to do so in full recognition of the view of the court . I know that a number of eminent legal expert have raise concern about the Government ' s propose approach on the sub - postmaster . we have to see precisely how the detail look , and it be our duty in this Parliament to scrutinise it carefully to ensure that we be not set dangerous precedent . I would argue that there be no doubt whatsoever that the Bill before we would set a profoundly dangerous precedent because it seek to directly overturn the finding of the high court in our land , and that be a toxic approach . have the shadow Minister not see all the comment and budget line that the Government have put out state that they be co - operate extensively and fully with continental country in try to crack down on the awful trade that be lead to death in small boat ? the proof be that money be send to France to help the French with their task . there be no evidence that they be not co - operate . the co - operation with France be to be welcome . the problem be that it be too far downstream . we need far well co - operation upstream , which be about share datum and fix the issue with the database — the shadow Home Secretary and the Leader of the opposition visit Europol recently to come forward with very practical and detailed plan around get the data - sharing right . that may address the issue of the fall number of prosecution of criminal smuggler gang on this Government ' s watch and the number of return and removal fall by 50 % since 2010 . again , we go back to the point about put more energy and resource into the pragmatic and sensible thing that can actually make a difference , as oppose to be distract by this madcap Rwanda scheme . it be mark of a liberal democracy that court be independent of Parliament and the Executive . we on the Labour Benches believe passionately that that separation of power be a fundamental and immutable element of what make we proud to be british . not only be we opposed to the specific of the Bill , but we be deeply trouble by what it represent in a broad sense . over the Christmas period , the Labour Front Benchers anonymously brief the Times say that they would want to pursue an offshore processing model . be that the position of the hon . Gentleman and the shadow Home Secretary , and if so , why would they want to do something that be know to be more expensive and less effective — everyone would have to be bring back to the United Kingdom one way or another , so that would create no deterrent whatsoever — and not move forward with a scheme such as Rwanda ? I thank the former Immigration Minister for his comment . I enjoy oppose he and , on some occasion , work with he . look at the Ukraine scheme . that be an example of offshore processing : people ' s application be process in Poland before they come to our country . look at the Hong Kong scheme . there be plenty of way of do upstream and offshore processing . to coin a phrase , what matter be what work . what be absolutely clear be that it be difficult to imagine any scheme that could be more expensive than the Rwanda policy . I will now make some progress . I cite the view of the Bingham Centre for the Rule of Law and countless other legal expert , who have state that the Bill be contrary to the rule of law because it amount to a legislative usurpation of the judicial function . it be an assault on our country ' s constitutional convention , which require the legislature to respect the essence of the judicial function . moreover , there be a staggering hypocrisy at the heart of the Bill when we consider it in the context of the treaty that have be sign with Rwanda . the purpose of that treaty be to bind the Rwandan Government into respect the rule of law , and in particular the principle of non - refoulement . how on earth can Ministers hold the rwandan authority to account on these matter if they themselves be so blatantly and egregiously fail to practise what they preach ? it be a little disingenuous to liken this process to the ukrainian scheme . the only criterion for the ukrainian scheme be that a person have to be ukrainian and come from Ukraine . the hon . Gentleman have say that enforcement have go down . up to the end of November 2023 , Home Office immigration enforcement arrest 246 people for people smuggle into the UK , and there be 124 conviction . that be in addition to those arrest and conviction that have happen on the continent , so in what sense be those figure decline , as the hon . Gentleman have just claim ? there have be a 30 % drop since 2010 in conviction of criminal smuggler gang , and a 50 % drop since 2010 in removal . I would be very happy to write to the hon . gentleman with clear detail of those fact — we have the receipt . it be against that fundamentally flawed and farcical backdrop that we seek to modify the legislation that be before we today . our amendment be an attempt at damage limitation — an effort to moderate the most egregious aspect of this nonsensical and counterproductive Bill . our amendment 35 acknowledge that , in November of last year , the Supreme Court uphold the Court of Appeal judgment . it rule unanimously that the Rwanda policy be unlawful , because there be substantial ground to believe that people transfer to Rwanda could be send to country where they would face persecution or inhumane treatment if Rwanda reject their asylum claim , a practice know as refoulement . the reason for those concern relate to an issue that I first raise at this Dispatch Box back in April 2022 , when the Rwanda plan be first announce . when Israel sign its deal with Rwanda in 2013 , many of the asylum seeker who be send from Israel to Rwanda be routinely move clandestinely to Uganda , and in three case , refoulement to Eritrea via Kenya be prevent only by the UNHCR intervening . it be little wonder that the israeli Supreme Court rule the scheme unlawful in 2018 , and it be close down . in December , the Government sign a treaty with the Rwandan Government that say that refoulement be prohibit , and that anyone remove to Rwanda from the UK must be allow to stay in Rwanda . indeed , the only country to which people can be transfer from Rwanda be the UK , which under the deal must also accept some of Rwanda ' s most vulnerable refugee and offender send back from that country . that in itself tell a story . the fact that the UK Government and the Rwandan Government have agree that Britain might need to take some rwandan refugee be a stark admission that Rwanda be not a safe country for many people . indeed , since the first £ 120 million payment by the British Government to Rwanda , six Rwandans have be grant safety and refuge in the UK . then there be the tragic fact that minister be simply too afraid to address . in 2018 , 12 congolese refugee be shoot dead by rwandan police for protest against food shortage . our amendment 35 therefore permit british court and tribunal to recognise and deal with the specific risk of refoulement associate with Rwanda by remove the relevant text from clause 2 of the Bill . likewise , our amendment 37 make clear that decision maker must be able to take the risk of refoulement into consideration when process asylum claim . the Bill designate Rwanda as a safe country , and therefore make clear that " every decision - maker must conclusively treat the Republic of Rwanda " as such . it state that the Bill " do not permit a decision - maker to consider any matter , claim or complaint to the extent that it relate to the issue of whether the Republic of Rwanda will or may remove or send the person in question to another State in contravention of any of its international obligation ( include in particular its obligation under the Refugee Convention ) . " however , as the Government have previously acknowledge , the fact on the ground can change , and decision maker should therefore be able to make their own judgment base on the late court ruling . as such , we see no reason not to let decision maker do their job and make decision base on all the knowledge available to they as the situation evolve , as oppose to the frankly absurd idea that Rwanda can be define as safe in perpetuity . I turn now to our new clause 6 . the new treaty state that Rwanda be commit to address concern that be lay out in the Supreme Court judgment , include refoulement . new clause 6 would help to ensure that Rwanda can be hold accountable on its treaty commitment by place the monitoring committee for the Rwanda treaty on a statutory basis , and by place condition on when the classification of Rwanda as safe can be suspend in accordance with the material condition and / or non - compliance with obligation under the treaty . as thing stand , the Government could vary the operate principle of the monitor committee without it be possible for such change to be challenge in our domestic court . our new clause 6 therefore address that unacceptable position by place the monitoring committee on a statutory footing , make it judiciable and thus , by definition , more transparent and accountable . we see no reason why Government Members and member across this House should oppose the principle of transparency and accountability on which our new clause 6 be base , and we hope they will join we in the Aye Lobby later . turn briefly to the amendment table by Government Members , I would point out that even one of their own colleague , the right hon . member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) — the chair of the one Nation group — have describe many of those amendment as " authoritarian " and a betrayal of conservative value . he be right . the Bill in its current form be already an assault on our reputation as a country that uphold the separation of power and the rule of law , and the majority of the amendment table by Government Members would take we even far away from those basic democratic principle . let I be clear : Labour member will proudly be vote against the amendment that be be promote by Conservative Members , because the Government ' s Rwanda policy be unaffordable , unworkable and unlawful ; because the Bill be an affront to the value that we hold dear ; and because we will always stand up for the separation of power , the rule of law , and ensure that we can stand tall in the world . the hon . Gentleman be very kind to give way a second time . I have listen to he carefully , but I have not hear an answer to one of the central question of the debate . it be the Government ' s view that Rwanda be a safe country ; what be the view of the Labour party ? be Rwanda a safe country ? I think we would all be interested to know the Labour party ' s position — I know the Government of Rwanda would be interested . I thank the right hon . member for that intervention . I do not think I could have make it any clear that we believe in the rule of law and the judicial function , and when the Supreme Court of our land rule that it be not safe to send asylum seeker to Rwanda , we on the Labour Benches absolutely agree with that position . we have see some pretty bizarre stuff emanating from the Conservative Benches over the decade , but when the history book of the past 14 year be write , the Conservatives ' psychodrama over this Rwanda policy will surely take centre stage . just think of the astonishing amount of Government time that have be plough into this unaffordable and unworkable nonsense , when minister and official could have be focus on the design and delivery of the sort of sensible , practical measure that I mention early . just think of the vast amount of political capital that the Prime Minister have squander on a policy that he do not actually believe in , that his Home Secretary have privately pooh - poohed — if you will pardon the pun , Chair — and that have leave his leadership in tatter . the legislation before we be a sham , but in the interest of damage limitation , I urge member to get behind Labour ' s amendment today . of course , most crucially , I urge they to vote down this Bill on Third Reading , and get behind Labour ' s plan to deliver the security partnership and cross - border police unit that will smash the criminal gang , defeat the people smuggler , and stop the Tory boat chaos once and for all . we want the Bill to succeed . we want it to work and to do what our voter want , but at present it do not . clause 2 , as it stand , do not work , which be why I shall press my amendment 10 to a vote , support as it be by well over 60 member of Parliament . clause 2 need to be amend with clear and unambiguous word , and with a full " notwithstanding " formula , not the one currently on offer . this formula have be use throughout our legislative history , for hundred of year , but most recently it have be enact in our most important domestic constitutional legislation , without opposition — namely , in section 38 of the European Union ( Withdrawal Agreement ) Act 2020 . the sovereignty of the Crown in Parliament be democracy , and it be describe in a lead case by the great Lord Bingham , our great modern jurist , as the " bedrock of our constitution " . democracy deliver the wish of the voter who elect we through the legislation that we pass as act of Parliament , and it be this democracy for which people fight and die . nothing can be more important to their daily life , include illegal immigration , and that be why this issue be so important . however , it be also important to stress that genuine refugee be fairly protect — this country have always do that — as in the case of Afghanistan , Hong Kong and so forth . yesterday ' s YouGov poll make it clear how strongly people feel about all this . it be a legal and constitutional , and therefore also essentially political , problem . the reason why sovereignty be so fundamental be that the court recognise that they have a duty to interpret , adjudicate on and obey the law make under that parliamentary sovereignty , where legislative word be clear , express , explicit and unambiguous . therefore , the use of a comprehensive " notwithstanding " formula , as in my amendment , would ensure that we make the Bill work in line with its intended purpose , and that it would not be frustrate by claim of international law or other contrary law . the Bill in its current form will not prevent , as everyone know , far ingenious individual claim , follow by further Supreme Court decision . the recent Supreme Court judgment on 15 November 2023 , as I point out in an intervention , make my very point . it show that the word in the immigration and asylum act at that point in time be not clear and unambiguous . however , and this be vital , it seem to have escape many people ' s notice that one of the claimant — ASM , an iraqi — have his claim dismiss in that very judgment because , in the word of Lord Reed , the President of the Supreme Court himself , " in any event , the principle of legality do not permit a court to disregard an unambiguous expression of Parliament ' s intention such as that " — I say this to the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) on the Opposition Front Bench — " with which we be concern in the present case . " this be emphatically because the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 and related immigration legislation be so clear and unambiguous in that case as to require the Court to dismiss the claim of the Iraqi precisely as a matter of parliamentary sovereignty . my hon . friend be do a wonderful job , as always . do he see the recent briefing , which seem to come from the Government , that they be expect a lot of case under their law and be go to provide a lot more judge for they ? be they not tell we that this be not go to work ? I be afraid to say that do appear to be the inevitable inference to be draw from the statement that have be make . the worry be that , unless the law be completely clear and unambiguous , there be go to be more trouble , and if the Bill be to be pass with clear and unambiguous word , the Government would not need the judge that they seem to want to employ — and nor , for that matter , all the fee that the lawyer will accumulate as a result of take part in some very spurious case . as I have say , the Rwanda judgment be in line with all previous judgment by pre - eminent jurist in recent generation , such as — I mention but a few — Lord denning , Lord Reid , Lord Hoffmann , Lord Bingham and other . month ago , I send the Prime Minister a seven - page memorandum , each line of which set out breach of international law in almost every jurisdiction in the world , include even the EU itself , the United States , France and Germany , where clearly apparent breach of international law have occur without international sanction . as for the Vienna convention , what really matter be whether the internal domestic law be of fundamental importance in the national interest , and this illegal immigration law manifestly be . in the UK , we have a dualist system of law in which the sovereignty of Parliament be fundamental to our rule of law and can not be trump by international law , the opinion or convention of the Government Legal Service or — speak as a former shadow Attorney General — if this be the case , even by an Attorney General . we have a dualistic approach to these matter in which domestic law and international law be see as independent of one another . the recent Miller 1 judgment state , at paragraph 57 , that our " dualist system be a necessary corollary of parliamentary sovereignty … it exist to protect Parliament not minister . " furthermore , as Lord Hoffmann make so clear in r v . lyon in 2002 , the court will have regard to the word of the statute , not the treaty . this be because we have no write constitution define the internal status of international law within the United Kingdom . as Lord Bingham have say , international law be " complementary to the national law of individual state and in no way antagonistic to they " . international law be not supranational , unlike european law . british court can not deem a statute unconstitutional . under our constitution , it be the King in Parliament who legislate , not his Majesty ' s Government — I think they have learn that in the civil war of the 1640 . the court do not require to have regard to function of Government when interpret the law . a statute , even when arise from an international treaty , will always prevail over a rule of international law . Lord Hoffmann , in the case of r v . lyon in 2002 — I will quote what he say , as I can not improve on it — state that " it be firmly establish that international treaty do not form part of english law and that english court have no jurisdiction to interpret or apply they … it be not the treaty but the statute which form part of english law . and english court will not ( unless the statute expressly so provide ) be bind to give effect to interpretation of the treaty by an international court , even though the United Kingdom be bind by international law to do so . . . the sovereign legislator in the United Kingdom be Parliament . if Parliament have plainly lay down the law , it be the duty of the court to apply it , whether that would involve the Crown in breach of an international treaty or not . " nothing could be clear . in Bradley and Ewing ' s authoritative book " constitutional and Administrative Law " , it be clearly state that the legislative supremacy of Parliament be not limit by international law . the court may not hold an Act void on the ground that it contravene general principle of international law . indeed , the Labour Government in 1998 specifically reaffirm the sovereignty of Parliament in relation to their Human Rights Act , say that they would not seek to transfer power from future Parliaments to the court because that would confer on the judiciary a general power over the decision of Parliament and would draw the judiciary into serious conflict with Parliament . their own White Paper state of the judiciary : " there be no evidence to suggest that they desire this power , nor that the public wish they to have it . " I do wish the hon . member for Aberavon be listen to this , because it be about the Labour party , and this still apply today . indeed , under paragraph 53 of the House of Lords Constitution Committee ' s report of 18 January 2023 , the Committee accept that UK domestic law can " diverge from obligation agree by the Government under an international treaty , and ratify follow the crag " — Constitutional Reform and Governance Act — " procedure . . . and parliamentary sovereignty mean that Parliament could legislate to ensure that domestic law differ from the requirement of a treaty . " Paragraph 54 state : " Parliament have enact legislation that be not compliant with the UK ' s international obligation , the court be bind to apply that law . " paragraph 58 go on to state : " parliamentary sovereignty mean that Parliament can legislate contrary to the UK ' s obligation under international law . " there we have it . and I should add that many member of that Committee , such as Lord Falconer of Thoroton , be certainly not conservative or Brexiteers . so there we be — we be all agree . in our unique unwritten constitution , our sovereignty patently prevail over international law , which be , for example , in contrast with that of Germany . what happen there ? article 25 of its write constitution , which I have take from an establish work on public international law , state as follow — these be the word of the very constitution in Germany : " the general rule of public international law be an integral part of federal law . they shall take precedence over the law , and shall directly create right and duty for the inhabitant of the federal territory . " similar provision apply under the dutch constitution , in article 65 and 66 . that tell we that there be a dualist system , and some country take a view that be different from our . we just happen to be on the right side of the fence . similar provision may be apply by specialist international lawyer , and they may seek to make out that international law in this country prevail over clearly explicit word in act of Parliament and parliamentary sovereignty . but no House of Lords or Supreme Court case support that proposition . I be very much enjoy my hon . friend ' s speech , as always . he give the example of Germany , which for obvious historical reason have import principle of international law into its own domestic constitutional law . for example , the German Supreme Court , the Federal Constitutional Court , still reserve its right to be the final arbiter of whether , for example , European Union law be compatible with german basic law . I be extremely glad that my hon . friend have make that point , because I have the disobliging necessity to read some of the Supreme Court judgment from Germany . sometimes — believe I — they run to nearly 1 , 000 page , for the simple reason that they be struggle to find something that will support the german people , compare with some of the rule of law that be apply more generally on an international footing , which cause they so much trouble . as I have say — my hon . friend have just make my point for I — the European Union be in a complete mess on the issue of illegal migration , and we be well out of it . it still have the charter of fundamental right , which we exclude in our withdrawal agreement , and legal change to its immigration law , all of which will require hotly contest constitutional change and referenda in its member state . it be go to be bedevil by referenda and constitutional change , and I fear it will not succeed . very many be up in arm about compulsory quota and fine for non - compliance be impose on they under the new pact on migration and asylum , which be pass by majority vote . it be noteworthy that recently the french Government defy ruling of the Strasbourg Court regard the deportation of an uzbek national , but they can not apparently trace he as order by their own Supreme Court — [ interruption . ] in reply to the barracking I be receive , I simply point out that the relevance of this be that we be talk about our constitution , which can solve the problem , and about theirs , which can not . my hon . friend be make a compelling argument about the difference between this country and those abroad who fail to take back control when we do . he will know that constitutionalist from Dicey to den , and from Lord Woolf to Lord Sumption , agree with he that this place be supreme . the supremacy of Parliament be at stake as we debate his amendment and the Bill . I have to say , with all humility , that it be not so much that I agree with they , or that they agree with I , but that this be the law of our land . this be the rule of law as it apply to the United Kingdom , and it be a tribute to the british people that they take that decision in 2016 . as I say to the Prime Minister in December ' s Liaison Committee , he can be a world leader on the issue of illegal migration , not only in the EU , but also in the United States , Canada and Australia — every country in the world . the international refugee convention , among other convention , be see as require reform . in Europe , it be clear that they need to change the european convention on human right as well as EU immigration law , and European Union voter be vote with their foot . neither the Bill , nor the amendment , be in breach of the current refugee convention , as that convention do not prohibit state from outsource asylum claim and settlement to a third country . similarly , the european convention do not prescribe how its right and freedom be to be secure . moreover , there have be " a fundamental change of circumstance " in the increase of illegal migration , criminality , and the death that those have incur since the convention be create . it be clear that currently describe " obligation " must take account of that change . we have to keep up with the time , and mass immigration be one of the main issue before all nation . what be more important : pass a Bill that work and be consistent with the democratic will of the people , our national interest , constitutional arrangement and parliamentary sovereignty , or support the uncertainty and vagary of international law ? far from diminish our international reputation , we now have the opportunity to enhance it by demonstrate that we can deal with illegal migration by make this Bill work through our own parliamentary sovereignty . and we can bring an end to the death in the channel . it have also be suggest that it be improper and contrary to the ministerial code to bring in a Bill that be inconsistent with international law — that seem to permeate the legal establishment of this country . that be nonsense on stilt , because any Member of Parliament , any unimportant Member of Parliament , as well as Ministers and any Back Bencher , can propose legislation . indeed , private Member ' s Bills be enact frequently , such as my International Development ( Gender Equality ) Act 2014 . the acceptance by Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton when he be Prime Minister , despite resistance from the legal establishment at the time that we could refuse prisoner voting , as insist on by the Strasbourg Court , be well know and remember . the former Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State for Justice , the right hon . Lord Clarke of Nottingham KC , say , when we refuse to accept the " international obligation " under the European Court of Human Rights to allow prisoner to vote in election , that — sorry , I mustn ' t laugh — " prisoner voting be a particular political issue " . what about illegal migration ? the 2023 House of Lords report make much of the ministerial code and the civil service code , state : " while Parliament be ultimately responsible for the form of any legislation pass , the preparation and introduction of Government legislation be an executive action for which Ministers , collectively , be accountable . " it then go on to reaffirm its " disquiet about the constitutional desirability of Parliament legislate in violation of the UK ' s international obligation " but it ignore the principle of parliamentary sovereignty where word use in act of Parliament be clear and unambiguous . moreover , the ministerial code be a convention , not legislation . once upon a time , the ministerial code do include the word , " an overarching duty on Ministers to comply with the law include international law and treaty obligation " , but those word be expressly remove from the code in 2015 by the then Prime Minister . the current 2022 ministerial code , under the present Prime Minister , simply refer to " the law " . this be no accident . the Government have decline the Lords ' obligation to bring back the word " international law and treaty obligation " , and I would say quod erat demonstrandum . the House of Lords Committee also suggest , in reference upon the Court of Appeal case of r ( on the application of Gulf Centre for Human Rights ) v . the Prime Minister and another in 2018 and a statement five year ago by the distinguished Lord Faulks KC , that the ministerial code still require compliance with international law obligation . however , the Court of Appeal — sadly for it — do not deal with the issue of parliamentary sovereignty with the use of the word that be clear and unambiguous and that in any case do not concern an Act of Parliament . the failure to pass a Bill to effectively deal with illegal migration have lead to vast public expenditure , with billion on service , include healthcare , education , social care , housing , infrastructure and planning to name just a few , not to mention million and million on hotel bill . that be why people be so cross , as well as the fact of illegal migration . there be no reason whatever that this Bill should not expressly and clearly exclude international law for the reason I have give . it be an affront to Parliament and to the court to suggest otherwise . I therefore ask that my amendment be vote upon and pass by the Committee . I strongly urge the Government to note the sheer anger and frustration demonstrate in opinion poll and public concern that we get this Bill right and make it work . if not , this anger will continue up to and include the general election . would it not be wise for the Government to reflect on the position and see that it would be well and wise to come forward with their own amendment and use our majority , in line with our manifesto , as grant to we by the general election in 2019 ? that would be in the national interest and for the sake of all Conservative Members of Parliament whose seat would be so at risk if we do not do that . I start by raise my concern with the Government about use a Committee of the whole House for this part of the scrutiny of the Bill . we have this with the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . in that case , there be hundred of amendment and the Minister just get to speak at the end for a short time . when we be debate and scrutinise such Bills , we need to do so line by line , and we need to debate and hear the argument from the Minister and the argument from the proposer of amendment . the process we be go through do not allow Parliament to conduct that effective scrutiny that we all want to see when pass law in this place . turn to the Bill , when the Home Affairs Committee publish our report on channel crossing 18 month ago , we be clear about the potential problem pose by the Rwanda scheme . as I have highlight on several occasion in this Chamber , we say that the small boat crossing be an issue on which " no magical single solution " be possible and that : " detailed , evidence - drive , fully cost and fully test policy initiative be by far most likely to achieve sustainable incremental change " . we warn that the Government risk " undermine its own ambition and the UK ' s international standing if it can not demonstrate " that the scheme be " compatible with international law and convention . " we say that aspect of the scheme carry " significant reputational risk for the UK " . the amendment we be debate today contain provision that be incompatible not only with the UK ' s obligation under international law , but with basic principle of liberty and freedom under common law . the amendment ' implication be therefore profound and affect every single one of we . despite what the former Immigration Minister , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) say , I take in all sincerity the Rwandan Government ' s view on the importance of uphold legal obligation . we can conclude that some of the amendment would prove fatal to the implementation of the Bill . indeed , yesterday , the UN Refugee Agency declare that the Rwanda treaty and this unamended Bill be " not compatible with international refugee law . " I will speak to amendment 2 , 3 , 10 , 56 and 57 and then focus my comment on amendment 19 to 22 . amendment 2 and 3 would prevent any claim base on risk derive from individual circumstance be consider until the person in question have arrive in Rwanda . that would effectively exclude the very narrow possibility for suspensive claim that the Bill currently allow , and it could result in the person be expose to the risk on which their claim be base — include claim base on fear of persecution and torture — before it be even consider . the european convention on human right require " independent and rigorous scrutiny of a claim that there exist substantial ground for fear a real risk of treatment contrary to article 3 " . it also require that the person concern should have access to a remedy with automatic suspensive effect . the amendment would therefore be inconsistent with that requirement of the ECHR . amendment 10 would extend the notwithstanding provision to apply to all the Bill and the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . it would effectively prevent a claimant rely on any pre - exist legal protection to prevent or delay their removal to Rwanda . the amendment would expressly allow removal to Rwanda , despite that removal otherwise breach domestic law and despite that removal be in breach of international law . that include fundamental human right from which we know no exception or derogation be permit , such as the prohibition on torture . needless to say , the amendment be not compatible with the UK ' s obligation under international law and risk undermine our international standing . amendment 56 and 57 would provide that court and tribunal would not be permit to consider a claim on the ground that Rwanda be not a safe country where the claimant have engage in activity or make serious allegation that have bring into question the safety of Rwanda , or collude or conspire with other who have do the same . worryingly , the amendment appear to exclude people who have make serious allegation about the safety of Rwanda from asylum and human right protection . that would be inconsistent with right to asylum and humanitarian protection under international law and could also be inconsistent with freedom of expression as guarantee under article 10 of the echr . amendment 19 to 22 have profound implication for we all . they would prevent any individual set to be remove to Rwanda from argue that they could not be send there on the basis of their own circumstance . in the inevitable absence of absolute certainty that no risk to any individual could arise in Rwanda , that would mean that legitimate claim base on a real risk of persecution and human right violation would not be hear , and that those people whose claim be unheard would be remove to face the persecution and human right violation in Rwanda on which their claim be base . that be clearly inconsistent with the refugee convention , the ECHR and the other international legal obligation cite by the Supreme Court in its recent judgment . amendment 22 would prevent the court from review not only the asylum claim of individual be send to Rwanda , but also claim for unlawful detention , for assault in the course of removal or for discriminatory treatment in the course of the removal process . to be clear , deny those claim would be inconsistent not only with human right law , but with fundamental principle of liberty and freedom under our common law that have be protect for century , include by the writ of habeas corpus . all member who do not want to see habeas corpus sacrifice today can surely not support these amendment . finally , I add my support to amendment that would make sensible and logical revision . amendment 1 would require the Secretary of State to monitor whether Rwanda remain a safe country . new clause 6 place condition " on when the classification of Rwanda as ' safe ' can be suspend in accordance with material condition and / or non - compliance with obligation " . the right hon . Lady will know that under this Government and previous government of all political colour , many people who come here illegally have be deport from this country . when that happen , it invariably do so notwithstanding claim they make about their circumstance . sometimes , those be claim about their personal circumstance ; sometimes , those be claim about the place they be be deport to and from where they come . on the basis of her speech so far , she would deport no one . I do not know whether I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for that intervention , because that be clearly not what I be say . what I be talk about — the Home Affairs Committee be clear about this — be the rule of law , recognise the international obligation that this country have freely enter into , and do thing properly and legally . that be what I be question , because some proposal table by Conservative Members go to the heart of our common law , our belief in the right to go before a judge and our belief that if one be detain , it can not be indefinite . those be important matter that be before we today . I want to get a couple of other thing on to the record . go back to amendment 1 and new clause 6 , while the Government have determine in the Bill that it be possible to stipulate in law that Rwanda be safe — as we know , that be to the contrary of a finding of fact by the Supreme Court — it do not seem sensible for the Government to propose that that status should be fix forevermore , which would , by extension , make Rwanda the only country on Earth in which nothing can ever happen or change . as such , amendment 1 and new clause 6 have merit ; I hope the Minister will consider they . amendment 35 and 37 would allow the court to consider the risk of refoulement in decision on removal to Rwanda . give that the Supreme Court rule unanimously that the Rwanda policy be unlawful precisely because there be substantial ground to believe that refoulement could take place , those amendment also have merit . I understand from medium report that when the Minister get to his foot , he will give some undertaking about increase the number of low level judge — or , I should say , move low level judge up to the upper tribunal — to hear any appeal . that be apparently to deal with some of the concern of Government Members . the Home Affairs Committee be concern generally about the lengthy delay in court case . in particular , in one of our recent report on the investigation and prosecution of sexual offence , particularly rape , we be worried about how long it be take for those case to be hear . I be concern about the Government ' s initiative — perhaps I be prejudge what the Minister will say , but it be be report in the press — give the amount of resource and finance that will have to be put into training up 150 judge . it strike I that they seem to be use an enormous amount of political time and resource on this policy . I look forward to what the Minister have to say about increase the number of judge when we have so many other problem in other part of the court system that they have not so far be able to deal with . that conclude my remark on today ' s amendment . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . I rise to speak to amendment 28 , 29 and 30 table in my name . although they would amend clause 9 , they relate to the operation of clause 2 ; hence their selection for debate today . it be important that we focus on what clause 2 actually mean , what its effect be and what the change reality be with regard to the position in Rwanda — and , indeed , the position between the United Kingdom and Rwanda — since the decision of the Supreme Court in November and since the fact on which it base its decision , which relate to the spring and early summer of 2022 . there be no doubt that matter have move on significantly . we have not only a treaty between the United Kingdom and Rwanda , which be sign late last year , but an indication in the form of a policy document publish by the Government , and indeed further information , as to the hard and fast change that the Rwandan Government will be make to , in effect , answer the question ask of it by the Supreme Court decision . the Supreme Court decision really be not about the law ; it be about the evidence . when we look at what the Supreme Court justice decide , we see that it be very much narrow down to whether refoulement be still likely , bear in mind the position of Rwanda . the Court decide that it be , and that be the sole reason why the policy be hold to be unlawful . other ground be tender in that case , include one on retain EU law . a specific ruling of the Court be that that do not apply ; the law be clear that that part of retain EU law have fall with our departure from the EU . other aspect of the appeal be not rule on by the Court . the decision be not , for example , base on compatibility with the echr . importantly , the decision be not base on a challenge , which be uphold , to the legality of the removal of people to third country . in my view , it be neither illegal nor immoral to seek third - country assistance when it come to this unprecedented challenge . indeed , other european country either be do it or wish to do it . my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) be right to say that other country be look to what happen here and to the precedent that we might set . in set precedent , we have to tread carefully . that be why the amendment that I table be very much focused on the factual reality and the need to ensure that Rwanda do indeed carry out its policy . when we look carefully at the policy statement , we see that particular task will need to be complete , include new operational training for decision maker in Rwanda — I think the late figure show that over 100 people have now be train to implement the deal — and the need for clear standard operating procedure with regard to the reception and accommodation arrangement for asylum seeker , the safeguarding of their welfare and access to healthcare . of course , there need to be strengthen procedural oversight of the migration and economic development partnership agree in 2022 and the asylum process under it . that mean that body have to be set up — the new MEDP co - ordination unit and the MEDP monitor committee of expert . the involvement of expert be need , certainly in the early day of the decision make to be make by the new body , which will be set up by the Government of Rwanda . there will be a new appeal body that consist of panel of three judge , with subject - matter expert , include rwandan judge and judge from other Commonwealth jurisdiction . all those detail be important , because they go towards answer the question , which I think will be answer in the affirmative : that individual in the scheme will not be at risk of refoulement and , therefore , there will not be a breach of the 1951 convention . that reality have to match the deeming provision . I know that my hon . and learn Friend the Minister will be anxious to ensure that deeming provision do not either perpetuate or encourage legal fiction . this be difficult law , but it be not unprecedented . deeming provision be use often in tax legislation . the lead authority be fairly recent : Fowler v . her Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs back in 2020 in the Supreme Court , in which Lord Briggs make it clear that deeming provision create statutory fiction should be follow as far as require for the purpose for which the deeming provision be create , but the production of unjust , absurd or anomalous result will not be encourage . that be clearly somewhere that the court do not wish to tread or to encourage , and neither should we as a Government or a Parliament . we must dovetail the come into force of the deeming provision with the reality on the ground in Rwanda , so that we create not a statutory fiction but a series of fact reinforce by statute . that degree of care do not have to take age — it can be do in week , bear in mind the quick work that have be do already . that would go a long way to satisfy the natural concern that many of we have about the use of such provision . we understand why they have to be make , and we do not oppose the principle of their use , but I simply caution that we take care to make sure that we get that co - ordination right . many of we have be down the road of discuss ouster before , and it can take many form . there have be example where ouster proceeding and clause have clearly not work , and they be not the sole province of this Government . previous Labour Governments try to enact bold and sweeping ouster clause , only to find that their effort fall flat either before the Act become law or as a result of court intervention . I think of the Asylum and Immigration ( Treatment of Claimants , etc . ) Act 2004 , when Labour try to be too extensive and expansive . experience have teach we that where we have clearly define reason — and , importantly , limited exception — ouster clause will work . we have a recent example of that in the removal of the Cart jurisdiction in the Judicial Review and Courts Act 2022 , where my hon . and learn Friend the Minister finish the job that I start . in the consultation on the judicial review , my noble friend Lord Faulks and other embark upon those provision at my direction . that work — it have be test not just in the High Court but in the Court of Appeal in the Oceana case , and it be hold to be sound and watertight . why ? because there be a clear rationale behind it , and there be limited exception . Herein lie the danger pose by the otherwise well - intentione amendment by my right hon . and hon . friend : without those limited exception , we be set the Bill up to fail . that be what history have teach we . I be a strong believer that it be from this place that the core of our constitution come . it be from Parliament that our constitutional authority be derive . to contradict the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , who in many respect couch his remark well , we do not have a separation of power constitution . we have a check and balance constitution , where each part of the body politic respect each other . I do agree with he that restraint be an important principle . my right hon . and learn Friend be make a profound and important point about the nature of the separation of power . there be a lot of misunderstanding about it . the separation of power be not about equal body or each of those body perform the same role . as he describe , it be entirely a matter of the balance between those body . this House be the body that make law . Judge - make law be something he and I have debate , discuss and agree on many time , and it be invidious because , as I say early , this House be supreme when it come to make or change law . I entirely agree . my right hon . friend and I be both romantic Tories of an old school , which might surprise many member . we share that common fount of Toryism that be important to we both and , within that , we utterly respect the independence of the judiciary . it be a separate part of our constitution . to trespass upon its domain — as , sadly , in the Post Office case we have have to — be something that we do extremely reluctantly , and I hope in a very rare and unique way in that tragic and scandalous example . as my right hon . Friend say , that do not mean that we be a carbon copy of the United States — in fact , the United States constitution be base on a misunderstanding of the british constitution . it be not right to say that separation of power be the underlie principle . that fiction lead we to error when we — to my mind , regrettably — take the House of Lords Judicial Committee out of this place and pretend that somehow it be entirely separate from Parliament . if I may digress for a nanosecond , the point about the House of Lords Judicial Committee be that it be a body of Parliament make law . that be an elegant solution and response to our unwritten constitution . the same go for the office that I use to hold . what a mess the previous Labour Government make of reform to the office of Lord Chancellor , which be the embodiment of the check and balance that we have in our constitution . it be a bit of cod philosophy that be overuse and be not part of our system , but I will go on to qualify that in an important way . I want to bring my right hon . and learn Friend back to the amendment . do he agree that between the absolute conviction of the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) and the Opposition that the Bill can not ever work , and the absolute conviction of my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) that it can work only with his amendment , there be a landing space where we can deliver something that will make a difference and will act as a deterrent , without get rid of all the individual right in our domestic and international law ? that be what we should aim to achieve . my hon . friend put the point very well . there be a landing space for this policy . I disagree with her Majesty ' s loyal opposition and their leader when he say that he would not support the Rwanda policy even if it work . frankly , that be an extreme position and not one that chime at all with what the british people want , because they want solution to these problem . this party and this Government be come up with solution . they might be novel or untested , but at least we be work on it . my right hon . and learn Friend be generous in give way . with all his experience as former Justice Secretary , be it his view that the Ministry of Justice will be able to recruit hundred of tribunal judge — from where , I do not know — and use they to process and decide the claim that will surely come from each and every illegal migrant who come across the channel , in sufficient speed that we do not fill up our detain estate capacity and have to bail those individual , so that they abscond , even in the peak season of August and September ? his professional opinion would be much appreciated . I will give , if not a professional opinion , my right hon . friend an opinion bear out of experience . anything be possible , but it be quite a task . I be sure that my right hon . friend the Lord Chancellor will talk to the senior President of Tribunals , Sir Keith Lindblom , about this very issue , to make sure that not just full - time but part - time tribunal chair will be available to deal with a large number of case . but if we can do that in immigration , can we not do it in crime as well , please ? it be a timely reminder that our justice system be pretty important and , despite my good effort to increase funding — which we do do — more need to be do to ensure that the backlog be deal with . I declare my interest , and I know that my colleague at the Bar would tell I off if I do not say that . to answer my right hon . friend ' s point , it will be a challenge and will require probably some change to practice direction , and case will have to be deal with much more quickly than the status quo . my right hon . and learn Friend be be very generous and I appreciate the speech he be make . on that last point , do he also acknowledge that the Government ' s intention of recruit a large number of extra judge imply that they expect a large number of claim to be make on behalf of migrant , rather than their be swiftly detain and remove , as we all wish they to be ? I be inclined to be kind to my hon . friend . it be probably not an either / or , but an and . he and the Government will want to achieve not only a further spur in deal with current case in the system , but any particular influx we might get because of novel point that will need to be test . I be satisfied , have look at the term of the clause currently draft , that it be narrow . if not quite the eye of a needle , it will certainly be a pretty restrictive process . I remember feel deep frustration at the time of covid in not see backlog in the immigration tribunal come down , despite the fact that people be not come into the country . my right hon . and learn Friend may not be aware that after have leave office the current waiting time for an appeal before an immigration tribunal be 48 week . give the thousand of case we successfully clear in the backlog — many of which , thankfully , have be reject — that backlog be probably likely to double in the come week . currently , immigration tribunal will be take between one and two year to hear a case . my right hon . friend be right . he be build on the frustration that I have . that be not a criticism of Ministers . the way in which the Home Office be work do not seem to allow the expedition that be need . I know that he and other have do a lot of work to improve that — by scale up the number of official deal with case and create a sense of urgency with a wartime emergency approach that be entirely right — but I can tell he that back in 2020 I be deeply frustrated not to see a decrease in the backlog , bear in mind that in other area we be actually make a difference and take at least some benefit from the awful covid crisis . the challenge face my hon . and learn Friend the Minister be significant and we should not pretend otherwise . the practice of Government , certainly over the last 14 year , have be that where there be bottleneck — we see they during the pandemic in the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency , the Passport Office and the Home Office — the answer to those question be for Ministers to energise that particular department , recruit more people , allocate more resource and get the backlog down . if it can be do in all those place , there be surely no reason why it can not be do in this hypothetical instance of lot of extraneous claim by people to avoid extradition to Rwanda , give the very narrow scope allow in the Bill . where there be a will there be a way . I entirely agree with my hon . friend . I do not want to detain the Committee unduly lengthily today — some would perhaps say uncharacteristically , but I really do not — [ Laughter . ] self - deprecation take you only so far in this place ! I yield to my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) in that department . to conclude , the Privacy International Supreme Court case from about three or four year ago be a warning . where government , with good intention , try to overreach and wholly exclude a particular judicial review approach , they will often fail . in that case , we see an inevitable consequence of a line of thinking that have go back in our law for about 50 or so year since the anisminic case . we have to be alive to that reality . we should not put the court in a position where we end up with what be a highly contested case with dissent judgment . in the end , it give we a very important guide on how carefully we need to approach these matter . I will not pretend that I can ever love notwithstanding clause . I do not like they , because they create all sort of internal conflict . those conflict be not necessarily in international law — I be less interested in that ; I be more interested in conflict in our own domestic law — but anything that this House do that be ambiguous , contradictory , self - contradictory or unclear serve only to draw the court far into the realm of politic , where none of they ever want to go . we do not have a constitutional court in this country and I hope we never , ever see one . because of our unwritten constitution , we be able as a Parliament to legislate as we wish . but — this be the qualification — I say on Second Reading that the principle of comity , that mutual respect that need to exist between the arm of the constitution , be one that mean we need restraint and to take care when we legislate . however grave the situation might be — previous generation face wartime challenge — we must remember that in legislate in this place , we do not protect ourselves out of the very freedom we cherish . at some point there will not be a Conservative Government sit on the Treasury Benches , but a Government of another hue . I hope , have be in my party for nearly 40 year — I be much old than I look — that we do not see that day , but a day will come when we , as an opposition , will be worried about an overweening socialist government that will try to impose their will through the will of Parliament and will not show the restraint that we expect a democratically elect Government to show . that be why the challenge we face during Brexit be exceptional . I do not think that , despite the maelstrom we all go through and some of the thing we have to do to get that do , we should be seek to normalise they now . my right hon . and learn Friend be once again right that this place should not act in an arbitrary way . I mention Dicey early and he will be familiar with Dicey ' s view on that subject . but in the end our legitimacy be derive from the people and we be answerable to the people . on this issue above all other , the people expect we to stand by our pledge and to stop the boat . I agree with my right hon . friend that we be not just another public agency . this be Parliament and this place have a particular status , position , responsibility and privilege — that word privilege that he and I know and cherish so much in its true sense — that mean we be absolutely at the core of our democracy and our constitution . but it be also our responsibility to make sure that the legislation we pass work . I know that he and my hon . friend who be support the amendment want this law to work — I absolutely accept that — but I say in all candour and frankness that I genuinely think the amendment they have table will make it less likely . I do not say that with any pleasure ; I say it with a heavy heart . history have teach we that where , despite good intention , we end up be too expansive and we overreach , the check and the balance that exist in our constitution will then apply . all that we will do be end up have the sort of argument about the constitution — not arcane to I , but arcane to many people — which , while important , do not solve the problem , and do not deal with the issue that be face we as a people . that be why I urge the Government today to ensure that the intention in the treaty become a reality , that Rwanda do what it say it be go to do so that we can avoid refoulement , and that we focus on the practicality and also avoid more unnecessary legal clash . if I may paraphrase Matthew Arnold , ignorant army clash by night be something that we as conservative should seek to avoid at all cost . let I begin by declare my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which refer to the help that I receive from the Refugee , Asylum and Migration Policy project , and my position as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on migration . I agree with much of what be say by my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) about the process involve in the Bill and the way in which we be debate it today . this be our third immigration Bill in less than two year , and throughout that time Ministers and Back Benchers alike have engage in progressively more inflammatory rhetoric about refugee without address any of the real problem in our asylum and migration system . let I be clear about what those problem be . the real problem have be bring into stark relief . just this weekend five people die cross the channel , and hundred more have be kill make that dangerous crossing . if those desperate people survive the journey , they be force to wait year for a decision on their claim . they be house in uninhabitable condition ; they be unable to work and give back to our society , so they be in danger of destitution ; and if they be destitute , they be force to rely on only a small amount of support , barely cover the cost of basic essential . the availability of functional safe route for people be completely lacking . many of the amendment relate to whether or not Rwanda be a safe country . would we not be in a different place if there be a much broad range of safe and legal route ? we would not see small boat cross the channel , and there would be no need for we to discuss whether or not Rwanda be safe , which be not helpful to Rwanda or to we . I entirely agree . that be an important point , and we be struggle to get much sense out of the Government on it . I have ask repeatedly whether safe and legal route be available to people try to flee from part of the world where genocide have be declare , but unfortunately the answer have always be " the safe and legal route that exist be all that we will offer . " I do not think that that be good enough , and I think we need to have that conversation about safe and legal route . the problem that I have list be the real , human problem . that be the real cost to human life and wellbee that the Government ' s " hostile environment " policy bring . this Bill be another example of Ministers ' double down on that approach , and the amendment table by Conservative Back Benchers — I believe they be amendment 10 , 19 , 20 , 21 , 22 , 56 and 57 — take it even far . as the hon . Lady know , I agree with she that we need to extend safe and legal route — that be why I table my amendment previously , which I hope the Government will honour — but do she not also acknowledge that , even if there be safe and legal route that could be use by legitimate refugee flee from genuine violence and oppression , the bogus asylum seeker who do not meet those criterion would still use people smuggler ? that be why we need to be able to deter and clamp down on they so that they do not set foot on our shore . we need the safe and legal route first . the rate at which people be accept as have a reasonable claim and be give a form of leave to remain in the UK be very high : in recent year , the rate at which application be accept have be as high as 67 % . I do not believe that a large number of people be come here illegally without good claim . indeed , I think the opposite be true , give the evidence from our own system . that be an interesting point , but how do the hon . Lady explain the fact that France receive more asylum application than we do but reject twice as many ? what be we do differently ? I would hope that our system have the trust of its politician and be robust enough to ensure that we be make the right decision whenever possible , although I still believe that there should be an appeal process within that system . I can not say that the system always get it right , and that be certainly bear out by the casework that I have see . it be more complicated than say , " this action will reduce this and that action will increase that . " it be a very complicated system , and the most obvious thing to say about it be that in the past few year and month the second or third high number of people arrive here in small boat have be people from Afghanistan . we be also see people flee from Syria and from all sort of other complex and difficult situation at the moment . that do not take away from the fact that it be not necessarily about the nation those people come from and that it be also about their individual circumstance . I have speak a lot about the right of LGBT people and disabled people seek asylum and how we need to make sure that any system maintain that individual view of an individual go through our system . that be a lesson that should be learn from the Windrush review . at its core , the hostile environment be a policy design to make life as uncomfortable as possible for everyone who come here and to prevent anyone from access the support that international law say be rightfully theirs , and now the Government be propose to outsource what little responsibility they have take by offload their obligation and offshore refugee against their will . it be no wonder that they be recklessly declare Rwanda as safe , despite the know risk . as the shadow Minister point out , since the Government sign their deportation deal , six people from Rwanda have be grant asylum here in the UK . torture persist there , along with continue risk of refoulement to third country , which be the reason I support amendment 35 and 37 . Human Rights Watch ' s report on Rwanda as part of its World Report series publish in 2021 , 2022 and 2023 all include example of torture in Rwanda . in the UN Human Rights Council ' s periodic review of Rwanda publish in January 2021 , it be the UK Government who criticise Rwanda for " extrajudicial killing , death in custody , enforce disappearance and torture " . the country have a continued history of breach obligation under the refugee convention , and between 2020 and 2022 the UNHCR find that afghan , syrian and yemeni asylum seeker have 100 % rejection rate in Rwanda . those be statistic that I be sure people would find shocking give our granting rate . it be common for discrimination and abuse to be face by LGBTQ + people in Rwanda . same - sex marriage be prohibit , and LGBTQ + people be not protect from discrimination by any specific legislation there . all this make a mockery of clause 2 of the Bill . minister can continue to use ad hoc bill such as this one to paper over the crack in their asylum policy , but the truth be that the foundation of their approach be completely rotten . rather than chase headline , it be time they think again and build an asylum system that put respect for international law and basic human dignity first . immigration be quite possibly the most important issue face this government or indeed any Government in Europe . it be the issue of our age , and mass immigration , whether legal or illegal , be undermine trust . this debate have to be hold against the backdrop of the overwhelming number come into our country . Sir Roger , you and I enter Parliament on the same day in 1983 . during that year , net legal migration be only about 17 , 000 . it be now 600 , 000 . this debate about small boat be hold against the backdrop of this huge influx into our society , on which the british people have not be consult . it be change our society and undermine the work ethic of our own people . too many people be languish on benefit . perhaps some of our public service be not pay adequate salary . we be bring more and more people into this country , whereas we should be encouraging and train our own people to work . the whole small boat crisis be make much more toxic by that debate . when people say , " well , 40 , 000 people a year isn ' t a great deal compare with the sort of number come across the Mediterranean " , we have to see it in term of that overall debate . unless the Government can sort this out and actually stop the boat , which be the commitment make by the Prime Minister , it will be extraordinarily politically damaging to the Conservative Government and also damage to the public ' s perception of and belief in democracy . when the Prime Minister say he want to stop the boat , he should stop the boat . that be why , tonight and tomorrow , I will support the amendment table most ably by my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) and my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) . I table amendment 56 and 57 , which I will explain in a moment . against this backdrop , we have an extraordinary and absurd situation in which people be arrive in Calais have travel through an entirely safe country . there be no threat to their human right . they may find it difficult to speak French , or they may not want to learn to speak French , and they may not be able to find a job , but they be in an entirely safe country . they be put their life at risk — even this week , there have be an appalling tragedy — and we be encourage the most horrible criminal gang to get involve in this trade . they then arrive here and claim asylum . unbelievably , we be put they up comfortably in hotel , which other european country do not do . even more extraordinarily , and I will not labour this point because I have make it many time before , such be the crisis in our hotel that the Government be now spend ten of million of pound on try to convert former military basis such as RAF Scampton in my constituency — by the way , we have now be argue about RAF Scampton for nine month and not a single migrant have arrive there . the court case be still ongoing . if we put ourselves in the migrant ' place , we can see that the draw factor to this country be extraordinarily high . first , we speak English . secondly , unlike in France or Germany , they will be put in a comfortable hotel . thirdly , they be give benefit . fourthly , there be probably a 95 % chance that they will be give asylum at the end of the process . if they have come from a hell - hole like Syria , Iraq or Afghanistan , why would they not want to take that risk ? we must be mug , frankly , and the rest of Europe must be laugh at we . the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) also ask that question . if it be so attractive to come to the United Kingdom and nothing else have be a deterrent — if the risk to life of cross the channel be not a deterrent — why should the prospect of be send to Rwanda be a deterrent ? if Rwanda be a safe and secure country where they can have a comfortable life , why should the prospect of be send there be a deterrent ? what be the hon . Gentleman ' s solution ? when Opposition member make these argument , they have to say what on earth they would do . I agree with the Opposition on one thing : with modern surveillance technology , drone and all the rest of it , it be a mystery why we be not manage to stop more people . with modern police effort , it be a mystery why we can not interdict more of these criminal gang . it be so easy to get involve in this trade . we close down one criminal gang , as the Opposition want to put more resource into do , and another spring up . it be incumbent on the Opposition , give that we be such an attractive country , to explain how on earth they would stop this trade . I question whether we can proceed with the policy of keep people in hotel , pay they benefit and approve 95 % of application when they have come through a safe country . the problem I have with the Government be not their Rwanda policy because , look at Australia and elsewhere , I accept that the only policy that seem to have any chance of discourage this mass movement of people be offshore . my argument with the Government be that , if we pass this Bill and keep pass Bills , such be the nature of our legal system that people will make spurious claim base on their political opinion , which will make it impossible for they to be put on a flight to Rwanda . that be the nature of my amendment , which be why I talk about spurious claim . let we consider one example . let we suppose that I be an illegal migrant who have pay all this money to get through France . I be now go to put my life at risk , have put a lot of my personal resource into this project . I be determined that when I arrive in Dover there will be no chance of my be send to Rwanda or anywhere else . this be so simple : people can manufacture some spurious opposition to the Rwanda regime . they can do a tweet — even I can do a tweet . they can do a tweet in five minute say that the President of Rwanda be a dictator who should be overthrow , and they will have do it — it will have go worldwide . alternatively , once they have get into this country they can simply protest outside the rwandan embassy about the President . that sort of thing have happen outside the saudi arabian embassy . People can so easily concoct a spurious reason as to why , although Rwanda generally may be a safe country , they personally can not be send there because of what they have do — demonstrate or tweet . that will clog up our whole judicial process . we have already hear from my right hon . friend the Member for Newark that in August we may have hundred of crossing every week . every claimant will take his case to the tribunal , where it will have to be hear , and we will have to deal with appeal . I can not see how any of these people be actually go to be put on these flight by October , when there may be a general election . a very small number might be , but give the nature of the judicial process , the right to appeal and the ease with which someone can concoct a history of opposition to the rwandan regime , I do not think anybody be really go to be put on a flight . alternatively , they can easily concoct a history of mental illness — that be so subjective . it be easy enough to find a doctor to sign a medical certificate say that someone have a history of mental illness . it be easy to concoct a personal history . for instance , if someone come from Iran , they can allege that they be gay . again , no tribunal would export someone to Iran if they say that they be gay . if someone come from Iraq , they can say that they be an activist Christian , whether or not they be . I can not see how anybody who have the right to go through the judicial process will not do so , and give the ease with which they can create a personal history that will make their own personal circumstance impossible in Rwanda , I can not believe that any court or tribunal will export they to Rwanda . the right hon . Gentleman be talk , quite ridiculously , about people concoct story — I feel that he be perhaps concoct one himself . will he tell I when he last speak to an asylum seeker ? they may not concoct it ; it may be entirely true — we do not know . however , what we all know be true be that every asylum seeker who arrive in Dover will say that they can not be send to Rwanda because of their own personal history , and every single one of we would do the same thing . last year , we have the farce of the judgment issue by the Council of Europe , which we will be discuss in more detail later . I have be a member of the Council of Europe for 14 year . we now know that this ex parte judgment , this rule 39 , be perhaps not deliver accord to international law , and apparently , in discussion with the European Court of Human Rights , we have now seek assurance that it be go to be tidy up . but even if our own court allow somebody to proceed through they , with their case to be hear , even if we manage to appoint a sufficient number of judge , even if the person do not create a history and even if our own court allow they to be put on a flight , there be this right of appeal to the European Court of Human Rights . we therefore have no certainty that these case will not be hear and delay . I accept that this be the tough Bill we have ever have . it be a good Bill in its own right . if we have produce it two year ago , we may have be get people to Rwanda by now , but time be run out . we have perhaps nine month until the next general election . if we do not amend the Bill , we could end up in the bad possible situation , where we , as a Government , say that we be committed to stop the boat , we have pass the necessary legislation and then we have egg all over our face because nobody be actually put on the flight . we will look extremely stupid . in my view , the only solution be that when people arrive here , as my right hon . friend the Member for Newark say , they be detain , but within a matter of day they be offshore , and the only justification for not be put on a flight be a proper medical condition . that be the only way we will get people on these flight . may I posit a slightly different approach ? as my right hon . Friend say , all of we on the Government Benches want to do something about the problem . there be Opposition Members who be quite happy to subcontract our immigration decision make to the evil people smuggler operate small boat across the channel , but we be unite on try to do something . the only issue on which we differ be the extent to which we wish to override domestic and international law on individual human right . my right hon . friend have stand up for his constituent in their most difficult time , so he will understand that to do so would be a massive step that most of we on the Government Benches be not prepared to take . be my right hon . friend prepare to see the Bill through , in the face of opposition from those who , at time , risk look as if they be keener on put sub - postmaster in jail than illegal immigrant , and make sure we have an option and a deterrence that will almost certainly work ? or be he prepared to sacrifice that huge step forward on the altar of an amendment to try to rule out all possibility of any individual human right complaint be uphold ? to be fair to my hon . friend , I do not like what I be suggest , but we be face with a national crisis and we have to look at our own experience of what have and have not work . we all know that overwhelmingly the people who be cross be economic migrant . they be all perfectly nice people — I make no complaint about they personally ; they be just try to get a well life — but we all know the truth be that they would do anything to avoid be put on one of these flight . I agree with my hon . friend that we would not normally want to circumvent human right , but in this case we know that be what be go to happen . we be almost argue on the head of a pin about legal uncertainty , when we know from practical experience that everybody will appeal and be able to create a credible case , base on personal political involvement , mental health or some other reason , and nobody — or only a derisory number of people — will be put on the flight . the Government should grasp this nettle and accept these amendment , although I fear they will not . if they do not , we will be in a very dangerous place in relation to public opinion . it be always interesting to follow the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) . I be pleased to have the opportunity to speak to the amendment table by my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) , the shadow Home Secretary . as we consider the amendment and new clause before we , I start by acknowledge , as my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield , Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) have do , how awful it be that more life have be lose this weekend in the cold water of the channel . More family be grieve while dangerous criminal smuggler gang be make huge profit from these perilous boat crossing , whenever the weather calm . they must be stop before any more life be lose and that require action , but it must be the right action . the Tories be in total chaos about this fail scheme , which be cost the british taxpayer £ 400 million with more money promise , even though not a single asylum seeker have be send to Rwanda . every new detail of the plan be more farcical than the last and , as we know , more Home secretary have be send to Rwanda than asylum seeker so far . even if the Tories get the scheme off the ground , it will cover less than 1 % of people arrive in the country , or people in asylum hotel , make it astronomically expensive . that be why I support new clause 6 , in the name of the shadow Home Secretary . this would place the monitor committee for the Rwanda treaty on a statutory basis , and place condition on when the classification of Rwanda as " safe " can be suspend in accordance with material condition and / or non - compliance with obligation under the Rwanda treaty . this new clause be absolutely the right thing to do , and I urge Ministers to look at it very seriously indeed . in April 2022 , the British Government and Rwanda sign a memorandum of understanding to provide a Migration and Economic Development Partnership . it be a five - year agreement , from 2022 to 2027 , and , under the deal , the UK pay Rwanda large sum of money as part of its economic development fund , which have no impact on the asylum system . in return , Rwanda have agree to take responsibility for some of the people who arrive in the UK on small boat . those people will be remove to Rwanda where their asylum claim will be process , but the UK will have to pay extra cost for asylum processing , decision and support . in June 2022 , the European Court of Human Rights issue an injunction that halt the first attempt removal until legal proceeding have conclude in the UK court . the High Court back the policy ; the Court of Appeal declare it to be unlawful . in November 2023 , the UK Supreme Court uphold the Court of Appeal judgment and rule unanimously that the Rwanda policy be unlawful because there be " substantial ground " to believe that people transfer there could be send to country where they would face persecution or inhumane treatment — a practice know as refoulement — if Rwanda reject their asylum claim . that be why new clause 6 be so important and would be a welcome addition — and a much need one at that — to the Bill . through our Front - Bench amendment , Labour have try to guide Ministers in the right direction and , importantly , to stand up for our value and our commitment to the strong border security . that be why labour ' s plan be so important and have my support . labour ' s plan will strengthen our border security and smash the criminal gang network and their supply chain with new power and a new cross - border police unit , so that we stop the boat reach the french coast in the first place . we will clear the backlog with new fast - track system , end hotel use — save the taxpayer more than £ 2 billion — and improve enforcement with a new return and enforcement unit to reverse the collapse in return for those who have no right to be here . we on the Labour Benches believe in strong border security and a properly control and manage asylum system , so that the UK do our bit to help those flee persecution and conflict , but return those who have no right to be here . that be why new clause 6 be so worthy of support from across the Committee . it mean that we stay true to who we be — good neighbour , commit to do what be right and to stand up for those most in need . that be the kind of global Britain that I be committed to . get this wrong would not just be a cost to our reputation ; this whole scheme have a massive financial implication too . the full cost of the Rwanda scheme have not be disclose and what detail be available have emerge in a haphazard way , through Home Office document , official letter , comment in Parliament and a leak . Sir Matthew Rycroft have say that he be " not at liberty " to disclose the full cost as they be contain in a " confidential " memorandum of understanding between the two government , say that it be " commercially sensitive " information . he say the Home Office annual report and account set out detail of the cost for the relevant financial year — the report be usually publish in July . however , the Government have set out the cost for future year for the UK ' s security collaboration with France . in addition to payment of at least £ 232 million between 2014 and 2023 to combat illegal migration , the Government have agree to pay the french sum of £ 124 million this year , £ 168 million next year and £ 184 million the year after . these cost be set out before the payment be make in a public document . this be why our Front - Bench amendment be so important . this Bill be way off the mark , as be the motivation behind it . anything we can do to improve it should be a priority . let I turn specifically to amendment 35 and 37 , which also have my full support . amendment 37 would ensure that decision maker be still able to consider the risk of refoulement when make individual decision on removal to Rwanda . Amendment 35 would permit court and tribunal to deal with systematic risk of refoulement from Rwanda . those be two important amendment , and I urge the Minister , as I do with new clause 6 , to think carefully about their merit . in 2019 , the Conservatives promise to end boat crossing in six month . since then , the number have rocket . in January 2023 , the Prime Minister pledge again to " stop the boat " , but since then , almost 30 , 000 people have cross the channel — the second high number ever . that mean that over 100 , 000 people have make that treacherous journey in three year . the new Home Secretary say that hotel use be go down , but the number of people in asylum hotel hit a record high of 56 , 000 in September 2023 . that be over 10 , 000 more than when the Prime Minister pledge to end hotel use the previous year . the british taxpayer be now spend an astronomical £ 8 million a day on hotel thank to the conservative chaos . that be £ 3 billion a year . almost 350 hotel be still be use , and criminal gang be be let off . under the Tories , the annual profit of criminal smuggler gang have soar from £ 1 million four year ago to over £ 100 million today , and conviction for people smuggler have drop by a shocking 36 % since 2010 . this whole situation be a mess . it be a mess for the Government , and we be all so bored of the pathetic scene of Whips and Ministers scuttle around seek to peel off rebel . it be a mess for our border and a complete mess when it come to our international leadership . the amendment I have speak in favour of today would help make a bad Bill a little well . I urge Ministers to do the right thing and listen . labour stand ready to help Tory Ministers finally get a grip , and the soon the well . good afternoon , Mr Evans , and thank you for call I to speak in this important debate in reference to my amendment 1 , 2 and 3 to the Bill and some other that I will cover during the course of my remark . I be not a lawyer or an immigration specialist , but I have seek advice , do my research and , above all , speak to the people of my constituency . this be the first time that I have be sufficiently animate to speak in a debate on this issue . contrary to what we hear regularly from hon . and right hon . member , when I walk the street of Delyn and speak to my constituent , almost none of they raise the issue of illegal migration as be among the thing they be most concerned about . I appreciate that rural north Wales be a different place to many constituency , but it be worth note for the record that it be not the priority of everyone in the country . they would rather the Government spend more time improve public service , make our street safe , return we to a period of great economic stability and — dare I say it — aim for prosperity , but here we be in another effort to solve the intractable problem of small boat crossing with this Bill . some element do not necessarily sit well with I , but some of the amendment , sadly , sit even bad . some of the rhetoric that we hear on this subject be quite alarming . I have try in my small number of amendment to apply a little common sense and compromise , neither of which appear to be in abundant supply when it come to discuss this issue . I listen carefully to the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , who be sadly no long in his place , who speak passionately on this issue and answer my question and other put to he in intervention very well , but I can not help but retain a feeling of the fundamental unfairness of some of his amendment . I will expand on that later . turn to my amendment , amendment 1 seek to compel the Home Secretary to confirm on an ongoing basis that Rwanda remain a safe country . I have no interest in restart the debate about whether it be safe now ; for the purpose of this legislation , we assume that it be . what I be try to address in the amendment be the political and social instability that exist in many part of Africa , and that regime change be more common in that part of the world than any other . it will be 30 year this year since the horrific rwandan genocide in 1994 , and a lot of thing have happen in those year , largely down to stability and the step take by President Kagame . it be probably worth note that since 1994 , Rwanda have have two president , whereas the UK have have eight Prime Ministers of vary level of honesty and competence . it might therefore seem unusual to table an amendment on regime change , but it be a real concern none the less . in 2021 , coup d ' é tat oust four head of State in sub - Saharan Africa . elect leader in other african nation be accuse of enact a more authoritarian approach , presumably to stave off a similar rise of force against they . between 2017 and 2019 , President Bouteflika of Algeria , President al - Bashir of Sudan and President Mugabe of Zimbabwe be oust after a combine 90 year in power . in a paper release two year ago almost to the day , expert from the London School of Economics and Political Science show that , " their removal , rather than a direct consequence of mass protest and economic downturn , be the culmination of ripened factionalism , which have blossom after the leader ' attempt to centralise power . " that simply illustrate the potential volatility of politic in the region and the rationale behind my amendment . it be not an onerous requirement that the Home Secretary must lay before the House a report every 12 month confirm that Rwanda remain safe . as a responsible partner to various international agreement and convention , it would seem the least we should do in that regard . I will take amendment 2 and 3 together , as they be relate , as well as comment on other amendment on the same issue . as a layperson who be not legally train in any way , but hopefully have a decent dose of common sense , I find it unthinkable that individual against whom any kind of judgment be make would not be allow the right to appeal against that judgment . that type of thinking put our legal process back 100 year ; it be frankly beneath we and beneath what this Parliament should stand for . we have in this country a robust and well - establish legal system , from magistrate to county court , Crown court , High Court , Court of Appeal and finally the Supreme Court , with various tribunal and other such device for specific purpose . as a matter of law and simple fairness , we allow people to question and appeal . shoplifter can appeal . car thief can appeal . abuser can appeal . perpetrator of domestic violence can appeal . rapist can appeal . murderer can appeal . I have listen carefully to the argument of some of my colleague , both personally and what have be say in the House and in various medium outlet . I feel compel to conclude that the trend towards dog - whistle politic and put the label of enemy on people where no such label need to apply seem to have get the well of some people . I point out to colleague that although it be often the noisy voice that call for migrant simply to be round up and ship out , the noisy voice be almost certainly not the voice of the majority of the people of the United Kingdom , which be and always have be a welcoming and kind country to those in need . we can point to all manner of scheme to show that that have be the case . even recently , between 2015 and June of last year , more than 179 , 000 people arrive in the UK from Ukraine . over that same period , more than 123 , 000 people have come to the UK on the basis of be grant british national overseas status and more than 50 , 000 people have come as part of the afghan and syrian resettlement programme . we be a kind and supportive country to those in need — but have we become what many consider to be a soft touch ? perhaps in some way we have . I look at the movement of people in two distinct way : they be either move away from something or move towards something . what I mean by that be that some people be , as we all know , in a horrific situation . whatever people think of the Government in the UK , it do not carry out large - scale attack against its own people , as we have see in Syria , and the Government of the UK do not routinely persecute and incarcerate people who dare to speak out against they . of course we recognise that people in many place across the world need to flee . they need to move away from that situation . where I end up , however , and where I have sympathy with some of the argument make by those on the right among Conservative Members , be that there be a clear and distinct dividing line between someone move away from danger by necessity and someone move towards something else by choice . that be where much of the message be lose and drown out by noisy activist on both side , when a calm and common - sense approach to think about the problem would make it very clear . those people I mention early , in danger and in fear of persecution , incarceration or bad , must of course do all they can to remove themselves from that situation and to save their life and those of their family . I have absolutely no problem with that . where the problem lie , however , be that once there be no danger and the fear of persecution , incarceration or bad have pass , movement be out of choice rather than necessity . People be then move towards something they consider preferable , rather than away from danger — the danger be over . I completely understand the argument and the confusion about why people need to move from France , a perfectly safe country . aside from the occasional street protest , and baggage handler batter luggage when they actually turn up for work , France be a civilised , modern and , above all , safe country where people be not in danger , so people who come from there be no long seek to escape but be in fact move towards something preferable . that be where the argument of certain charity and some Opposition member sadly lose their credibility . the problem be that , once they have make that journey across the channel , they be our responsibility , and we simply can not send they back unless France agree to take they , which it will not — why would it ? aside from the fact that the French have no desire to increase their own problem , we have just spend the last decade call they and their friend everything under the sun and say that we do not want anything more to do with they , so of course they be not inclined to help we deal with this problem . what do we do when we can not just send people back and have to deal with the situation ourselves ? we have hear many Opposition Members say that we can not do this or that , but no one have say , " here be what we would do instead . " many people have say throughout the debate that there be no capacity in the UK — that we do not have enough house for everyone , or enough doctor , dentist , hospital school or general infrastructure for even our exist population — and they be right . relocate asylum seeker to a safe third country be a long - establish mechanism use all over the world — it be nothing new — but I do not like the push for a lack of due process in order to remove people ' s right in favour of speed , expediency and a populist movement . amendment 2 and 3 would balance those compete need by allow for appeal if they be hear remotely from Rwanda post - deportation , which seem perfectly feasible . if covid teach we anything helpful , it be that we could be a lot more flexible in our use of technology than we have be . since 2020 , court have be rapidly move online : the cloud video platform be introduce in response to the pandemic , and a video hearing system be already be use nationally in tax and property tribunal , as well as in Chester Crown court , not far from my constituency . by all account , it work seamlessly and be a great success . his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service plan to transition to a new service of video hearing cover more area , so it seem perfectly reasonable for the same technology to be use to hear appeal against asylum decision . as the Government have considerably narrow the eligibility of appeal in clause 2 and 3 , the chance of any eligible claim rear its head be negligible , so there be no reason that individual can not continue to be remove before have their appeal hear via a government - establish video conferencing facility in Rwanda . I be aware of the establish principle lay down in law , in the european convention on human right , that people can not be remove to Rwanda if there be an imminent and foreseeable risk of serious and irreversible harm . the Government rightly need to pay heed to that situation , as the UK be very much a signatory to the echr — a situation that should not even be consider for change . as the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , mention , it would not be appropriate simply to ignore that rule . I thank the Minister for the time he take to address that concern in relation to my amendment and to explain why he do not feel that my proposal would be possible . I completely accept his explanation and be pleased to have have it confirm by the right hon . Lady early , but I hope that a simple common - sense approach will be take in the aftermath . for example , colleague have express concern that woman who be heavily pregnant might be able to appeal on the basis of be unfit to fly . I hope that the process will recognise that anyone determine themselves fit enough to take a 30 - mile journey across a dangerous sea in a barely float craft that could capsize at any moment can not then claim to be unfit to take a flight in perfectly comfortable and safe condition . the Government have rightly narrow down the possible reason for appeal so much that I be astonish that there be still people who be argue it be not enough . once again , we allow murderer to appeal . we remain a civilised society ; we can not simply rule it out . we hear all the time about people be wrongly convict of thing : we have spend the last few week hear about a bunch of people who be wrongly convict in the Horizon scandal . I do not believe for a second that anyone in the House would have deny they the right to appeal , so I implore colleague not to lose sight of their humanity . the ground for appeal be so narrow that they will hardly ever apply . I have speak for plenty long enough , apart from to say that amendment 56 and 57 , which stand in the name of the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , be also eminently sensible and would close another potential loophole . I hope upon hope that colleague will be able to see the wood for the tree on these issue , understand that entirely take away the right of appeal would be an affront to our legal framework , and not obstruct the Bill any far . it be a pleasure to follow a contribution that be slightly more rational than those we have hear from a number of member on the conservative Benches during today ' s debate . this be my first Committee of the whole House , and it have be an interesting experience . we have have 17th - century constitutional and political lecture , analysis of the US constitution and , really interestingly , the suggestion from a number of Conservative Members — which slightly let the cat out of the bag — that this policy be all about the upcoming general election and how quickly we can get flight off the ground before that happen . we have hear very little about whether the Bill actually contribute to an effective immigration strategy . I rise to speak in support of new clause 6 . I have speak in various other debate on this legislation and outline my objection . it be a fundamentally ridiculous proposition that be become increasingly ridiculous as we see the Tory psychodrama play out in front of we — slightly less dramatic this time than it be in December , but I be sure that will change — and pull the Bill in two completely oppose direction while the Government still claim that it be an entirely workable policy . it have the dubious distinction of be a policy that be both utterly immoral and completely ineffective , at the same time as cost an extraordinary amount of money . it be seemingly not even support by the Prime Minister , yet here we be , debate amendment that will take the Bill even close to breach international law — if it do not already — and far diminish Britain ' s stand in the world . the Bill should be vote down on Third Reading , and from the look of the Tory chaos it might well be , but for now we have an opportunity to try to make it a little well with some safeguard . in my view , new clause 6 should be completely uncontroversial . if the government genuinely believe that Rwanda be a safe country — if they believe it be able to meet all the expectation place on it in the Rwanda treaty — why should there be any hesitation at all about put the monitoring committee on a statutory footing ? that would ensure that Rwanda ' s status as a safe country can be suspend if the fact change — if we uncover additional evidence that perhaps it be not a safe country , if the political situation change , or if the Foreign Office change its travel guidance . surely those be basic thing that would lead we to question the safety of Rwanda . it be on that evidence base that I will focus my remark . as have be discuss , clause 2 of the Bill be an attempt to replace fact with legally bind fiction . the Bill might be say to legislate for a lie — to make something that be not true on the evidence we have see true in the eye of the legal establishment . it be Orwell who write : " in the end the Party would announce that two and two make five , and you would have to believe it … the very existence of external reality … be tacitly deny by their philosophy . " we be in that situation now : " forget the evidence to the contrary . just take our word for it : this be fact . " through new clause 6 , we have an opportunity to ensure that if evidence of human right abuse or the mistreatment of migrant be to emerge , there be a mechanism to suspend the Government ' s alternative truth and make legal decision in our court on the basis of reality . it be risible that this be even debatable . give the security situation near the border with the Democratic Republic of Congo and Burundi , which the Foreign Office , in its own international travel guidance today , say make Rwanda " unstable " , be it not a sensible precaution to introduce a protection say that if the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be to advise against travel to Rwanda , the statement that Rwanda be a safe country for migrant should be suspend ? otherwise , we have a Bill that the Government seek to make into law that simply say that in perpetuity , no matter what , Rwanda be a safe country . the 137 page of the Home Office ' s information note on human right , which it publish this week , make for interesting reading . I spend some time read all 137 page , and I encourage member to do so , although I wonder how many have . in some way , when I be read it , I be surprised that the Government have actually put it on their website , give the litany of evidence it present on why Rwanda can not in all seriousness be declare a safe country . it detail example of the state prosecute political opponent , death in police custody , unofficial detention facility , police torture , ill treatment and torture in custody , the recruitment of child soldier as recently as last year , and countless other breach of human right law . it also cover the questionable strength of Rwandan Government institution to challenge those breach , so I do wonder whether the Government have read their own evidence pack . to add to that , this week the UNHCR have provide further evidence , update just yesterday , that the UK - Rwanda scheme do not meet the require standard relate to the legality and appropriateness of the transfer of asylum seeker . it state that the scheme be therefore " not compatible with the international refugee law . " it cite numerous concern about fair and efficient procedure in Rwanda for handle asylum application and the continue risk of refoulement , and it conclude that this " undermine the universality of human right , have implication for the rule of law both domestically and internationally , and set an acutely troubling precedent . " the evidence be clear on the Government ' s own website that Rwanda can not be define as a safe country , but even if we be to accept that it be a safe country , surely new clause 6 give scope in the future should circumstance change — even if it be the Government who decide that — to suspend the idea that it be a safe country and allow the court to make their own decision . although vote down this entire Bill on Third Reading be the right course of action , we should at least try to do what we can to make it slightly more sensible — to oppose some of the amendment table by Conservative Members that would take we even far towards breach our international obligation , and to support amendment that seek to make it slightly more sensible . new clause 6 be a sensible amendment that I would encourage member to vote for . this Bill must be defeat and the policy it seek to enact must be abandon . it be hugely costly and it be ineffective . with the news this week that , as member have say , five more people have be tragically kill in the freezing cold water of the channel try to make their way to this country , it be time to move beyond these gimmick and the appeasement of the extreme in the Conservative party and to deliver some workable policy . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate . I rise to speak in support of the amendment stand in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , who I believe have show considerable political and personal courage during the course of this legislation to date . I want to open my remark by say how strongly I believe in the principle of the Rwanda scheme . it be imperative that we break the business model of the people smuggler in a way that mean the trade be not merely dent but cease . we have hear platitude , I fear , from Opposition Members about how if only we work a bit more closely with the european law enforcement agency , everything would resolve itself . of course , would that that be so . I can testify not only from my own time in Government but from have speak to Ministers in the Home Office both currently and previously that a litany of work be under way to make sure that we bear down on this evil trade , and it have have some success . crossing be down by approximately a third on their peak in 2022 , and there have be enforcement action range from the french coast right through to dinghy sale in Bulgaria , which testify to the fact that the UK be work at pace with our partner agency to try to end these crossing . however , unless we address the root cause , we will always be leave deal with the consequence of the problem . that , I be afraid , be not acceptable to I and , much more importantly , it be not acceptable to my constituent or to the people of this country . just this weekend we have , as the hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) say , a tragic reminder of the human cost of allow this trade to persist . clearly it also have serious consequence for the United Kingdom . it make a mockery of our border security and damage social cohesion . the accommodation cost alone of our asylum seeker population be somewhere in the region of £ 8 million a day , and that be before the through - life cost of these people be in this country . it also compromise our security , as the awful murder in Hartlepool a few month ago make clear . we do not know — we can not know — who be come into this country , and that be a serious and substantial risk that it be incumbent on we to acknowledge . as my right hon . friend the Member for Newark allude to , the test that face we as legislator be simple : will this legislation work ? it be not , " be this legislation the strong ever ? " , although for the record it be , but it be still likely to prove insufficient . still less be the test , " be this as far as the Prime Minister be willing to go ? " there be a crisis of faith in our politic . that boil down , as it have do for a number of year , span the Brexit debate and the cause of that , to whether we as member of Parliament mean what we say . be our word worth anything ? be we capable as a country of assert our national sovereignty ? be we as a country capable of police our border ? I welcome the fact that the Government have decide that we now need to derogate from part of the Human Rights Act 1998 , which be welcome , brave and commendable . we now need to follow that logic to its conclusion . as amendment 10 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Stone , set out , we should set out clearly and unambiguously that this Act will have effect notwithstanding the Human Rights Act . we must also close the loophole that regrettably remain in the legislation . we have proposal to do so , with an accompanying legal opinion from John Larkin KC , the former Attorney General for Northern Ireland . as my right hon . friend the Member for Newark set out eloquently a few hour ago , we must in particular strengthen provision against individual claim , as oppose to the general principle of the safety of Rwanda . it be welcome that we be assert that , but it will be critically undermined unless we can stop the profusion of individual claim that will materialise , not least with the help , I be afraid , of the creative legal fraternity , if we do not close off that route . contrary to what the hon . member for Delyn ( Mr Roberts ) say a few minute ago , we be not exclude appeal right entirely . if , for example , someone be seriously ill , they will not be eligible for removal to Rwanda under the amendment of my hon . friend the Member for Stone . however , we must make it clear that we will not tolerate the abuse — and they be abuse — that we witness day in , day out under the current system . we must also make clear in the Bill that rule 39 interim injunction from the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg will not have automatic binding effect . that be something that I think many of we regard as a settled issue . anyone who watch the Prime Minister ' s appearance on the Kuenssberg show on the BBC just 10 day ago will have see that he be unable to offer that guarantee . he be unable to offer it in good conscience , because here we enter the contested territory of what the Attorney General be prepared to sign off and what the ministerial code will allow . that go to show precisely why the issue be so press . if we do not assert it as a sovereign Parliament in the Bill , it be highly likely that the issue will rear its head again in the month ahead . failure to close the loophole will mean that , as my right hon . friend the Member for Newark say , we will face press operational problem that will significantly impair , and perhaps totally frustrate , our ability to pursue what this side of the Committee wish to deliver . our court system will be overwhelm , our detain estate for asylum seeker will be overwhelm , and the public ' s patience will be exhaust . we have march the british public up this hill not once , but twice already and fail both time . this be our third attempt . the Government ' s own estimate , as we know , be that as we stand today , the Bill ' s good chance of success can be rate at around 50 : 50 . that be simply not adequate . we hear today that 150 judge and their court will be make available to process appeal arise under the legislation . apart from be one of the most effective device I can conceive of to worsen our exist court backlog , that be simply confirmation of the scale of the problem that the Government anticipate as a result of what will happen under the Bill as draft . I do not know where we will find these judge , and it would be helpful if the Minister — I hope he know that I have an enormous amount of personal and professional respect for he — could elucidate that in his remark . I do not know from which case they will be divert , and I certainly do not know at what cost that will all be accomplish , but it be not a tenable strategy for we to set aside such a huge amount of court time when we can act now to prevent spurious abuse be sustain still far . as my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) say , this be our last chance to act in this Parliament . we have try on multiple occasion . despite the valiant effort of my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark , my hon . friend the Members for Torbay ( Kevin Foster ) and for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) and other , we have not succeed . it come down to this fundamental question : in whose interest do we sit here ? do we legislate today ? it be clearly in the public interest that we sit here . I warn in the debate on Brexit , which I have hope be relegate to the annal of history , that the House be play with fire . if mainstream democratic politician do not or can not resolve the problem that face this country , our political process will , I be afraid , move inextricably to the extreme . we have hear a lot of rhetoric — it be rhetoric — from those on the Opposition Benches about the extremeness of the position we be advocate . trust I : it will be as nothing compare with who will sit on these bench if we fail in our task , because we be at the limit of the tenable when it come to the feeling of the british public . if the Labour party win the general election that will be hold later this year — I freely admit that the polling at the moment suggest that it will , in large part because of the frustration , frankly , that the british people feel about this issue — it will have to confront these same problem . if it be not willing to act any more than we have be willing to act , it will be eat by this issue just the same . it be a certainty that we have to slay this beast , if it be not to destroy all the mainstream centre ground of british politic and leave it in the hand of people who will advocate genuinely radical and unacceptable solution . my right hon . friend be make a powerful speech . I be curious , and it be possibly my procedural unawareness that lead I to ask this question , but if this Bill be vote down tomorrow evening on Third Reading , be it not the case that we will not be able to bring anything else back within this Parliament , on the basis that we can not ask the same question twice if it have already be negative ? he say that it be not an ideal Bill , it be flawed and its success be 50 : 50 at good , but if he vote it down , there be surely a zero per cent . chance of anything happen . order . I remind member that when intervene they should please look forward , so that their voice , mellifluous as it may be , can be pick up and the Hansard reporter can get the word down accurately . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . it be possible to bring back a Bill on this issue , provide there be a substantial difference in what be bring forward from what we be debate . I would argue that a Bill that be not focused , as this one be , on the general safety of Rwanda , but on the wide enforceability of our immigration law could be bring forward in this session . it be a regrettable farce — I use the word advisedly — in the previous Parliament of which I be a Member that the overt bias of the then Speaker , Mr Bercow , mean that we be frustrate when we attempt to deal with this issue in the context of Brexit . if the government do not support amendment to the Bill — I hope they will — I do not anticipate that situation arise in what would be the happy event of their come forward with a new Bill that go far on these point so that they can command the support of the whole of the Conservative party . rise — I will not give way far on this point . we be clearly keen as a conservative party to deliver on this problem in a way that will satisfy the british public . the Prime Minister have say that he will do " whatever it take " . unfortunately , I do not believe that , as of this moment , we be set to do whatever it take to stop the problem . I can vote for this legislation only if I believe genuinely and sincerely that it will resolve the problem and I can look my constituent — the people who send I here — in the eye and say , " this be go to fix it " , because I have do so twice before and let they down . I urge my colleague to reflect carefully on that . the Prime Minister have confirm that the general election be likely to be hold in the latter half of this year . I be afraid that , by that time , there will have be contact between this Bill and the reality of our court system , and I do not think the outcome will be a pretty one . there will have be time for it to be test and , I fear , for it to fail . at good , as my right hon . friend the Member for Newark observe , we be likely to see a few token flight set off — not the automatic deterrent that will be require to change the incentive . the expectation for a young male who be in essence an economic migrant in all but name seek a well life in the UK need to be that he will be detain and remove . that , and that alone , be what will change the incentive drive this trade . that be not what be set to be deliver by the Bill . in the absence of amendment be bring forward and support by the Government , I will not be able to support the Bill . More than that , I will vote against it on Third Reading . I say that with real sadness but with total determination that we as a conservative party should show that we be honest with the british people about the nature of the crisis we face , and that we be determined to do everything in our power to resolve it . short of that , this legislation can not have my support . I rise to speak to the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . those of we in this place who be not learn member have have interesting conversation in the past week and month with learn colleague on both side of the argument on the Bill . some want it toughen and some want it slightly soften , but all of we be unite in want a Bill that work and allow the Prime Minister to deliver on his promise . I absolutely trust the Prime Minister ' s commitment to ensure that we can stop the boat . I believe that the Rwanda policy can be a deterrent to people . if their expectation be that they will not succeed and they do not have a right to remain in the United Kingdom , they will not pay their money to a person who promise they can succeed . I be grateful to my learn colleague for put forward their opinion . if that have show I anything , it be that lawyer like to talk and argue , and it be in their interest to do so , so we can not pass a bill that enable lawyer to bat case around indefinitely and allow appeal to be lodge — enough to make the policy ineffective . my constituent find it ludicrous that they elect member to come to this place and act in their interest , yet we do not seem to be able to do that . I think the small boat trade be raise with I on the doorstep more than any other issue . it be an evil practice on so many level . these be people make money from other ' misery , and they be put life at risk . as I have say before , it be perverse , because a fair and just asylum system should not be reliant on a person ' s ability to scramble thousand of mile — across a continent — and to pay people smuggler . it be absurd to any rational person . the hon . Lady say that the asylum system have limitation , but do she accept that the only way legally to claim asylum in the United Kingdom be to put foot on these shore ? there be no asylum visa , and the Government have not propose any new safe and legal route to allow people to come here . another absurdity that my constituent raise with I be that opposition party seem to speak for the right and interest of 8 billion in the world above the right of the people who elect we to serve here . I invite the hon . Lady to intervene again , because I do not ever hear a sensible limit . I will come to international development later in my remark , but undoubtedly , many more people would have the right under the current framework to claim asylum here than we could ever possibly hope to accept into the United Kingdom . do she have a number that she think would be acceptable ? at what point be this argument exhaust ? the hon . Lady ' s point be quite absurd . nobody be say , realistically , that 8 billion people be come to the UK . the vast majority of people who flee their country stay in a neighbouring country . they do not go any far because they want to return home . the UK take a very small percentage of that number , and those who come often do so to reunite with family and for safety , because there be people already here who can look after they and support they . I fundamentally disagree with the hon . Lady . Scotland do not have the same issue as many english place , and I do not think that Scotland have take its fair share of asylum seeker in recent month . globally , we need to look at a big reality . our responsibility in this place be to look forward . the Rwanda Bill will be a deterrent . if it succeed , it will put people off make those perilous journey and break the evil , perverse model of people smuggle . we need to look at the wide framework as well . I have an interesting visit to Washington last year , when I meet many people , include from the Word Bank . if anyone have not read its report last year on global migration trend that it anticipate over the come decade , I invite they to read it . we also meet the United States Agency for International Development . my profound belief be that the answer for the world be not to empty the less affluent bit into the stable , affluent bit . mathematically , if nothing else , that can not work . now be the moment for we to consider a much wide picture and to question the whole framework , much of it devise for a european issue 70 year ago . we live in a very different world . twenty year ago , information be not available to people live in develop country . the internet be not there . they have no idea how to get from point a to point b , who to pay , what to say and what to expect when they arrive . we be live in a totally different world . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment to deal with that . in December , he speak to the Fratelli d ' Italia conference in Rome , where he be quite clear , on break the business model of the criminal gang , that " if that require we to update our law and lead an international conversation to amend post - war framework around asylum , then we must do that . because if we don ' t fix this problem now , the boat will keep come and more life will be lose at sea . " I wholeheartedly agree . I be well know in Wolverhampton for tell my Labour council to get a move on , and on this issue I turn my fire , briefly and in a friendly way , on the Prime Minister . he should get a move on . he should be lead that global conversation . it be one that so many country be ready to have . the United States be ready to have it , and most european country be look to our policy to see if it will work , they accept the mathematical and social reality , and that be what our constituent want . I will conclude , as I do not wish to speak at great length . I thank all colleague who be try to strengthen the Bill . I want it to be as robust as possible , because we need it to be fit for the crisis we face . it be a crisis and my constituent certainly want to see result , so I will support the amendment . I also want to put on record my wholehearte thank to the Prime Minister for his determination to sort this issue out . after Miriam Cates , Matt Warman will be the last Back - Bench speaker . the wind - up will begin after he sit down . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Jane Stevenson ) . she make a fantastic speech and get to grip with the heart of the issue . I rise to speak in support of the amendment in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . in particular , I want to speak to amendment 19 to 22 to clause 4 , in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Newark . take together , they will prevent individual migrant block their removal to Rwanda by use the UK court to make claim over month and even year . the Bill already block claim relate to the general safety of Rwanda in particular , but it do not stop individual challenge like those that stop the flight in June 2022 , which end up with the case that go to the Supreme Court last year . as draft , the Bill state that for an individual to avoid deportation , there must be compelling evidence that they would come to serious and irreversible harm if deport to Rwanda . that sound like a very high bar , but in reality all that would be require be a doctor ' s certificate certify mental health problem if they be take to Rwanda . indeed , that be what happen in June 2022 to a couple of dozen people sit on the flight on the tarmac . nothing in the Bill materially change that fact in term of individual claim . even if claim be eventually not accept , they still clog up the court . they can still end up on appeal and , as we have hear , that can be for a matter of year . the Government say last night that they will increase , I think by about 150 , the number of judge on the tribunal . all that show be that the Government expect a large number of individual claim . if the Bill , as draft , block individual claim as the Government suggest , why would they need additional judge to move through the court ? the question raise by my right hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) , about where the judge would come from and what impact that would have on our wide court system , be very valid . if individual claim clog up the court for month or even year , then even if they be not ultimately successful they will automatically weaken the deterrent effect of the Bill . the whole purpose of the Rwanda plan be to be a deterrent , and deterrent only work if the same action be always follow by a consistent response . it be the same with the criminal justice system and the same with parenting . effective deterrent be by definition fair , because they treat everybody equally . some of those oppose the amendment be normally highly in favour of equality . the amendment make it equal : everybody who arrive here illegally will be detain and deport . that be how we create an effective deterrent . I readily admit that the Government have make progress and I warmly welcome all the progress that have be make : the deal with Albania , the upstream work with Bulgaria , and the attempt to help the french prevent more boat from launch in the first place . but to actually stop the boat , which be the Prime Minister ' s pledge and the pledge we as a party have make to our constituent , migrant in Calais and the international criminal gang must know beyond doubt that anyone arrive illegally in the UK will swiftly be detain and deport . my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East be absolutely right ; criminal gang and migrant have smartphone . they can tell instantly which route be available , where the boat be , how much they have to pay , what different country ' asylum system look like and what different country ' benefit system look like . they have an instant trade in information . a deterrent can only work if everyone know beyond doubt that that be exactly what will happen to everyone who land on our shore . I commend my hon . friend for all the work that she have be do in this regard . do she agree that the reason we need to strengthen these clause — this be why I will support the amendment — be that the whole purpose of the majority of people who come here illegally be to claim asylum in order to prevent the possibility of deportation ? the Home Office ' s own figure show that when that process have happen , 70 % of those people abscond . we need to stop that now . I entirely agree . the problem be that Britain have become know as a soft touch , partly because of the delay in our court , partly because of the generosity that have lead to the housing of migrant in hotel , and partly because our acceptance rate be very high compare with those in other country . if the Bill be to serve as an effective deterrent , we must remove the limitation of the current scheme by ensure that everyone who arrive here illegally be swiftly detain and then deport . the amendment argue that individual migrant should not be able to make suspensive claim — they should not be able , in british court , to claim against deportation — but should retain those right when they arrive in Rwanda . we be not talk about remove those individual right to claim asylum , or even to be send back to the UK in some circumstance . however , it be essential for that process to happen offshore , in the third country of Rwanda , because it be the deportation that be the deterrent . that be why the amendment be so necessary for all individual , except those who be unfit to fly or in respect of whom obvious mistake have be make . of course they should not be put on plane to Rwanda , but the amendment would make it consistent for all other to be send there . as I have say , the point of this be a deterrent , but there be strong opposition to the amendment — on the Opposition Benches , obviously , but also among many on these Benches . let I draw their attention to a poll publish last night in the Telegraph , which show that in nearly every constituency swift detention and deportation be the most popular way of deal with illegal immigration . it be the preferred option for a large proportion of the general public . while various interpretation of international law and its application may be strongly contest in Westminster , as we have hear today , the need for secure border be not a contested idea in the country as a whole . the british people be generous and compassionate . they support manage scheme to welcome refugee , as we have see over the past few year . however , when they see ten of thousand of mostly able - bodied young man come from France , which be a safe country , take physical risk to cross the world ' s busy shipping lane in dinghy , and then be house in hotel at great expense to taxpayer — and when they see some of those people abscond and some commit horrific crime , and then hear Westminster commentator say that because of international convention we can not deport they — they ask , " be you serious ? " be we , indeed , serious in say that we can not do that ? Most ordinary people in this country do not lie awake at night worry about our standing among elite international lawyer . they lie awake at night worry about security , crime and the cost of housing , all the issue that be make significantly bad by the abuse of our asylum and immigration system — because , without doubt , our system be be abuse , and will continue to be abuse unless the Bill be strengthen to limit those suspensive claim so that all the people arrive on our shore illegally be treat in the same way , and be detain and deport . the fact be that weakness be always exploit . that be a sad fact of history and human nature , and those who do not believe it be , I be afraid , naive . we must deal with the reality . my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) put it very well : many of we would behave in exactly the same way in these circumstance , if we see what be available in the UK and compare it to a life in another country , and if we know that it be easy to come here , tie up the court for a long time and , potentially , abscond . many would do the same , because that be human nature . the reality be what we have to deal with . this be a matter of responsibility . the responsibility of the British Government be the safety and welfare of the british people . it be not our responsibility to rehouse everybody in the world who would like to leave their own country and come to ours . we can absolutely sympathise with their plight as individual , but it be simply unrealistic to say that the UK have a responsibility to any asylum seeker anywhere in the world who would like to come here . we have a responsibility for our constituent ; other government have a responsibility for theirs . if they be not engage with that responsibility correctly , that be not our fault . would my hon . friend agree that a focus on foreign aid and a united effort — [ interruption . ] I thank the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) for shout at I . do my hon . friend agree that there should be a united focus on help safe develop country to benefit from give these people asylum ? they could make good life there , with education and good prospect for their child . that be the way forward rather than this mass influx into the UK . I agree with my hon . friend , who of course be right . one of the many solution to this problem be to improve condition in some of the country from which people be flee , but we also have to be realistic . we can not solve all the problem in the world . we be speak about illegal migration , but there be also ethical issue with legal migration . take large number of well - train , well - educate young people from develop country into our NHS and our workforce be not help the country that they be leave . the ethic of the whole immigration debate need careful scrutiny in both direction . I shall come back to my point . yes , we should be compassionate and yes , we need well - manage scheme for take refugee , but it be not the responsibility of the British Government to rehouse everybody in the world who would like to come here . that do not mean that we do not have sympathy for the plight of individual , but the definition of responsibility and accountability matter , and our responsibility be first and foremost to our constituent and the welfare of those in the UK . I support these amendment and I will be vote for they tonight because the Bill must work . it must work to provide an effective deterrent ; it must work to secure our border ; it must work to prevent people smuggling ; and it must work to show the british people that their elect representative really do take their concern seriously . after Matt Warman we will have the ministerial response , then Alison Thewliss will make reference to her amendment , and then we be expect multiple vote . I want to begin by talk about the remarkable contribution of my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) , to whose amendment I wish to speak . in a constituency such as mine , which vote overwhelmingly for Brexit , the work that he have do over many decade be appreciate , and it be something that have serve the national interest , so I be somewhat nervous about criticise amendment 10 . none the less , I know that he and I , more than anything else , can disagree courteously , which be perhaps more than I and many other have manage with some Brexiteers who have perhaps get too much credit for a project that have now run its course . I could talk a little about why I worry that a Bill that be already judge to have a 50 : 50 chance of success could , in the pursuit of toughen it up , be drive to have a far less chance of success . the people who say that they want it to work , and to work quickly , in fact run the risk of drive it into the court , see it fail and see we as a party take less of the action that be so clearly in the national interest . have look at my amendment carefully , have my hon . friend observe that the only way to guarantee that this Bill will be satisfactorily regard by the court be if the sovereignty of an Act of Parliament be combine with clear , unambiguous word that improve the Bill ? that do not mean that it will not go through ; it mean that it will go through and the court will accept it . I would agree with my hon . friend that the Bill could go through , but that do not guarantee legal success , as he know . he be right to say that there be a respectable legal argument to be make for it , but a respectable legal argument do not guarantee success . I want , not least because of the poll that he and other have cite , to see we take clear and effective action on this . to be successful , that clear and effective action must be able to survive the potential legal challenge . I argue in favour of the tightrope on which the Government be walk not because I lack conviction but because I want to see action as quickly as possible on an issue that , I hear from my constituent day in , day out , have a clear and real impact on their life . only yesterday , the Home Office announce that it be close another two hotel in my constituency that be be use to house asylum seeker . the global migration crisis be on the doorstep of constituent in Boston and Skegness , which be why we must tackle it effectively . I will take no lecture from anyone in this Committee on my personal commitment to tackle this issue , and I want the Government to stay on the tightrope and to get on with address this vital matter . I fear the signal that amendment 10 would send , as it would mean this country be able to ignore more of the european convention on human right , more of the refugee convention and more of a whole host of international agreement . surely , have help to write those agreement 70 year ago , this country have a duty , as my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Jane Stevenson ) say , to see they reform and improve . Spain , Germany , Italy and France do not think the refugee convention be work for they either , and I do not think it be work for this country or for my constituency . I want to see it reform and improve because , more than anything , the refugee convention be not work for refugee . the role of this great country surely should be to stay at the table and to work within a global system . the ECHR , the refugee convention and a whole host of other international agreement need to be well , and we have already see some positive reform , but we could see more if we stay at the table . if we say those rule should not apply to we , we would be send a signal that we be step back from that conversation . we would be say that we be resile rather than want to see reform . we would be say that we want to back out rather than back ourselves in have a place in the world and a place at the table . I hope my hon . Friend notice that I say that change to the European Union ' s charter of fundamental right and the European Court of Human Rights will ultimately lead to constitutional referenda and amendment , which would not only take a long time but might be impossible . I fear that some of what my hon . friend say be correct , but it be also true that we lessen our ability to make that case , on our own behalf and in the global interest , if we step back . I want to see Britain lead that conversation and take its place at the table . if we can do that , we will be able to construct a global system today , just as we do 70 year ago . it work then , and we need a system that work now . the more we send a signal that say Britain be step back , the less we have the right to make the case , and make that case be surely in the interest of all our constituent . my hon . friend be right that it will take a long time , but he surely have to acknowledge that we must have that long - term view , because this global migration crisis will be with we for decade . if we step back , we will have less right to influence that conversation . I thank my hon . friend and near constituency neighbour for give way . I be sure his constituent be in the same frame of mind as mine on how illegal migration be have a detrimental effect on our community . do he agree that that be why it be so important for we to be able to have these wide discussion , and for the Government to take our amendment seriously ? it be only by have robust discussion on the option and amendment that we want the Government to consider that , internationally , we can get to the place he talk about . I agree up to a point , but the Government can go only so far before they lessen their chance of get the Bill through successfully in term of potential future legal challenge . this be about the practicality of deliver a Bill and about Britain ' s place on the world stage , which should allow we to continue to play a lead role in reform those vital convention and international agreement . do the Bill work ? do it go as far as it can without fundamentally jeopardise its chance of legal success ? yes , it do . it walk a tightrope . I know that my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) say that there be legal advice support his position , and I would like to see it , as I be sure the Government would . however , that practical issue of whether the Bill can work be a tightrope that the Government have to judge . I accept that the Bill go as far as it can — for I , in some way , it go too far . some conservative Members have say that it go too far for they but that they be prepared to support it because of the importance of the issue . beyond that , we need to address Britain ' s place in the world and our role : our ability to help shape a new set of convention that work not just for we or for country that share our value and share this problem , but for the country that people be flee from . we have an opportunity to reform that global system and we lessen our ability to do so if we say that we be able to stand apart from its rule . that be a balance we can strike , and if we be optimistic about Britain ' s future place in the world , we should be say that we stay at that table , not that we resile from it . that be why I will support the Government in seek to rebuff the amendment and to get on with address this vital issue , because it will establish Britain as a country that be commit to those commitment that we make some time ago and help to draw up . it will also demonstrate that we be committed to go as far as possible in pursuit of challenge a vital issue that affect all our constituent . I look forward to the Government ' s win the vote this evening . what a great pleasure it be to follow my hon . friend the Member for Boston and Skegness ( Matt Warman ) . I believe it be the second time I have do so on this Bill , and I will try to emulate his courteous exchange with colleague . I enjoy his exchange with my hon . friend the Member for Stone ( Sir William Cash ) and with his near neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) , because it be with such courtesy that we can still have a robust discussion about this vital issue . we have have a wide - range debate and I be grateful to all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution . as the hon . member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) have the lead amendment , I start by make some overarch remark in response to her amendment . this House have a fundamental choice : we can legislate , as the Government propose , to end the perilous journey be make across the channel , by enable Parliament to confirm that , in the light of the treaty that the Home Secretary sign on 5 December and of the update evidence , the Republic of Rwanda be a safe third country , or we can put into statute a scheme that be rive with hole by amendment table by right hon . and hon . opposition member that make the Bill simply unworkable . the new legally bind treaty with the Government of the Republic of Rwanda do respond to the concern set out by the Supreme Court . it also reflect the strength of the Government of Rwanda ' s protection and commitment , both to this scheme and to the rule of law — I will return to that point later in my speech . let there be no doubt that our Government be focus and determine to stop the boat . we have make progress , but we must be enable to finish the job . clause 2 create a conclusive presumption that the Secretary of State , immigration officer , and court and tribunal must start from the basis that Rwanda be safe . it be right to say that it will not send someone to another country in breach of the refugee convention . the Supreme Court ' s rule on the Rwanda policy recognise that change could be deliver in the future that could address the conclusion they come to , and we have be work closely with Rwanda to address those issue . when consider together , the treaty and the evidence of the change in Rwanda since the summer of 2022 — I will come back to that evidence in relation to point pick up by right hon . and hon . member during the debate — mean that we can confidently conclude that Rwanda be a safe country . if Rwanda be a safe and secure place in which asylum seeker can live comfortable and productive life , why should the prospect of be send there be a deterrent ? the deterrent be because they be seek to come to this country and not Rwanda . I hope the hon . Gentleman listen to the evidence that I be about to set out . he have sit through a fair amount of the debate and I always enjoy take intervention from he , so I encourage he to consider the evidence as I progress with my remark . on that point , will the Minister give way ? how could I refuse ? as he hear , I make reference to the Rwanda judgment and the case of ASM , whose claim be dismiss because of the sovereignty of Parliament in the context of immigration law that be revoke under the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 . that be a perfect example of what the court will do under paragraph 144 of the judgment . do he accept that it be the sovereignty of Parliament that lead the Court to make that decision , as it itself state ? as my hon . friend know , he and I agree on a great deal and I have paragraph 144 engrave on my heart . we have have a number of exchange about that paragraph , and it be clear that the Court will not disregard an unambiguous expression of Parliament ' s intention , as set out in paragraph 144 . I will come back to the comment make by my hon . friend a little later in my speech . since the evidential position consider by the court in summer 2022 , there have be far specific information , evidence and assurance from the Government of Rwanda that explicitly address the challenge raise by the claimant and the UNHCR in the litigation , and the finding of the Supreme Court , follow its judgment in November . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) mention the evidence and the importance of look at it , so it be worth set out some of that here , at least in outline . first , let I set out the headline from the world ranking . the World Economic Forum global gender gap report rank Rwanda 12th in the world for gender parity . interestingly , it rank the UK 15th . secondly , Rwanda ' s overall score in the World Justice Project ' s rule of law have increase consistently from 2019 and 2023 , and Rwanda rank first in its region and 41st out of 142 globally . I will come back to that important point and provide more detail . the World Bank score Rwanda 16 out of a maximum score of 18 . that be just some of the evidence . the Government publish a policy note on the date of Second Reading and it have be update this month . there be country information note on Rwanda ' s human right and asylum system , and on the evidence provide by the Government of Rwanda and the UNHCR . a lot of that evidence be substantial and helpful , but we have not cherry pick evidence , unlike some member . other material have also be publish . it be worth consider that evidence because that be what have change since summer 2022 . perhaps I be be facetious , but see as so many illegal migrant be flee France , should we think about a safety of France Act next ? my hon . friend might have be a touch facetious in her intervention — she herself say it , otherwise I would not have dare to say it — but I understand what she say . suffice to say , we be confident in the safety of Rwanda and the aim of the Bill be to prevent domestic court and tribunal from consider claim that relate to the general safety of Rwanda , hence clause 2 and the point raise by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon about the evidence , the treaty and the fundamentally change situation . let I turn to the hon . member for Glasgow Central and her amendment . she be right that the amendment seek to undermine the core objective of the Bill . indicate assent . the hon . Lady have be straightforward about that ; she be nod . we be agree yet again during the course of these exchange . it will do nothing for her street credibility in her constituency , but we be agree at least on that point . her amendment would undermine the provision aim at narrow the ground on which people can challenge their removal to Rwanda in court or tribunal . the treaty agree by both country make it crystal clear that asylum seeker send to Rwanda be not at risk of be return to a country where their life or freedom would be threaten — know as refoulement . article 10 ( 3 ) spell that out very clearly . we therefore do not accept that there be any risk of refoulement give that article , give those reassurance and give the treaty . this point also relate to amendment 35 and 37 , table by the Opposition . I remind Opposition Members that the Government of Rwanda , the African Union and the UNHCR have sign an agreement to continue the operation of the emergency transit mechanism centre in Rwanda . by temporarily accommodate some of the most vulnerable refugee population who have face trauma , detention and violence , Rwanda have showcase its willingness and its ability collaboratively to provide solution to the refugee situation and to crisis . the policy statement that be publish by the Government set out further evidence on that very point , and it might be worth dwell on that for a moment or two . in November 2021 , the Government of Rwanda set out the detail of the emergency transit mechanism . the agreement have attract EU funding , which will support the operation of the ETM until 2026 . on 9 February , the EU announce a € 22 million support package for the scheme , which the European Union ambassador describe as a " crucial life - save initiative to evacuate people face major threat and inhumane condition in Libya to safety in Rwanda . it be a significant example of african solidarity and of partnership with the European Union . " he continue : " we be grateful to the Government of Rwanda for host these man , woman and child until such time , durable solution can be find . " that be further evidence of the safety of Rwanda — not in the future but now — and further evidence for the hundred of thousand of refugee that Rwanda be welcome and already host , and that it have over the year . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) for table his amendment . I listen intently as he speak . the Bill allow the decision maker to consider whether the Republic of Rwanda be a safe country for the person in question only when the individual have present compelling evidence relate specifically to their individual circumstance , and only when their claim do not relate to the risk of onward removal from Rwanda . we all share my right hon . friend ' s desire on this , but there be already a high bar , both legally and evidentially , for make a successful individual claim , and clause 4 set that out . if people try to use this route without compelling evidence , they will have their claim dismiss by the Home Office and be remove . my right hon . friend mention people concoct and fabricate evidence , but , of course , that be the exact opposite of compelling evidence . concocted evidence can not amount to compelling evidence . it can not be merely a bare assertion ; it can not even simply be a tweet , as he set out . I be grateful to the hon . member for Delyn ( Mr Roberts ) for his amendment , his exchange and engagement and his constructive remark . he be the first out of the block to get an amendment in . I be grateful to he for the way he set out amendment 1 . we do assess that Rwanda be safe for those be relocate there for the reason that I have give , but the term of the treaty that we have negotiate with Rwanda address the finding of our domestic court and make specific provision for the treatment of relocate individual , guarantee their safety and protection . the implementation of those provision in practice will be keep under review , exactly as he ask for . the independent monitoring committee , whose role be enhance by the treaty , will look at it and ensure compliance with the obligation agree . I also say to the hon . Gentleman that it be worth consider article 4 of the treaty , because that mean that in many scenario , as be already the case , the Government can and will adapt and respond as necessary . on his other amendment , it be right that an individualised claim can not be consider to the extent that it relate to whether Rwanda will , or may , remove or send the person in question to another state in contravention of its international obligation . that be already there , and there be only an extremely limited route for individual challenge . however , remove judicial oversight until after a person have be remove to Rwanda in its totality and prevent interim relief even if they can show — however unlikely — a real , imminent and foreseeable risk be unlikely to be compatible with convention right . it be important to note that just this week — in fact , last night — the House pass legislation to add India and Georgia to the list of safe country to which we will be able to return national with no right to be here . it be also worth point out that the Labour party be so divided on this that they could not even agree among themselves that India and Georgia be generally safe country . it be no wonder that they can not formulate an immigration policy . I turn to some of the evidence from the World Justice Project ' s rule of law index 2023 , which mention Rwanda . in fact , it list 142 country , from Denmark at no . 1 all the way down to the bottom . it be important to note that Georgia appear at No . 48 on the list and India at no . 79 . the House have already pass legislation confirm that they be safe country . on India , Jagtar Singh Johal have now be detain for over six year . be the Minister say that India be a safe country for every UK national ? no , I be say that this House pass legislation last night state that India be generally a safe country for the purpose set out in the legislation . I point out — I be grateful to he and other hon . member who be listen — that India happen to be 79th in the global ranking . Vietnam , where we regularly return citizen to , be 87th . Albania , which we have mention and I will come back to , be 91st , and Rwanda be 41st on that list . it be marginally low down the ranking than Poland , comparable to Romania and high than Croatia , Greece , Bulgaria , Hungary and all these other country that be safe , strong international partner of this country . that be the evidence that have be publish and that be before the House , and that evidence show compellingly that Rwanda be a safe country . I turn to amendment 19 , 20 , 21 and 22 and amendment 10 . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) for his engagement and remark — he be absolutely right . he set out the moral imperative that we need to act and limit individual claim , and I agree that we need to focus on what work . as I say early , I agree with much of what my hon . friend the Member for Stone say . he be right about dualism and sovereignty . we may , indeed , debate sovereignty again tomorrow when we come to clause 1 . there be a lovely accord between he and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon on the very point of sovereignty , and doubtless we will debate that again . where I respectfully disagree with my hon . friend the Member for Stone be in his assessment of whether the Bill will work . as draft , this legislation be clear and unambiguous . Parliament be set out the law clearly and it will work . I merely repeat the point that parliamentary sovereignty have to be combine with clear and unambiguous word . the word " notwithstanding " be hallowed ; it be in the withdrawal agreement of 2020 and it make the wording absolutely clear . otherwise it be not clear and the court could rule against we — as they do , conversely , on the Rwanda judgment , where they agree that clear and unambiguous word be necessary and essential with regard to claim under matter relate to this Bill . I be grateful for the intervention , and I agree with my hon . friend : he be absolutely right about clear and unambiguous language . however , clause 2 as draft be clear and unambiguous ; if I may say so , it be simply a different way of say the same thing . either we have a deeming clause that deem Rwanda to be safe , or a notwithstanding clause . clause 2 have the joy of both a deeming clause and a notwithstanding clause . it be clear , it be unambiguous and the court will follow it . my right hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) passionately believe that this be the right policy , and I agree with that . he mention that it be important to tackle the root cause and that we must not allow this evil trade to persist , and I agree with he entirely . he ask about the court and the tribunal , as do the Chair of the Select Committee — the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) — and my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Miriam Cates ) . a write ministerial statement be lay early today , and I encourage my right hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland to consider the detail of it . he be right that more judge be be recruit . it be important to say that deployment of the judiciary be of course a question for the independent judiciary — that be absolutely right — but more be be identify and train , and I encourage my right hon . friend and other right hon . and hon . member who mention that to look out for the Lord Chancellor ' s write ministerial statement , publish today . will the Minister clarify whether , if the Government can , as report in the Times and the Daily Telegraph , find as many as 150 extra judge , we could perhaps divert that judicial capacity to prosecute some alleged rapist and murderer here in the United Kingdom ? will he clarify and exemplify what he mean and whether those report be true ? my hon . friend be right and I sense , understand and share her passion for resolve the issue in relation not only to the tribunal but to the court . I know her background and passion for ensure that the backlog in the court system be deal with , and she know my position on that as well . I encourage she to look at the detail that the Lord Chancellor set out in the write ministerial statement . it be right to say that it be in response to the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which my right hon . friend the Member for Newark and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) take through the House , and it be right to say that it be there to ensure capacity in our tribunal system . I entirely agree with my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( Miss Dines ) — there be an exchange on this in the debate — that we must ensure that that capacity be there in our court system as well . before the Minister move on from the contribution of the right hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) , I intervene in his speech to say that my opinion be that if the Bill be vote down tomorrow on Third Reading , no similar Bill could be bring back because it would be an issue the House have already deal with . the right hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland be of the opinion that a substantially different Bill could be bring back . the problem be that if the House decline all the amendment , as it be entirely likely to do , presumably any future Bill that be bring back would include all those amendment . therefore , as the House will have substantially deal with all those issue , if the Bill be vote down tomorrow , it will not be able to come back in any form . the hon . Gentleman will appreciate my determination to get the Bill through . I be the Minister for this Bill , and I be determined to get it through today , tomorrow and at its further stage . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Jane Stevenson ) for her constructive speech and the constructive tone that she adopt during the debate . she be right : we be unite in want to make the scheme work . I be very grateful to she for mention the Prime Minister ' s word in Italy , which bear repetition . he say rightly : " if we do not tackle this problem , the number will only grow … if that require we to update our law and lead an international conversation to amend the post - war framework around asylum , then we must do that . because if we don ' t fix this problem now , the boat will keep come " . my hon . friend be right to echo those word , and I be pleased to have the opportunity to re - emphasise they now . it have be explain that the ground for individual appeal be exceptionally narrow , so why be 150 judge need ? as I say in response to a previous intervention , they be be stand up in relation to the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which be take through by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham and my right hon . friend the Member for Newark , in anticipation of the work that will need to be do — that be sensible governance , dare I say it . my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) be right to take I back to individual claim , which I will now turn to in the few minute I have leave . the legislation provide that a court may grant interim relief only where there be " a real , imminent and foreseeable risk of serious and irreversible harm " . there must be credible evidence of that ; there can not simply be a bare assertion . clause 4 ( 5 ) cite the Illegal Migration Act , which my right hon . friend take through last summer . it be worth point out that section 39 of that Act set out an extremely narrow range of circumstance in which an individual claim can be make . I encourage right hon . and hon . member on both side of the Committee to look at section 39 of that Act and just how high the threshold for serious and irreversible harm be set . let I turn briefly to new clause 6 , which be table by Opposition Members . I be intrigue to hear the shadow Minister state that the purpose of the new clause be to invite further legal challenge . that seem to be labour ' s plan — to invite further legal challenge . that be the purpose of new clause 6 , and it be the exact opposite of the purpose of Conservative Members . we want this to work . the Minister be simply misrepresent the purpose of new clause 6 . its purpose be to put the monitoring committee on a statutory footing so that it can potentially be subject to our domestic court . I do not know whether he think that our domestic court should be low down the pecking order than the court of Rwanda . I be grateful to the shadow Minister for his intervention . when he be set the policy out in his opening remark , he say that it would invite further legal challenge . those of we on the Conservative Benches want to shut out legal challenge ; those on the Opposition Benches want to encourage further legal challenge . the Government have deliver a plan for immigration that will work . it build upon the excellent work of my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) — the champion of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 — and of my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham , who work incredibly hard to deliver the long - await Illegal Migration Act , the tough piece of immigration legislation until the Bill before we . just look at Albania . our successful deal with Albania , which start with small number , have now remove nearly 6 , 000 people with no right to be here . we know that deterrence have work because small boat arrival from Albania be down by 94 % . legal challenge have not successfully stop the flight to Albania . those flight have not be stop ; in fact , not a single case of albanian small boat arrival have reach a substantive hearing at the upper tribunal in the past year . we on the conservative side of the Committee be unite in our determination to ensure that the Bill work . as draft , it create an ever - tight test than for illegal migrant face removal to Albania . our Rwanda Bill be tough , tight and go far . we have a plan to stop the boat , and I invite hon . member to back it . what a despondent , pathetic , ridiculous Bill this have be , and what a grim debate it have be to listen to . we have hear a wide range of speech , most of which , I be afraid to say — I be put it politely — be absolute guff . the UK be not look to accommodate 8 billion people — of course it be not . Most people in small boat be not economic migrant ; we know that , because the Home Office grant they asylum . the only Member , I believe , who mention the people whom this Bill will affect be my friend the hon . member for Sheffield , Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) , who talk about the impact it will have on real people , on their life and their future . as far as I can establish , not one of the Conservative Members have ever meet or speak to an asylum seeker , or have any conception of the struggle they have be through , because they be not able to cite a single one sit opposite they in their surgery . asylum seeker have do they no personal harm , yet they seek to ruin their life . to make it light for a second , my hon . friend the Member for Inverclyde ( Ronnie Cowan ) , who end up be crock at the refugee football tournament he play in , do not bear any ill will towards the asylum seeker who play in that game . I think he mostly bear ill will towards I for force he to play in it , not the asylum seeker and refugee whose silky skill outclass we on the football pitch . I encourage member who want to learn a little bit more to sign up for the refugee football tournament , which will be come up before we know it . the UNHCR do not buy the Government ' s assurance . it have be very clear that nothing that have be say or do have change the situation . the UNHCR say that the Rwanda partnership treaty be not compatible with international refugee law , and that we can not declare Rwanda a safe country in perpetuity . I do not believe that we should be declare any country a safe country in perpetuity , as my hon . friend the Member for West Dunbartonshire ( Martin Docherty - Hughes ) say in relation to India , where Jagtar Singh Johal be still be hold in arbitrary detention with no effort from this Government to see justice do for he . this scheme fail in many respect . it be an affront to human right , to the dignity of individual and human being , and to the international obligation that this Government have claim they hold dear — they ask other country to abide by international convention and rule , yet undermine those rule when it suit they . there be a practicality issue as well . the Independent have just publish some figure that the Committee may find interesting . over the past five year , Rwanda have assess only 421 asylum case in total , and have refuse two third of those case . many of those people be from Afghanistan and Syria , and have an indisputable case for their asylum claim to be hear . we know that Rwanda have form in not uphold its obligation : when it have a deal with Israel , it do not uphold those obligation , and nobody have give any evidence that anything have change since the Supreme Court ' s rule on this issue last year . turn to the issue of deterrence , which many Conservative Members have mention , 70 , 000 people have cross the channel since the Rwanda deal be sign . if that deal be any kind of deterrent , it would have have some kind of effect , would it not ? that have not happen , and in any event , this Government seek to remove to Rwanda only a couple of hundred people out of that 70 , 000 . they be absolutely incompetent in bring this Bill before we today . it be a toxic distraction from a fail Home Office and a fail government . they should do the work , process the case , and give refugee and asylum seeker the dignity and safety that they so richly deserve . question put , that the amendment be make . Hannah Bardell Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Edward Davey Martyn Day Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Sarah Green Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Stewart Hosie Christine Jardine Ben Lake Chris Law David Linden Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Helen Morgan John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Jamie Stone Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Peter Grant Gavin Newlands Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Nadhim Zahawi Mark Fletcher Robert Largan the Committee divide : Ayes 66 , Noes 337 . question accordingly negative . Amendment propose : 10 , in clause 2 , page 3 , line 13 , leave out subsection ( 5 ) and insert — " ( 5a ) this Act and the Illegal Migration Act 2023 will have effect in relation to removal to Rwanda notwithstanding — ( a ) any provision make by or under the Immigration act , ( b ) the Human Rights Act 1998 , ( c ) EU derive law and case law retain under section 2 to 7 of the European Union ( Withdrawal ) Act 2018 , ( d ) any other provision or rule of domestic law ( include any common law ) , and ( e ) international law , include any interpretation of international law by the court or tribunal . ( 5b ) nothing identify in paragraph ( a ) to ( e ) of subsection ( 5A ) may prevent or delay the removal to Rwanda of an individual under this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , or affect the interpretation or application of any provision of this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , include the action or policy of public authority , in relation to the removal of a person to Rwanda . ( 5c ) to the extent that any provision or requirement include in paragraph ( a ) to ( e ) of subsection ( 5A ) have be give effect to in legislation ( include the Asylum and Immigration Appeals Act 1993 , the Nationality , Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 and the Asylum and Immigration ( Treatment of Claimants etc ) Act 2004 ) , that legislation do not apply in relation to provision make by or by virtue of this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 in relation to the removal of an individual to Rwanda , and shall not prevent or delay the removal to Rwanda of an individual under this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . ( 5D ) a person or body to which subsection ( 5e ) apply may not have regard to international law , in the circumstance mention in subsection ( 5 g ) . ( 5e ) this subsection apply to — ( a ) the Secretary of State or an immigration officer when exercise any function relate to remove , or consider for removal a person to Rwanda under this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 , ( b ) a court or tribunal when consider any application or appeal which relate to a decision or purport decision to remove , or to consider the removal of a person to Rwanda under this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 . ( 5F ) no inference be to be draw from this section as to whether or not a person or body mention in subsection ( 5e ) would otherwise have be require to have regard to international law . ( 5 g ) the Asylum and Immigration Appeals Act 1993 be amend as follow . ( 5h ) in section 2 at the end insert " except in relation to the removal of a person to Rwanda under the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 and the Illegal Migration Act 2023 " . " — ( Sir William Cash . ) this amendment specifically exclude the legislation raise in AAA v Secretary of State of the Home Department [ 2023 ] UKSC 42 as potential block to removal and exclude from consideration any international law ( include the echr and anything put out by its court ) . question put , that the amendment be make . Adam Afriyie Lee Anderson Sarah Atherton Scott Benton Jake Berry Bob Blackman Ben Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Gregory Campbell Bill Cash Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Philip davy Sarah Dines Jeffrey M . Donaldson Richard Drax James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Michael Fabricant Nicholas Fletcher Kevin Foster Mark Francois Paul Girvan Chris Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis John Hayes Darren Henry Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Jones Danny Kruger Andrew Lewer Carla Lockhart Marco Longhi Jonathan Lord Craig Mackinlay Karl McCartney Robin Millar Anne Marie Morris Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Ian Paisley Jnr Tom Randall John Redwood Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Gary Sambrook Jim Shannon Greg Smith Henry Smith Jane Stevenson Desmond Swayne Elizabeth Truss Bill Wiggin Sammy Wilson Jacob Rees - Mogg Miriam Cates Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Lucy Allan Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Jon Ashworth Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Hannah Bardell Paula Barker John Baron Simon Baynes Apsana Begum Aaron Bell Hilary Benn Paul Beresford Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Ben Bradshaw Graham Brady Kevin Brennan Steve Brine Sara Britcliffe Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Chris Bryant Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Rob Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alun Cairns Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Andy Carter James Cartlidge Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Jo Churchill Feryal Clark Greg Clark Theo Clarke Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Robert Courts Ronnie Cowan Geoffrey Cox Neil Coyle Stephen Crabb Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton James Daly Edward Davey Wayne David David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Dehenna Davison Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Caroline Dinenage Samantha Dixon Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Michelle Donelan Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Steve Double Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Oliver Dowden Flick Drummond Rosie Duffield David Duguid Philip Dunne Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Mark Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Ruth Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson George Eustice Chris Evans Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Tim Farron Stephen Farry Simon Fell Marion Fellows Anna Firth Colleen Fletcher Katherine Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Ford Yvonne Fovargue Liam Fox Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Patricia Gibson Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Patrick Grady Richard Graham Helen Grant Peter Grant James Gray Chris Grayling damian Green Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Robert Halfon Luke Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Mark Harper Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Helen Hayes Oliver Heald John Healey James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Antony Higginbotham Meg Hillier Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kate Hollern Kevin Hollinrake Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt rupa Huq Imran Hussain Alister Jack Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Diana R . Johnson Gareth Johnson Kim Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Darren Jones Fay Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Marcus Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Simon Jupp Mike Kane Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Kate Kniveton Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy John Lamont Pauline Latham Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Emma Lewell - Buck Brandon Lewis Clive Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Simon Lightwood David Linden Chris Loder Mark Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Jack Lopresti Julia Lopez Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Esther McVey Ian Mearns Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Ed Miliband Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Carol Monaghan Damien Moore Robbie Moore layla Moran Penny Mordaunt Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan David Morris Grahame Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Ian Murray James Murray Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lisa Nandy Bob Neill Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Stephanie Peacock Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Andrew Percy Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Chris Philp Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Lucy Powell Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Anum Qaisar Jeremy Quin will Quince Yasmin Qureshi Dominic Raab Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Rob Roberts Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Lloyd Russell - Moyle David Rutley Liz Saville - Roberts Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Grant Shapps Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Alec Shelbrooke Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Chloe Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Royston Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Amanda Solloway John Spellar Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Gary Streeter Wes Streeting Mel Stride Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Zarah Sultana Rishi Sunak James Sunderland Robert Syms Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Derek Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Maggie Throup Stephen Timms Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Jon Trickett Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Shailesh Vara Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Christian Wakeford Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Nadia Whittome James Wild Craig Williams Hywel Williams Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Daniel Zeichner Mark Fletcher Robert Largan the Committee divide : Ayes 68 , Noes 529 . question accordingly negative . question put , that the clause stand part of the Bill . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Dominic Raab Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Fletcher Robert Largan Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Peter Grant Gavin Newlands the Committee divide : Ayes 331 , Noes 262 . question accordingly agree to . clause 2 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 4 - decision base on particular individual circumstance Amendment propose : 19 , page 4 , line 11 , leave out from " whether " to the end of line 14 and insert " and in what manner a person be to be remove , or consider for removal , to Rwanda under this Act or the Illegal Migration Act 2023 " . — ( Robert Jenrick . ) this and other amendment to clause 4 be intend to remove the ability of individual to block their own removal through suspensive claim and to limit such claim to rare situation where there be bad faith on the part of decision - maker in relation to decision as to medical fitness to travel . question put , that the amendment be make . Adam Afriyie Lee Anderson Sarah Atherton Scott Benton Jake Berry Bob Blackman Ben Bradley Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Bill Cash Christopher Chope Simon Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Philip davy Sarah Dines Richard Drax James Duddridge Iain Duncan Smith Michael Fabricant Nicholas Fletcher Mark Francois Chris Green James Grundy Jonathan Gullis John Hayes Darren Henry Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Eddie Hughes Tom Hunt Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson David Jones Danny Kruger Edward Leigh Andrew Lewer Marco Longhi Craig Mackinlay Karl McCartney Robin Millar Nigel Mills Anne Marie Morris Jill Mortimer Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Tom Randall John Redwood Laurence Robertson Gary Sambrook Greg Smith Henry Smith Jane Stevenson Desmond Swayne Elizabeth Truss Bill Wiggin Jacob Rees - Mogg Miriam Cates Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Bim Afolami Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Lucy Allan Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Jon Ashworth Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Hannah Bardell Paula Barker John Baron Simon Baynes Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Aaron Bell Hilary Benn Paul Beresford Clive Betts Saqib Bhatti Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Ben Bradshaw Graham Brady Kevin Brennan Steve Brine Sara Britcliffe Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Chris Bryant Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Rob Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alun Cairns Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Andy Carter James Cartlidge Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Jo Churchill Feryal Clark Greg Clark Theo Clarke Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Robert Courts Ronnie Cowan Geoffrey Cox Neil Coyle Stephen Crabb Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton James Daly Edward Davey Wayne David David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Dehenna Davison Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Caroline Dinenage Samantha Dixon Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Michelle Donelan Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Steve Double Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Oliver Dowden Flick Drummond Rosie Duffield David Duguid Philip Dunne Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Mark Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Ruth Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson George Eustice Chris Evans Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Tim Farron Stephen Farry Simon Fell Marion Fellows Anna Firth Colleen Fletcher Katherine Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Vicky Ford Yvonne Fovargue Liam Fox Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Patricia Gibson Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Patrick Grady Richard Graham Helen Grant Peter Grant James Gray Chris Grayling damian Green Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Robert Halfon Luke Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Mark Harper Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart Helen Hayes Oliver Heald John Healey James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Antony Higginbotham Meg Hillier Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kate Hollern Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt rupa Huq Imran Hussain Alister Jack Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Diana R . Johnson Gareth Johnson Kim Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Darren Jones Fay Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Marcus Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Simon Jupp Mike Kane Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Kate Kniveton Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy John Lamont Pauline Latham Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Emma Lewell - Buck Brandon Lewis Clive Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Simon Lightwood David Linden Chris Loder Mark Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Tim Loughton Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Alan Mak Seema Malhotra Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Jason McCartney Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Esther McVey Ian Mearns Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Ed Miliband Maria Miller Amanda Milling Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Carol Monaghan Damien Moore Robbie Moore layla Moran Penny Mordaunt Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan David Morris Grahame Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Ian Murray James Murray Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Lisa Nandy Bob Neill Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Caroline Nokes Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Stephanie Peacock Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Andrew Percy Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Chris Philp Luke Pollard Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Lucy Powell Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Anum Qaisar Jeremy Quin will Quince Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Rob Roberts Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Lloyd Russell - Moyle David Rutley Liz Saville - Roberts Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Grant Shapps Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Alec Shelbrooke Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq David Simmonds Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Chloe Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Royston Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Amanda Solloway John Spellar Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Gary Streeter Wes Streeting Mel Stride Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Zarah Sultana James Sunderland Robert Syms Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Derek Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Maggie Throup Stephen Timms Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Jon Trickett Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Shailesh Vara Valerie Vaz Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Christian Wakeford Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Nadia Whittome James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Mohammad Yasin Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Daniel Zeichner Mark Fletcher Robert Largan the Committee divide : Ayes 58 , Noes 525 . question accordingly negative . clause 4 - decision base on particular individual circumstance question put , that the clause stand part of the Bill . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Fletcher Robert Largan Diane Abbott Hannah Bardell Apsana Begum Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Steven Bonnar Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Douglas Chapman Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Martin Docherty Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patricia Gibson Patrick Grady Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Drew Hendry Stewart Hosie Ben Lake Chris Law David Linden Caroline Lucas Angus MacNeil John McNally Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Anum Qaisar Bell Ribeiro - Addy Liz Saville - Roberts Tommy Sheppard Alyn Smith Chris Stephens Zarah Sultana Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Claudia Webbe Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Pete Wishart Peter Grant Gavin Newlands the Committee divide : Ayes 330 , Noes 55 . question accordingly agree to . clause 4 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 6 - change to the classification of Rwanda as safe " ( 1 ) a Monitoring Committee oversee removal to Rwanda must be establish and maintain in accordance with article 15 of the Rwanda Treaty . ( 2 ) section 2 ( 1 ) of this Act do not apply if — ( a ) the Monitoring Committee establish under subsection ( 1 ) have formally conclude that the Republic of Rwanda be in breach of its obligation under that Treaty , ( b ) the Secretary of State have advise against travel to the Republic of Rwanda , or ( c ) if a court or tribunal have find the Republic of Rwanda to be unsafe in accordance with subsection ( 3 ) below . ( 3 ) on an application for judicial review , if a UK Senior Court determine that credible evidence exist that the Republic of Rwanda be no long safe on the basis of non - compliance with its obligation under the Rwanda Treaty , nothing in this Act shall prevent a court or tribunal from far consider an application for judicial review bring by an individual so affected . " — ( Stephen Kinnock . ) this new clause place the Monitoring Committee for the Rwanda Treaty on a statutory basis , and place condition on when the classification of Rwanda as ' safe ' can be suspend in accordance with material condition and / or non - compliance with obligation under the Rwanda Treaty . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Tim Farron Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Colleen Fletcher Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Margaret Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Neale Hanvey Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Mike Kane Barbara Keeley Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake David Lammy Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater Emma Lewell - Buck Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch Angus MacNeil Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Stewart McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Angela Rayner Steve Reed Christina Rees Ellie Reeves Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Liz Saville - Roberts Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Tommy Sheppard Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel John Spellar Keir Starmer Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Alison Thewliss Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Tonia Antoniazzi Gerald Jones Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Sarah Atherton Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay John Baron Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Karen Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Robert Courts Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Jeffrey M . Donaldson Michelle Donelan Steve Double Oliver Dowden Richard Drax Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Paul Girvan John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Stephen Hammond Matthew Hancock Greg Hands Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Chris Heaton - Harris Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Jeremy Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Bernard Jenkin Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Carla Lockhart Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Ian Paisley Jnr Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Laurence Robertson Gavin Robinson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Iain Stewart Gary Streeter Mel Stride Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Elizabeth Truss Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jeremy Wright Jacob Young Nadhim Zahawi Mark Fletcher Robert Largan the Committee divide : Ayes 262 , Noes 336 . question accordingly negative . the occupant of the Chair leave the Chair ( Programme Order , 12 December 2023 ) . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . progress report ; Committee to sit again tomorrow . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Immigration that the draft Immigration Act 2014 ( Residential Accommodation ) ( Maximum Penalty ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 15 November 2023 , be approve . — ( Ruth Edwards . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Immigration that the draft Immigration ( Employment of Adults subject to Immigration Control ) ( Maximum Penalty ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 15 November 2023 , be approve . — ( Ruth Edwards . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Council Tax that the draft Representation of the People ( Postal and Proxy Voting etc . ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 11 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Ruth Edwards . ) question agree to . Petition - Buy now , pay later product I rise to present a petition on behalf of the constituent of Linlithgow and East Falkirk in relation to buy now , pay later product . use correctly , those product can be fantastic , but 37 % of UK adult have use they in the past 12 month , and Citizens Advice have report an increase in people seek help as they be turn to they to support themselves through the cost of living crisis . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Linlithgow and East Falkirk , Declares that buy now , pay later product be become increasingly mainstream , with 37 % of adult in the IL use an unregulated credit product in the last 12 month , and with many of the most vulnerable people turn to these product to cope with the cost of living crisis ; far that Citizens Advice report an increase in people seek help with these product , with some face unmanageable debt and require food bank referral and other charitable support , and note that unregulate Buy now pay later product lack consumer safeguard , such as requirement for firm to carry out affordability check , bring lender under the oversight of the Financial Conduct Authority , and ensure borrower can take complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement regulation of buy now , pay later product as a matter of urgency , to prevent any more people fall into serious and unmanageable level of debt . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002893 ] Petition - Community Hospitals I rise to present a petition on behalf of the resident of the Axe valley , and the town of Seaton , Beer , Colyford and the surround area , who be object in the strong possible term to the disposal of an entire wing of Seaton Community Hospital . the petition have be sign by over 9 , 000 of my constituent , because they object to the fact that the hospital , which be fund by generous local donation , be be rip away from they , and in part potentially sell off by NHS Property Services , and dispose of for potential sale for housing . the petition state : the petition of resident of Axe Valley in the Tiverton and Honiton constituency , declare that community hospital play a vital role support health and wellbee in rural community ; far that the hospital in Seaton be build with active support and fundraising effort by resident across the Axe Valley ; and far that plan to turn the wing of the hospital building over to NHS Property Services put the future viability of the hospital at risk . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of petitioner and take action to return the facility to the local community , so it can be repurpose to provide well care for those live in the area . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002897 ] Petition - Defence Equipment and Support site in Beith I rise to present a petition on behalf of the constituent of North Ayrshire and Arran , who be deeply concerned by the ongoing industrial dispute at Defence Equipment and Support in Beith , North Ayrshire . it be an arm ' s length body of the Ministry of Defence . the strike for improved pay and condition be unprecedented , involve non - craft worker prepare arm for shipment at the depot , who face discrimination in the payment of bonus to worker . the petitioner be concerned that these bonus be withhold from worker earn less than £ 21 , 000 a year and have be exclude from retention bonus . the petitioner stand with the worker in rejection of a two - tier workforce . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of North Ayrshire and Arran , declare deep concern about the ongoing industrial dispute at Defence Equipment and Support in Beith , North Ayrshire ( an arm ' s - length body of the Ministry of Defence ) ; far that this strike , for improved pay and condition be unprecedented ; note that non - craft worker prepare arm for shipment at the depot face discrimination in the payment of bonus , relative to craft worker who assemble munition ; far that the petitioner reject the fact that retention payment be make to manager and craft worker , while non - craft worker earn less than £ 21 , 000 per year have be exclude from retention bonus and stand with the worker in reject a two - tier workforce . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and urgently intervene to ensure a fair resolution to the industrial dispute . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002898 ] cost of living : Pensioners Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Ruth Edwards . ) there be 2 million old people live in poverty — that be one in six — and another million be sit just above the poverty line silently struggle to make end meet . together , a quarter of old people be in or at risk of be in poverty . in recent year , the phrase " heat or eating " have become shorthand for the cost of living crisis . it rhyme , and it be easy to say , but it be the reality face too many of our pensioner . Age UK research find that 4 . 2 million people cut back on food or grocery last year , while a survey by this House ' s Petitions Committee of those engage in petition on pension level find that three quarter be worried about afford food . health statistic always worsen in the cold winter month , with mortality rise in all part of the UK last year compare with previously . as we face an even cold winter — in my constituency we often reach minus temperature overnight — there be real consequence when old people can not afford to properly heat their home . the reality be that heating or eating be not a catchphrase , but a decision about survival . it be our duty as policy maker in this place to ask why that be a reality for so many of our old people and to find solution . I welcome the Government ' s eventual decision to keep the triple lock this year , but the lack of clarity and uncertainty about that decision appear to be electorally motivated , and I argue it cause a great deal of anxiety for many old constituent . my hon . friend be talk about the triple lock on pension . I have hear it say in this House in recent month that the triple lock on pension be a conservative proposal , so I go to the Library to find out whether that be true . the 2010 conservative manifesto talk about " restore the link between the basic state pension and average earning " , while the 2010 Liberal Democrat manifesto state : " we will uprate the state pension annually by whichever be the high of growth in earning , growth in price or 2 . 5 per cent . " do she agree with I that the triple lock be a Lib Dem proposal ? I regularly meet Steve Webb , the former Lib Dem Pensions Minister from the coalition , and I know how hard he work when in government on this policy , so I entirely agree with my hon . friend and thank he for his intervention . the triple lock be of no use to anyone if the Government can not get their system work to pay people what they be due . repeatedly last year we learn of pensioner near or reach pension age try to top up their national insurance record and see their money disappear without a trace . it would appear again some week later , but often only after chase by an MP , an adviser or due to medium coverage . that be not just in one or two case ; what become apparent be systemic problem of jammed helpline and hundred upon hundred of people lose track of their saving as they pay they over to the Government . will the Minister tell we what he be do to resource properly the Future Pension Centre ? my hon . friend be make a strong point and an excellent speech . on saving and top up national insurance , we hear that about two third of those over 64 be dip into their saving just to keep go . they be cut down on food , and eat less healthily . apart from the cruelty show to pensioner by force they into that position , be the Government not short - sighted in not see the implication of treat our pensioner so badly for the NHS , the welfare system and social care ? I think it be reflect across a number of policy area that we should look in all our service at sufficiency of income , allow people to live with dignity and respect and know that they can cover the essential , and for pensioner as well as for other age group . far to that point , will the hon . Lady give way ? I give way to the hon . member — it be not an Adjournment debate without he . I congratulate the hon . Lady , who always bring to the House and Westminster Hall bread - and - butter issue that I support . I be glad to come along and give my support to she tonight . the price of electricity in Northern Ireland be rise by 20 % , but pension be rise by only 8 . 5 % . with similar increase in the cost of meat and veg , it be clear that those comfortable on their pension in 2020 will be substantially less comfortable now . do she not agree that an investigation into energy price must take place as people feel that they be be gouge every time they put on their light or gas and feel the pain of prioritise one necessity over another ? I be grateful to the hon . member . I agree that many people feel they be be hold hostage by the vagary of energy price and system . although the cap and other measure have go some way to help with that , there be no doubt that it be a huge challenge . it also demonstrate why the triple lock remain require . while we be on energy price , I be acutely aware that , as we speak , pensioner in my constituency be have to brave serious snow condition and , because we have the high level of fuel poverty anywhere in the country , they will feel literally and metaphorically out in the cold . do my hon . friend agree that Ofgem have a role to play in the creation of a social tariff , or even a geographically - base tariff ? one challenge in my right hon . friend ' s constituency be the number of his constituent who be off grid . we know that there be a lack of regulation in the sector off grid . one other challenge for the Government in respond to energy price fluctuation be get a lot of money out to many people easily , and administrative issue materialise for those off grid . many of they have still not see the money to which they be entitle . we need to look at well regulation of our energy system . I be talk about the Future Pension Centre and the challenge experience by many constituent across the UK in top up their pension . I table a presentation Bill on the issue to extend the deadline and be glad that the Government take that up . in respond , will the Minister tell we what discussion he be have with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs about make its system align and function properly ? if those system be work as they should , many constituent would not have a gap to fill in the first instance . will he consider implement a proper receipt system so that old people have proof of payment as they do with any other transaction ? we know that error by the Department for Work and Pensions be all too commonplace ; we need only to look at the experience of the WASPI woman — the Women against State Pension Inequality — to see that . those woman , through no fault of their own , lose their ability to plan for their retirement . they lose their financial autonomy . many of they continue to live in poverty , while other have sadly die without see any compensation . I know that we be all await the final report of the ombudsman set out its recommendation for compensation for the WASPI woman , but in the meantime will the Minister agree to meet I to discuss the next step ? he and I work successfully together on the all - party parliamentary group on end the need for food bank before he take on his current role , and I hope that we can do so again . I return to pension income and want to raise pension credit with the Minister . this top - up benefit be the simple tool at the Government ' s disposal to lift pensioner out of poverty . it feel like every year we have a new attempt at increase uptake with a fancy leaflet or other information campaign . I be sure we all go to the drop - in , have our picture take and share they with our constituent , but pension credit take - up remain stick at 63 % , which suggest that the campaign simply be not work . Pensioners either do not know about the benefit or do not realise they be eligible , or some struggle with the stigma of be see to claim it . I have be in this role for more than three year , and I have spend a lot of time have conversation about how to improve uptake . clearly , an annual leaflet be not do the trick . we need a long - term strategy on pension credit uptake with two key focus : how we share datum to identify people eligible for pension benefit , and how we target they efficiently and effectively so that they actually claim it and do not feel stigmatise ? the hon . Lady make a critical point . when I talk to pensioner in my constituency , I always ask what benefit they be on . I always mention carer ' s allowance if they do not receive disability living allowance , and I always mention pension credit . in many case , they be not on it . how do we make a well system ? I suggest , with great respect , that maybe the Department need to physically go to those people and introduce it to they . many people be proud , independent and do not want to take it up because they think they should not , but they should . they work hard all their day and pay their tax and national insurance , and it be time for payback . Stigma be definitely a part of it , but some think they do not qualify as they have a sufficiency of income that would result in their being reject . I always say to they that even if it be only 50p , it be worth do because of the passporting benefit . we have see this challenge around child benefit . have not see an increase in the threshold , we be in a ludicrous situation where if a single earner earn over £ 60 , 000 , the household be not entitle to it . the challenge be that if the non - earn parent do not apply , they do not get their national insurance contribution for their pension . why would people apply for something that they do not think they be entitle to ? we must do more to make it easy for people to get what they be entitle to . they do not want to end up 20 year down the line find out that they do not have full pension contribution , because we know that top it up be quite challenging , as I have talk about . go back to pension credit , perhaps once the Minister ' s Department have publish the result of last summer ' s trial of target recipient of housing benefit , he could give we an update on the outcome of the trial to see whether that might work for pension credit , and what lesson can be learn . miss out on pension credit have serious implication beyond the credit itself . as I mention , it be the main passporting benefit for old people for cost of living payment . while we focus on a long - term strategy for pension credit , will the Minister consider extend entitlement to those payment to old people in receipt of housing benefit and council tax reduction , for example ? I suspect that if they be eligible for those thing , they be probably eligible for pension credit . before I move on to long - term strategy to tackle pension poverty , I want to raise one more benefit - relate point . this be not strictly in his portfolio , but will the Minister commit to provide the House with an update on the future of the household support fund ? I know from english colleague that there be significant distress at the prospect of its not be renew in March . I dispute the claim of the Minister ' s colleague , the Minister for Disabled People , Health and Work , the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) , in a write response to I yesterday , that pensioner poverty be fall . it be not . the claim be base on statistic before housing cost , which be distinctly disingenuous . increasingly , pensioner face high housing cost , as more continue to rent privately into old age . twice as many rent now than a decade ago — a trend set to continue as it be hard for young people to get on to the housing ladder . we must tackle the poverty immediately in front of we , but we must look at long - term driver of poverty among pensioner and stop this trend in its track . there be two part to that : ensure that people enter retirement sufficiently equip , and ensure that no one fall into poverty after end their work life . ultimately , our experience during our work life determine what happen to we when we retire . if someone have to take time out of work or only work part - time because of ill health , child rear or caring , they will be substantially bad off in retirement . those last two reason be incredibly gendere , with woman more likely to miss out on saving for their retirement . it be right early to highlight the benefit of the coalition Government introduce the triple lock , which this year will mean an uptick of between £ 650 and £ 1 , 000 for pensioner . the coalition Government also introduce mandatory pension contribution and pension pot from employer . do hon . Lady not think that that be the sort of long - term planning that will make a difference to help this generation to be in a well place financially when they retire ? I assume the hon . Gentleman be refer to automatic enrolment ; if he wait , I will mention that . I will not let it go amiss . return briefly to the gender pay gap , the Government ' s own research put the gender pension gap at 35 % . I would argue that we could call it the care gender gap , because life be arguably more complicated for retiree with caring responsibility . I be not just think about old couple who increasingly rely on each other as their health start to deteriorate , but people who move into retirement while carry on care for their adult child or for other family member . constituent have write to I to protest about the injustice of have lose out on the opportunity to build up retirement saving and now , move into pension age , lose their carer allowance but still continue to provide unpaid care to their love one while other in their cohort settle into a more comfortable retirement . I would like to see a comprehensive plan from the Government , across Departments , to tackle that unfairness . be there way of bring unpaid carer into auto - enrolment through a credit scheme ? could we increase the employer contribution to auto - enrolment to help to build the saving of those in low - pay work ? how can we encourage more carer back into the workplace ? I be proud to pass the Carer ' s Leave Act 2023 , but that be not enough . we need policy on issue such as stay - in - touch day and we need a carer ' s allowance that incentivise work . I look forward to meet a colleague of the Minister on just that . there be definitely an education piece here . auto - enrolment be an incredible policy , but it also mean that people do not really think about their pension . the Money and Pensions Service estimate that 22 million people say they do not know enough to plan for their retirement , while Department for Work and Pensions research last year find that attitude to pension be " characterise by detachment , fear and complacency " . I think that those view would be represent in this place , too , when I think about the different thing I do before I come to this place and the different pension pot I have . I understand that planning for retirement be difficult and complicated unless you be an actuary or a financial specialist . I can hear the response of my teenage child if I try to bring it up at home or see the eye glaze over on the doorstep , but people do care about the result of not engage . my challenge for the Minister be to bridge that gap and change our culture so that people know about their pension be normal , and not scary but a standard part of people ' s financial planning and education . I be interested to hear the Minister ' s idea , but I will put to he just one that keep come up when I speak with expert and stakeholder . will he consider a trial to test the impact of automatically book saver for pension guidance appointment when they turn 50 ? let we try to make it easy , because lot of thing can happen in retirement : your health can change , you could be bereave or divorce , you could become a carer . the economy could be crash , cause a sustained cost of living crisis . to try to understand driver of poverty among old people , Independent Age follow the outcome for a cohort of pensioner who enter state pension age above the poverty line . within 10 year almost half have fall into poverty . something else be clearly happen that we need to understand . I have talk about a lot of different moving part in the overall pension and poverty landscape , but what we need — what old people need — be a comprehensive plan . I will end by ask the Minister this : will he consider a cross - Government review of what support an old person need to stay out of poverty ? will he bring Westminster up to the standard of other nation and support a Westminster commissioner for old people and ageing ? I would like to get something do and I be sure that the Minister would too . I look forward to hear his response . I congratulate the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) on secure the debate . I be always happy to meet she , as she know . I think I have be give eight minute to respond . be that correct , Madam Deputy Speaker ? [ interruption . ] I have be misinformed . Madam Deputy Speaker , you will get more of I than I anticipate ! I will do my good to respond to all the hon . Lady ' s point where I can . as the hon . Lady will of course know , we have both tour the United Kingdom look into issue relate to poverty and visit food bank in Hackney and Newcastle . I have tour North East Fife and thoroughly enjoy myself , and the hon . Lady have come to Blackpool to look at the situation on the ground — an experience that I trust she enjoy equally . I know how passionate she feel about this matter , and I hope she know how passionate I feel about it . as I have say , I shall be more than happy to meet she . she put forward so many idea in her speech that I may not be able to do justice to they all , but I will do my good to touch on some of they in the time that be available . the Government fully recognise the challenge face pensioner owe to the high cost of living , and we be commit to action that help to alleviate level of pensioner poverty . we have take significant step to ease financial pressure by provide total support of £ 104 billion over 2022 - 25 to help household with the high cost of bill . in 2023 - 24 we will spend more than £ 152 billion — 5 . 6 % of gdp — on benefit for pensioner , include £ 125 . 4 billion on the state pension alone . tackle high inflation remain a core priority for the Government . at its peak inflation be 11 . 1 % , but the late Office for National Statistics datum show that we have reduce it to 3 . 9 % , which be good news for everyone but particularly for pensioner , on whom , in my view , inflation bear down particularly hard . we also recognise the exceptional circumstance of the last two year and have commit ourselves to provide timely relief for those who need it most . that have be especially important follow the inflationary pressure . we have provide one of the large support package in Europe , include two round of cost of living payment . More than 8 million UK household receive mean - test benefit for which they be eligible , include an estimate 1 . 4 million pensioner household , may receive additional cost of living payment total up to £ 900 in the current financial year , and 8 . 9 million pensioner household across the UK will have receive an additional £ 300 cost of live payment this winter as a top - up to their winter fuel payment , worth a total of £ 4 . 8 billion . the Government remain committed to ensure that old people can live with the dignity and respect they deserve . when I be a Member of Parliament in the coalition , we achieve many thing , and to put it bluntly , I happen to think that the Conservatives have a good record as well . I will not get into a fight over whose idea be what when , and who first make the comment when , because I do not think that that would do much credit to the joint endeavour on which we be engage , but we have stick with the triple lock . the state pension will increase by 8 . 5 % in April 2024 , follow the 10 . 1 % increase in April 2023 , and the standard minimum guarantee in pension credit will also increase by 8 . 5 % . like the hon . Lady , I often meet Steve Webb and listen carefully to what he say ; he be a wise man indeed . the hon . Lady focus a great deal on pension credit , as do I , for that matter . it provide invaluable financial support for about 1 . 4 million household claim about £ 5 . 4 billion . the hon . Lady be right : the late figure suggest that take - up be 63 % , although they be base on cohort estimate , so they be not quite as accurate I would like they to be . unfortunately , it be often hard to identify actual take - up ; that , I think , be one of the deficit of our data system . however , take - up of the guarantee credit element , which be perhaps the main safety net , be at 70 % . I believe we can always do more . in benefit circle , we talk about stock and flow . the new pensioner flow on to the system need an approach that will ensure that they be signpost speedily , and at an early stage , to the existence of pension credit and the question of whether it be right for they , but in recent year we have be try to focus on the stock , not least through the advertising campaign to which the hon . Lady refer . I be sad that Harry Redknapp do not get a mention , give the fantastic video that we put out on social medium . as the hon . Lady say , we have also be consider more target effort , include write to housing benefit claimant . there have be an important trial run , but I do not have the result yet . I want they yesterday because I think they be so important , but I also want to ensure that the data be validate properly and actually mean something , so that decision base on it can then be make . however , the work we have do already have improve uptake . the quarterly caseload statistic show a rise in the number of household in receipt of pension credit , after about 12 year of the caseload be in decline . I can not say that that be entirely due to our campaign ; Martin Lewis can probably take a share of the acclaim follow his ITV series this year . I entirely agree that there be much more creative thing that we can do , and we can discuss some of those idea during our meeting when we get around to it . the hon . Lady make a point about top up national insurance and the issue around that . we be look at introduce online service that will allow people to make their own payment for voluntary national insurance contribution directly to HMRC . I hear the point she make around receipt and the proper provisioning of the service , and she be quite right to do that . that will be uppermost in my mind as we go forward . I could talk for half an hour on the gender pension gap , although I be not sure that I have that much time . we all know that the pension gap be there , and part of the reason why auto - enrolment be introduce be to try to address that pension gap over time . in 2012 , 40 % of eligible woman be participate in a workplace pension ; 10 year on , that have increase to 86 % . that show that auto - enrolment have be a great success , but in my view it be a work in progress . there be still group in society who be under - save , even among those participate in auto - enrolment , and woman and those with caring responsibility be at the forefront of my mind . the hon . Lady might have see a report by scottish widow back in November that identify those issue . I have have multiple discussion within my Department on what we be go to do about each particular group , so that be of particular interest to I as well . my other point relate to pensioner poverty and poverty indicator , and I suspect we could argue about this until the cow come home . the late statistic show that in 2021 - 22 there be 200 , 000 few pensioner in absolute poverty after housing cost than there be in 2009 - 10 . average pensioner income be grow in real term , and in 2021 - 22 the average net income of all pensioner be £ 349 per week after housing cost , compare with £ 335 in 2009 - 10 . as I have outline , the Government take the cost of living pressure face pensioner and pensioner poverty extremely seriously . the amount we be spend be clear , but I recognise that the task will never end . the hon . Lady be quite right about that , and I think the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention it as well . she and I discover this on our tour around the country . she will have be sick of hear I talk about try to identify people upstream , as soon as something occur , when the state can intervene and help they , rather than wait for issue to accumulate far down the track , where the cost to the public purse be that much high . that be very much the spirit in which I have embark on this particular part of my ministerial journey . many of the question the hon . Lady raise be the question that I have be raise in my introductory meeting , and I be now get a chance to put some of the idea into practice . when she and I meet , I will be in listen mode and I look forward to hear more about some of her idea . question put and agree to . House adjourn .