thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my first speech as part of this important debate . first , may I thank the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) for his contribution ? may I also pay tribute to all those who be make their first speech today ? I wish they well today and for the remainder of this Parliament , and I hope that we each manage to repay the trust that our new constituent have place in we . I be lead to believe that certain convention apply to member ' first speech . I wish to assure the House that I will abide by those convention . accordingly , I wish to pay sincere tribute to my predecessor , Damien Moore , who diligently serve Southport for the past seven year , pave the way for a new Government to ensure that the town ' s good day lie ahead . I wish he nothing but the good for the future . I also wish to refer to another of my predecessor as the MP for Southport , somebody already mention in today ' s debate . at the 1865 general election , William Gladstone be elect as one of the three Members for the South Lancashire county constituency , which take in both Southport and my original hometown of Prescot . as I be sure member will appreciate , this fact help I somewhat over the past 12 month or so in draw a link between where I be bear and where I now represent in this House . I expect that I be not alone among new member in have be rather overwhelmed over the past couple of week by the mountain of email correspondence that we have receive from constituent and other since be elect . I can , though , take some comfort in the fact that my inbox refer solely to the much small constituency of Southport , rather than to the whole of the South Lancashire constituency that William Gladstone represent . I can only imagine the additional stress and strain on member in Gladstone ' s day if they , too , have have access to a parliamentary email address . as well as be part of the same old county constituency , both Prescot and Southport be also within the boundary of the old hundred of West Derby . this fact be bring far to my attention when the Boundary Commission announce during the last Parliament that the new Southport constituency would , from now onwards , also contain Tarleton and Hesketh Bank , two beautiful village on the south coast of the Ribble . as a result of this change , I research at my local library whereabout the boundary of the West Derby hundred be , hope that I would be able to say that Tarleton and Hesketh Bank have , many year ago , also be under the same county division as Southport . alas , this be not to be . after quite some hour of research , I realise that the information I be look for have actually be stare I in the face all along . it appear that the boundary between the hundred of West Derby and Leyland lie along — would you believe ? — Boundary Lane , and that Boundary Lane be situate in a hamlet call Hundred end . it be a lesson , I think , in not ignore the obvious when it be right there in front of you . my predecessor in previous Parliaments have talk about how they have feel that Southport have sometimes be take for grant or take advantage of , and so have subsequently seek to discuss and elevate division between the town of the local borough . I wish to assure my constituent that I will take a different approach . instead , I will work to ensure that our country ' s new Government will not look to cause division with our neighbour , whether they be other country thousand of mile away or even other town just a few thousand yard away . instead , I will work with colleague to ensure that the Government will look to unite our country in the task of national renewal , because the politic that I believe in be a politic of the common good — a politic where each of we look out for the wellbeing of the other , rather than try to do other down . many town and village in this country have see well day than over the past few year . Southport be no different . whereas other area have have , for instance , much - need housing not build , or much - need transport link not implement — two issue that I be pleased to see the new Government be plan to address — Southport ' s problem have manifest themselves in the temporary closure of the town ' s much - love pier , and in the town centre , whose main street need more than their fair share of love and attention . I promise to work with colleague in this House and beyond to fix these issue . the new Government ' s priority on economic growth be entirely the right approach . unless we get the trend rate of growth back to pre - 2008 level , our task in this Parliament of reduce poverty will be much hard . the Government have my full support in their approach . I wish it to be know that I will do my utmost to make sure that Southport ' s good day lie ahead of it , that the decline of recent year will be arrest and that the town ' s fortune will be turn around , and that I will work with good people of good faith to bring that about , no matter what their party affiliation . with that , I would like to thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I the opportunity to make my first speech in this place . I thank the House for the manner in which the speech be receive .