I be grateful for be able to contribute to this debate . it be a privilege to follow so many powerful speech , and the speech deliver by my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) be the most powerful I have hear in this place . her word rise to the moment ; mine be inadequate by comparison . I can only thank she for speak so powerfully about an issue that affect so many of we . I welcome the new Secretary of State to his place , and thank he for the way in which he open this debate . at the outset , I draw the House ' s attention to my background as an officer of the GMB union and my current unpaid role as chair of the GMB parliamentary group . in that capacity , I thank the hon . member for Dundee Central ( Chris Law ) , as he leave the Chamber , for what he say about Members ' staff in this place . GMB be the union that represent the majority of people who work in support of we as member of this House . I be sad to say that they be perhaps uniquely vulnerable to some of the abusive practice that have shame our democracy for too long , and I be at a loss to understand how the relevant Lords amendment be ever bring forward from the other place . I wish to speak specifically against Lords amendment 121 , 11 and 1 , and in support of the Government amendment that seek to strike they out . before do so , I want to say a few word about my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , who be not in his place at the moment . as a former shadow Minister and latterly as the sponsoring Minister for this Bill , he unfailingly and characteristically bring graft , industry and good humour to the brief . this will be a weak and less Bill without he , and those of we who support the Bill and its principle owe he a debt of thank . I be glad that my hon . friend the Member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) , who bring a real depth of knowledge and understanding to the role of Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , be now guard the Bill ' s passage to Royal Assent . I know that she will be both pro - worker and pro - business in her approach . I believe that Lords amendment 121 contain significant drafting weakness and would fundamentally alter the nature of the propose and restore school support staff negotiate body . first , the amendment state that employer may introduce new term and condition of employment that " meet or exceed any minimum standard set by the SSSNB . " in legal term , however , the SSSNB will not set or determine those standard ; it be a statutory forum for negotiation . the actual condition of employment will be set through regulation draft by the Secretary of State and approve by Parliament . secondly , the actual parameter of a future pay and grade structure will be negotiate by the relevant party : the representative of employer , and the representative of employee . that be the spirit of the original 2008 Act and the actual operation of the SSSNB in its original incarnation . give my experience as a former trade union officer represent school support staff , I know the contractual issue that need to be address be so complicated that they can not be satisfactorily resolve on the Floor of the House . that complexity be a result of 14 year of drift , dither and political disinter in the 800 , 000 support staff worker in England who keep our school go , and it be a damn indictment of the decision to cancel the original sssnb . finally , Lords amendment 121 risk create confusion at a local level . the amendment state that employer must not be restrict from introduce " improved term and condition " , but change to contract be not merely introduce ; they be consult on and agree , either individually or collectively , under exist statute . the effect of the somewhat loose wording in the amendment may be to encourage local attempt to make unilateral variation to contract and term and condition . member who support this amendment might say that only improvement could be make under it , but both " improvement " and " detriment " be subjective term . they be in the eye of the beholder , and I believe that if the amendment be to be carry through , the actual effect may be to increase the number of court case concern school support staff . I urge the opposition not to push a point , and to reconsider their wide opposition to the school support staff negotiate body . school support staff undertake essential role , and they deserve the same professional standard and professional respect that be afford to teacher . that be what the restoration of the school support staff negotiate body will achieve . we have debate the official Opposition ' s amendment many time at various stage , but I want to comment on some of the Lords amendment that stand in the name of liberal Democrat peer , either in whole or in part . when I enter this Chamber at the start of the debate , I do not presume that those amendment necessarily enjoy the support of the Liberal Democrat Front Benchers in the Commons , but I be afraid that impression be dispel by the contribution from the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) . I be at a loss to understand how the radical change in approach have come about among the Liberal Democrats in this House between Committee stage , Report , Third Reading and the debate that we be hold today . in fact , listen to the hon . Lady , I feel an uncomfortable sense of d é j à vu : it be like watch the Rose Garden press conference all over again . after all , her Front - Bench colleague — the hon . member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) and for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) — be at all time appropriately critical in Committee , but they be essentially supportive of the principle of enhance worker ’ right . lord amendment 11 , which be originally a conservative amendment in the Commons but now stand in the name of a liberal Democrat peer , be not support by the Liberal Democrats in Committee . lord amendment 1 , which stand in the name of both Liberal Democrat and conservative peer , seek to amend clause 1 . however , the Liberal Democrats support that clause in Committee and only voice concern , which be reasonable , that timely guidance to employer must be issue to accompany it ; indeed , they vote with Labour Members when it be put to a vote in Committee . I fear that this amendment , too , could have serious unintended consequence . the clause that it seek to amend put a duty on employer to offer regular - hour contract to " worker " — that be the language use in the legislation as it stand at the moment — but the amendment seek to convert that duty into a right to request by employee . " employee " be , of course , a more restrictive category than " worker " ; indeed , clause 148 of the Bill as draft make it clear that for the purpose of the interpretation of this Bill , " worker " and " employee " mean two different thing . many of the people who be class only as " worker " be precisely those who may benefit the most from these protection . some 5 million people who be nominally casual worker in sector such as social care , construction , hospitality , security and retail could be exclude from these protection if the amendment , which stand in the name of Conservative and liberal Democrat peer , be to be carry . I hope it be not the intention of those on the Conservative Benches to exclude those 5 million people . at the start of this debate , I could not believe that that be the intention of the Liberal Democrats , but now I be not so sure .