prayer the First Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) and negative . Building Societies Act 1986 ( amendment ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . it be a privilege to come out at the top of the private Member ' s Bill ballot for this parliamentary session . it be a ballot I have enter at every opportunity since I be first elect in 2010 , so it be great to be draw , but to be draw first be a huge responsibility . I be on my way to get the train to my constituency in Sunderland , and when I get off the tube at King ' s Cross , my phone have dozen of message . my immediate reaction be that the Government must have call a general election , but no — that be something else we can look forward to in the year ahead . I have , in fact , be draw at the top of the ballot . I be delighted to be here in the Chamber to present a Bill that will make important and long - await amendment to the Building Societies Act 1986 . it be a Bill that the sector want ; a Bill that be true to Labour and Co - operative value ; and , importantly , a Bill that have receive Government support . although it will not solve all of the issue in the broken housing market , it could free up and make available more money to lend in mortgage , and because building society lend more in percentage term to first - time buyer , it should enable more first - time buyer to get on to the housing ladder . clearly , there also need to be wholesale reform of the rental market , in order to address the housing crisis that we have in this country today . I must take this opportunity to thank everyone who contact I about issue and with proposal for potential Bills . I would have happily take many of they forward , but I could choose only one Bill . however , I feel that the Bill I have choose can make a real difference to people ' s life , especially young people ' s life . I hope it will support first - time buyer and more community - base banking , in the interest of work people . the entire point of building society be to compete with bank on a truly level playing field — they be found to enable work people to own their own home . that be why this Bill be so important . as my hon . Friend say , it will expand that ownership , particularly to young people and first - time buyer . do she agree that not only should we absolutely be do this , but it should already have be do ? I absolutely agree , but the bureaucracy of Government sometimes get in the way of thing happen . the Bill will help level the play field , enable building society to compete more fairly with bank . it will support they to lend more money in a safe and secure way . over half of build society lending — 55 % — go to first - time buyer . crucially , as the building society sector direct a great proportion of lend to first - time buyer than bank do — there be a theme here — that will benefit more people look to get on to the housing ladder . modernisation of build society legislation be long overdue . there be some archaic requirement about the way build society fund themselves that put they at a competitive disadvantage compare with bank . competition in banking be good for consumer , and give that building society drive innovation , particularly in support first - time buyer , strengthen the sector be a great route to support aspiration across the UK at the same time as support a sector that work co - operatively and mutually . build society work for the benefit of their member up and down the country , engage in a system of co - operative banking for mutual benefit , not for profit . we be lucky to have three building society in my Sunderland Central constituency : Newcastle , Yorkshire and Nationwide building society all have branch in Sunderland , so I see at first hand the excellent support they give to member . it be incredibly important to my constituent to have a branch that they can visit to talk through any financial issue and receive the support they need face to face . I see the work of build society as both a strong british tradition and a strong labour tradition . I be delighted to have the support of the Co - operative party and the Building Societies Association , which represent both tradition . the first form of a building society be in 1775 , when Richard Ketley bring people together in a pub — in what be now the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Ladywood ( Shabana Mahmood ) — to put money into a share fund , collect regular subscription until there be sufficient fund to be able to provide a house for one of they . they draw name , very much like the drawing of name for a private Member ' s Bill , to decide which member would be the next beneficiary ; this continue until all member of the group have a house . the arrangement require trust , hope and a commitment by the community that no one would be leave behind . at that time , most building society be create as terminate society , which mean that the building society terminate trade once all its member be house , so many be create , house their member and then disappear . that practice continue until 1980 . by 1825 — 50 year after the first building society be create — over 250 terminate building society be in operation , although it take until 1845 for the first non - termination society to be form : the Metropolitan Equitable . in 1836 , the first legislation deal with the industry be introduce , recognise build society for the first time in this House through the Regulation of Benefit Building Societies Act . the legislation , along with previous court case , lead to the formal recognition of the right of build society as entity , result in a boom in the sector . by 1860 , the number of building society have rise to almost 3 , 000 . in 1874 , the Building Societies Act be pass — an historic precursor to the Building Societies Act 1986 , which I hope to amend through my Bill . the history of building society have play an important role in the history of work people support each other in their mutual ambition of own their own home , and in financial institution serve the community they represent . it be a trend that be even more prevalent today ; as bank shut branch at an alarming rate , build society be gradually take a big share of branch in the community that remain open . build society now account for 28 % of all high street branch in the UK , as oppose to only 14 % 10 year ago . although this may be cause by the closure of bank branch in the main , it show a commitment to keep branch open by build society , on which so many of my constituent rely . that face - to - face engagement , personal support and visibility be so important to many people . branch be so much more accessible to those who have specific need , especially in the digital age , where those with internet access often have the good opportunity and access to the good deal . the original purpose of building society embody the famous phrase in clause 4 of the Labour party ' s constitution , that " by the strength of our common endeavour we achieve more than we achieve alone " , with community come together to support each other and provide a strong and secure economic foundation for their collective future . family in Sunderland and across the country be struggle to find a secure home . research by the Resolution Foundation show that 80 % of 25 to 34 - year - old would prefer to buy their own home than to rent . home ownership be something many strive for , to provide financial security and ultimately to turn a house into a home . my Bill aim to support they in do just that . as I have say , it be quite clear that there be a housing crisis in this country , for homeowner and renter . we must at this point consider the damage do by the previous Prime Minister and her Chancellor , and the economic damage cause by her Government to the country , especially people with mortgage . I believe we also need reform in the rental sector to sort this out . the system be break and be not work for people . the Bill will go some way towards make the housing ownership landscape easy for all . I support the Bill , as I hope do Members across all party . it be good to see something that will , hopefully , strengthen the principle of mutuality . do the hon . Lady agree that be an important principle to retain , and be she confident that her Bill will do that ? will it lead to a situation in which there be less desire among build society to become bank ? I agree . building society be certainly part of my life when I be grow up . I get my first mortgage with a building society — a very long time ago , because I be get old . the principle of mutuality be really important and do set building society apart from bank . they be a very different model and serve community in a much close way than bank do . by introduce welcome flexibility to a sector that do so much for first - time buyer and other , the Bill , although it do not directly provide provision for the building of home or assure the retail customer of any extended product line , do provide more room for the sector to work in , give that its use of finance be different from that of bank as it lend significant amount of money to first - time buyer . the building society sector be make up of 42 separate building society and currently have almost 26 million member . it hold over £ 352 billion of mortgage asset and £ 313 billion of saving from individual . it be not a small sector , but it be a sector that can grow . building society face significant challenge . the Bill have the potential to unlock billion of pound in additional lending capacity for they . it be estimate that for every £ 10 billion of new lending capacity , the sector could support an additional 20 , 000 mortgage . as we know , over half of build society lending go to first - time buyer , so the potential impact of the Bill be huge . since 2020 , build society in the north - east and Cumbria have lend £ 3 . 4 billion to first - time buyer . in the first nine month of last year , they support nearly 4 , 000 first - time buyer — 4 , 000 people who last year start their journey of home ownership , with all the financial security and benefit that bring . increase lending capacity be incredibly important in support hard - work people . it be essential to the UK ' s future prosperity and desperately need for economic growth . I want briefly to run through the four clause of the Bill and the impact the change will have . it be not a standalone bill ; it amend the Building Societies Act 1986 by insert new provision . clause 1 deal with fund that can be disregard by a building society for the purpose of calculate its wholesale funding limit . the 1986 Act currently require they to obtain at least 50 % of funding from their member — from individual member deposit . the retention of this 50 % minimum requirement ensure that the member remain the primary owner of building society ; it be what make the sector so unique . the other 50 % can come from external source . this balance will not be change , but there be a need to modernise the rule govern the sector in order for build society to compete with bank on a level playing field . the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority engage with the sector on this issue in 2021 . the conclusion of the Government ' s consultation recommend the exclusion of some source of funding from build society ' wholesale funding limit calculation , as well as the modernisation element that come later in the Bill . the recommendation be never implement , which be why the Bill be need . clause 1 will disregard the following from the 50 % wholesale funding limit : Bank of England liquidity insurance facility , debt instrument raise to meet the minimum regulatory requirement for own fund and eligible liability requirement , and sum receive under sale and repurchase agreement , with a view to comply with Prudential Regulation Authority rule . these change will not dilute the unique ownership model under which building society operate . they will not increase the financial risk to the sector , because these liquidity insurance facility , the debt instrument and the sale and repurchase agreement sum will be effective tool at a time of national economic crisis to ensure that building society remain comfortably solvent and active in the interest of their member . these change will help to future - proof build society from external factor , economic shock or period of financial stress . the specify facility and so on will be describe in a statutory instrument lay by the Government of the day , which will provide additional detail to allow the funding disregard broadly describe in subsection ( 2 ) to be activate . the Bill be design so that any Government at any give time can react to the need of the building society sector , the Bank of England and the Prudential Regulation Authority . enable such change in regulation to be make by mean of secondary legislation will make the sector much more sustainable and able to react to change in circumstance . the change present in the Bill form part of the Edinburgh reform . all the response to the Government consultation be in support of these change . prudent lending be crucial to the UK ' s economic growth . make this change will make building society safe , more secure , and competitive in the long term , without affect their status as mutual . clause 2 be about modernisation . it amend the 1986 Act to explicitly allow the option of real - time virtual member participation in build society meeting . the change present in the Bill align the sector with modernisation make to company law by section 360A of the Companies Act 2006 . it will allow virtual attendance and voting as part of hybrid meeting , make it clear that nothing in the 1986 Act preclude this . allow hybrid meeting will improve accessibility and will hopefully allow engagement from member who can not currently travel to meeting , enable a broad cross - section of member to participate . clause 3 be another modernising clause . in simple term , it will enable the Treasury to introduce increase flexibility for society in relation to common seal and the execution of document , in line with company . it reserve to the Treasury the right to make provision by regulation in future , upon which further consultation in the sector would be usual . finally , clause IV define the territorial extent of the Bill , which cover all four nation , and specifie that the Bill " come into force at the end of the period of two month begin with the day on which it be pass " — the standard period set out in legislation . the Bill have no implication for public fund , as the impact assessment show , and do not contain any provision that will require a money resolution or a Ways and Means resolution . ultimately , the Bill do a lot of thing in a succinct way . it will enable the modernisation of the building society sector and bring it up to date ; it will put the sector on a more level playing field with bank ; and it will potentially allow they more scope for support their member or future member . the Bill have overwhelming support from the sector , include from the Building Societies Association , the representative body of the sector , and its member . the BSA be found in 1869 and be now the voice of the sector , represent 42 building society and seven credit union , and serve 27 million member up and down the UK . the sector have help 3 . 5 million people to buy a home with mortgage total over £ 375 billion . that account for 23 % of total outstanding mortgage balance in the UK . the building society that the BSA represent account for 19 % of cash saving in the UK , and 40 % of all cash ISA balance . across the country , the sector employ 51 , 500 people , both full - time and part - time , work in around 1 , 300 branch in the UK . the BSA contribute greatly to the consultation process in 2021 , and I be proud that it support the Bill . I also wish to thank his Majesty ' s Treasury for the support it give I in prepare for today ' s Second Reading . the Bill will make building society lend on a similar basis to bank , free up more money to help more work people in the UK . it have the potential to unlock billion of pound of additional lending capacity at a time when so many people need it . I commend it to the House . it be a huge pleasure able to join Friday business as a Back Bencher and to support this important Bill on behalf of my Mid Norfolk constituent . let I start by congratulate the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) on introduce the Bill and on win that prize first place in the ballot , so that she can make a difference with the Bill . I thank the Government for work with she and all of we who have support she on the Bill . this be a good example of cross - party work , and of the Government work with Back Benchers in the interest of our constituent and the shared and mutual interest of the citizen of this country . I only wish more people around the country be able to see the quality of the work go on in the House on day like this . I want , particularly , to highlight the importance of the Bill for rural area such as mine . the hon . Lady represent the magnificently urban constituency of Sunderland Central , but I represent a magnificently the rural constituency of Mid Norfolk — 114 village and five town . as I candidate , I rashly promise to cycle the border one Saturday morning , but then discover it be 94 mile long . it take I rather more than one Saturday morning . much of this country be rural , up north as well as down south and in the south west . I want to focus on the importance of the Bill and building society in rural area and on our town high street in provide cash facility , and support first time - buyer and pensioner with cash . in Dereham recently , I see Nationwide pack , with queue outside of pensioner move from the bank , which be close , to support Nationwide , as Nationwide support they . in my part of the country we have a huge number of retire folk who want cash — they do not all want to be totally digital . they value and need that interaction with a living and breathe human being when they go to save or take out cash . Nationwide Building Society be do great work to support they . I be really keen to support the Bill , as the hon . Lady know , largely because of that particular rural need . I should declare that I be a member of three building society , and until recently I have a mortgage with Nationwide . I agree with my hon . friend about the importance of build society in rural community . I think of local example such as Suffolk Building Society , but elsewhere around the country there be Newbury Building Society and similar . that connection to the community really matter . it be important to get on with this primary legislation , but we also need to get the negative secondary regulation through as quickly as possible so that we can boost mortgage borrowing for family who be keen to get on to the housing ladder . I completely agree — my right hon . friend make an excellent point , and we will come to that in due course . she be absolutely right . I want to focus on build society in rural area . the flight of the bank , in particular from rural area but also from a lot of high street banking and the role they have traditionally carry out — this be partly why the Bill be so important — highlight the importance of cash in the rural economy . many of my local small business be really struggle with how to bank cash properly . we also have a problem in our part of the world with atm now be subject to JCB theft — atm be rip out of the wall . so , there be a cash problem and building society have a really important role . as well as reflect the very good of old labour , this be also , if I may say so , the very good of civic conservatism . this be Edward Burke ' s little platoon . this be the weft and the warp of local connect responsible civic community - base capitalism ; the sort of capitalism that small platoon civic conservatism have long champion . I would argue that all party in Government over the past 40 year have slightly forget that that need to be champion . we have see the rise and the domination of big capital , big bank and big disconnected capitalism . I be here today as a card - carry supporter of the mutuality model and civic capitalism . I think both main party have that in common in their different tradition and history . on rural banking and finance , in Mid Norfolk we have five town and 114 village . we be not quite halfway between Cambridge and Norwich . traditionally , it have be something of a rural backwater . it be an agricultural community , with many retiree and pensioner move to quiet rural Norfolk . it be a real challenge to ensure that our village remain vibrant and our town remain thrive . the model of development over the past 40 year have be over - focused on commuter housing . People drive their car to Norwich and Cambridge during the day , and that suck the life out of many of our village . the rise of online commerce and digital retail have also take quite a lot of the life out of many of our town , and our high street be struggle to remain vibrant . the Government ' s move to reduce business rate have help , but the pandemic and the cost of energy crisis , come off the back of the Ukraine war , have hit rural area disproportionately hard . that be a theme I will be pick up in the come month in this House in the run - up to the Budget . everyone have be hit by the cost of energy increase of course , but in rural area there be a double triple whammy . every member of staff in a company have to drive . Most of my relatively low - pay work family have one , two or three car . they be not a luxury ; they need they to be able to get to work . all our public service be hit — our bus service and our county council service — all across rural area . we be pay a double whammy because of an over - dependency on transport and heating . that huge rural impact be hit remote backwater rural area very hard , particularly in my part of Norfolk . in that context , it be urgent that we encourage the revival of the rural economy . I have long believe and campaign locally that , with a slightly different approach to planning and development in our area , we could trigger something of a rural renaissance , with many small business pop up off the back of the Cambridge phenomenon and the Norwich Research Park . small business often start off by work from home or look for converted farm unit ; they be not in the city centre , but distribute . if we can get more business back into village and small town , we will have more people of work age in community during the day . that will reduce congestion and commuting . the model of a vibrant rural economy be key to so many of the priority of successive government . we will never get to net zero if we keep shovel people into car and make they commute long distance in congested traffic jam . the more we can get people to work from home or nearer to home , travel when they need to during the day and not in peak hour , the well . that vision of rural renaissance be key , but it will never happen if young people can not afford to buy a house near to where they work , if thriving business on the high street be unable to cash - up , save and deposit cash safely , and if pensioner be unable to save , take out their deposit and interact with banking in the way they have for the past 50 or 60 year . we need to ensure that we build an economy for the people who live there . that be what my campaign , the Norfolk Way , be all about . it be a project to promote that vision of rural growth . the Bill touch on much of that . one have only to see the flight of the mainstream bank out of such area — I know that colleague in other constituency see that — and the desperation that people feel , whether they be first - time buyer or pensioner . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , but we should not see building society as a panacea ; they be close branch in my area as well . how do we encourage build society to keep branch open when they be close throughout the country ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . I do not want to suggest that they be a total panacea ; I be laud and applaud Nationwide in Dereham because it be do great work , but we need to make sure that the Bill be part of a broad approach . I hope that Treasury Ministers , think about the run - up to the Budget and look ahead , will think about how we can encourage more choice , more competition and more presence from both build society and bank . we need choice and competition in rural area and other area that be not well serve as well as in area that be . the opportunity for rural renaissance be hit hard by the pandemic , as well as by the Ukraine war , with its impact on energy price , Putin turn off the gas tap and the cost of living crisis that we have all experience . it be in that context that the Bill represent a chink of light and have be hugely support locally . I be delighted to have help the hon . member for Sunderland Central bring it to the House . I want to say something about the bank , because over the 13 year for which I have be privileged to be the Member of Parliament for Mid Norfolk the closure of bank — a cause on which I remember fondly work with the former Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , in 2009 — have gradually hit much of rural Norfolk . everyone understand that we can not have a hugely staff bank branch in every village , but there be a contract at the heart of the state between citizen , government and operation such as bank that work under regulation . bank be there to provide a service , too , and if they be not go to provide that service we need to look at who will . give the number of people go into bank to do their business these day , it be not unreasonable that there should be some restructuring . I think the idea of banking hub where all the main bank club together to ensure that there be a proper facility in a town or substantial village be a good idea . do my hon . friend think that it be important that they should take in cash and taking from small business , because they do not all do that ? I do . my right hon . and learn Friend amplify exactly the point I be make . he be right that sparsely populated or rural area will often require different solution , in the same way as small rural school require we to network and support they through multi - academy trust . similarly , we need to be imaginative in how we support cash access and banking and save in rural area . that touch on a deep problem that I have witness over many year : whitehall tend to see these problem through an urban lens , and we need to think a bit about how rural area often need a slightly different approach . I hope that the Bill and the cross - party support for it will help to encourage the Treasury to think about how we can do more to make this a moment to encourage great choice and competition out in the market . it be particularly sad that the bank have step back from the service I describe over the two or three decade in which many of they have focus rather more on big , international and complex financial trading — the derivative that lead to quite a lot of problem we have back in the great crash . it be particularly sad in Norfolk give that it be where one of our great bank , Barclays , actually start , with the Gurney and Barclay family . the first bank have its root in King ' s Lynn dock . as people be require to pay duty , they require credit finance . I encourage anyone who have not be to King ' s Lynn to go there , as it have a beautifully regenerate and refurbish georgian dockyard , where they can see the plaque commemorate the first credit facility that become the great Barclays bank . it be particularly sad to see a bank such as Barclays step back from the place in which it start . everyone have history , root and heritage , and I be not such a romantic that I expect Barclays to put a bank in every Norfolk village , but I do think there be a responsibility on all these company to make sure that the people they be there to serve be get the service they need . I wish , in particular , to highlight the importance of access to cash on high street for small business , as it be become a serious problem . I know that the Minister understand it , and I be grateful for his acknowledgement of it . across East Anglia , and I be sure this be happen elsewhere , we be see an increase frequency of ATM raid , where jcb be drive into bank and atm be take out . however , that be the thin end of a big wedge , and many business in Dereham , Attleborough , Wymondham , Watton and Hingham be begin to struggle with what to do with cash on a Monday morning , and many local people be struggle to find a bank they can access . I know that many people wish to speak this morning , so I will not detain you or the House for too long , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I want to touch on mutuality , which my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Sir Oliver Heald ) address early . we need to talk about , celebrate , champion and promote it more in this House . some 300 year ago , we be write the rule book for modern capitalism , define the joint stock limited company and set out the legal framework in english constitutional law , in common law , that drive the industrial revolution . we create limited liability company , which allow people to invest , raise money and back project , and that be a key part of what this country do . in an age of globalise capitalism and high technology , we have a challenge to make sure that capital do not become disconnected from the people who be provide the money , the saver , and the people who need the money to build business . for capitalism to work , we need a connection between money , the people who be save it and the people who be borrow it . the last crash in the City be a clear example of what happen when a disconnection be allow to get to crisis proportion , whereby people do not know where the money that they have deposit be go and people who buy a complex derivative bond do not know what it be build on or what be underpin it . we then have a serious problem . I be not suggest that we go back to an agrarian revolution of trading wheat for a lift on a cart into Dereham , but I think there be a real issue in our economy in respect of connected capitalism . conservative Members in particular , as card - carry advocate for the market , need to continue to champion and make clear the fact that market work when they have value , connection and people at the heart of they . when market be completely disconnected , they have no sense of the requirement of the people put the capital in or take it out , they do not value that connection and regulator do not understand the importance of the bond of responsibility between people who be trade with each other . mutuality be a proud tradition at the heart of the old labour movement , but it be also a proud tradition in civic conservativism — it be Burke ' s little platoon . in a spirit of cross - party philosophising on this Friday morning , perhaps I can put some wind in the sail of the movement for mutuality . I would love to see more mutuality in different sector , such as in finance , banking and housing , where , clearly , the building society have be a great reform — I would argue that the housing association have also be a great conservative reform in housing . there be many example of where we could blow on to the ember of mutuality and encourage more of it in different area , particularly in some of our social care sector and health provision . it should not be a stark choice between private profit and public state . there be a whole third sector of mutuality — membership organisation that can deliver public good , with cost reimbursement and important discipline of financial control that be not necessarily either public sector , with all the efficiency challenge that go with it , or private sector , with all the incentive for high profit . there be a whole raft of organisation out there that we could be deploy well — in health and care , but also in criminal justice and a whole range of area where the state have struggle in the past few decade to achieve its stated objective . my hon . friend be make an outstanding speech , and we could philosophise all day , which I be tempt to do very badly . mutuality in the modern day require a profit element . for all building society branch to remain open , the business have to produce a profit . mutuality in the sense of Ketley ' s Building Society in 1775 be a different concept completely . we therefore should always come back to the point he make that , for mutuality to succeed , it must be base on a civic , conservative and capitalist model . it can not work in any other way . my hon . friend make an excellent point and encourage I to wrap up my philosophising . he be right — I be not at all anti - profit ; it be about what be do with the profit . one of the genius of mutuality be that the profit be recycle back in to pursue the interest of those who put in the capital in the first place . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way again — I must not keep trespassing on the House ' s time , because I have a Bill come up later . do he agree that if we look at pension fund and the possibility of extend that sort of approach into social care , there would be a lot in the idea of mutuality ? also , on the point about profit , if those fund be invest in national good , such as important national infrastructure and thing of that sort , we could all benefit , but of course it have a financial aspect to it as well . again , my right hon . and learn Friend make the point even more eloquently than I be try to do , and he be right . I make this point in all seriousness : in so many area , such as infrastructure , as he say , I dream of a world in which people can put their own saving into mutual vehicle . I would love people to be able to invest in the Cambridge - Norwich railway development corporation to fund the regeneration of neglect station , or to create and fund investment vehicle . there be a whole wealth of instrument , vehicle and body root in that fertile period of 18th and 19th - century english capitalism , and scottish capitalism , too — the enlightenment in Edinburgh be a big part of it . we could draw on those model well in pursuit of many of our public sector objective . as I wrap up , I will return to the more mundane and practical issue . this be an important Bill for update the law and give building society a chance to get back to where they be in the early ' 90 . they be responsible for something like 60 % of the market ; they have drop down to 20 % . we want to help build society compete and get back to provide their core service to help those who want to save in building society , not bank , and first - time buyer who , particularly in my part of the world in Norfolk , do not have high salary and be look for a safe and reliable local building society that could hopefully help they acquire a local house build for they , rather than for commuter move into Norfolk . we need to think about the people who be drive public service and the rural economy . for first - time buyer , this be an important measure . as the hon . member for Sunderland Central say in introduce the Bill , increase lending capacity be in itself a huge step forward . I think the figure be £ 10 billion of extra lending capacity , which will allow the provision of another 20 , 000 mortgage . that be hugely important , particularly for first - time buyer . I conclude by genuinely congratulate and thank the hon . Lady for bring the Bill forward , the Government for work with she and we on it , and all those who have help . the Bill strike a small but important blow and send a key signal that build society be back . we want to support and help they as part of a broad commitment to civic , small , local - platoon connect capital that can help people in community up and down this country to save and withdraw money in the way they need , which will support the local economy on which the national economy be build . I congratulate the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) on bring forward this important Bill . as have be say , she have support across the House . it be with some trepidation that I follow my hon . friend the Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) : he have take the debate into a much wide context , as I also intend to do , although from an urban and community banking perspective . he be absolutely right about the importance of civic activity and community - base financial service , and the Bill go a little way towards trigger that by bring about a level playing field between build society and bank so that they can compete more fairly . the Bill will support build society to do more lending in a safe and secure way , and it be welcome by many , as the hon . member for Sunderland Central say , include the Building Societies Association . it be a great starting point , but the economic landscape continue to change and building society need the opportunity to remain competitive , so secondary legislation will be require to ensure that change to regulation for other financial service provider be match by update the framework for building society . the Government consult on similar change in 2022 , and the Bill largely mirror the proposal from the consultation , which be welcome by the industry . there be some modest but fundamental change in the Bill that be really important . building society be found to help work people to own a home of their own , and their mutual status mean that their sole purpose be to serve their customer . they direct a great proportion of their lending to first - time buyer than bank do , but they be constrain by archaic legislation unfit for today ' s economy . without this small but important piece of legislation , the competitive playing field in lending be not as level as it could or should be . under the Building Societies Act 1986 , build society be subject to funding limit that their high street banking competitor be not . those limit require at least half their funding to come from saving deposit make by retail saver . in area such as Stoke - on - Trent , both the average saving and the number of saver be low than in more affluent area , and consequently small local building society be restrict in the number of mortgage they can offer , even though they be need . the propose change to the 1986 Act will not alter the funding limit but , as the hon . Lady outline , they will remove certain key impediment , thereby enable building society to lend more and ensure that more mortgage loan be available to UK homebuyer at competitive rate , and , crucially , to first - time buyer , who be the lifeblood of the housing market , as well as those further up the ladder . indeed , the Bill seek to unlock billion of pound of extra lending for first - time buyer and homeowner . it be estimate that for every £ 10 billion of new lending capacity that be unlocked there be the potential to support an additional 20 , 000 average first - time buyer . risk need to be manage , but small building society in particular should not be tar with the same brush as high street bank . regulation need to be simplify and make easy for they , because within their customer base they cater for a group of people who be on the edge of mainstream banking . if local building society do not exist , some people would be entirely disenfranchise by banking , so their mission be a social one as much as a financial one . the banking sector have essentially become a risk management business . as build society grow , they manage more risk and the regulator be not keen to take that on . although the inertia that create be understandable , it make it incredibly difficult to change the system . one particular issue on which I have campaign for some time be the one - size - fit - all regulation that burden small lender and stifle innovation in the banking and non - banking financial sector . the Netflix movie " Bank of Dave " , which tell the story of Dave Fishwick ' s journey try to open a community bank in Burnley , hit the top 10 in America four day after its release and capture the imagination of the british public last year . Dave ' s innovative idea make sense to the nation , but the exist regulatory framework do not seem able to adapt and respond to they . I have be work with Dave Fishwick and forward - think organisation in the financial service sector to push for a simple regulatory framework and to enable a model that can provide the template for the creation of community bank throughout the country . we do not have enough regional bank or facility such as build society , where those who serve local people understand their need . People do not want to be face with a computer that simply say no . if anywhere need a healthy local banking system in which local people feel include , it be Stoke - on - Trent — as well as Norfolk , of course . we need small business to be able to access loan and homebuyer to be able to secure mortgage from those who understand the people they be serve , and whose bottom line be help their community , rather than maximum profit . in our quest for economic growth , we know that the big growth sector be small business , which represent more than 95 % of all business , yet high street bank be not lend to they because they represent the high risk level . many small business need to borrow to grow , and the current option be not adequate , so let we enable the small challenger bank and community development finance institution to flourish , and make it easy for build society to lend more to first - time buyer . build society offer a huge opportunity . they be community pay for the community , which matter hugely in place like Stoke - on - Trent where there be a great sense of place and pride and people want to help each other . building society can offer more to the community than high street bank because they have a social mission . I recently speak to Hanley Economic building society in my constituency , and it share its plan to use fund from dormant account to invest in local project . it still protect the dormant account holder 100 % , but in the meantime want to use the business to make a difference in Stoke - on - Trent . it make sense , because it use local people ' s money to invest in local project . modernise the legislation on building society be long overdue . building society be found to help work people to own a home of their own and be an essential part of our community . in order to be sustainable , build society need to be allow to grow , at least at the pace of the rest of the sector . in order to do that , they need to lend , but without the retail funding that the Bill would allow , they can not do so effectively . other sector , whether that be mutual or friendly society , have have similar update to bring their regulation in line with competition in the sector , so this be a crucial opportunity to enable build society to do the same . the Bill be an important starting point , and primary legislation be need , but as the economic landscape change build society need the opportunity to remain competitive , so secondary legislation will be necessary to ensure that the legal framework be up to date . that include measure to tidy up anomaly in the 1986 Act . one long overdue piece of legal housekeeping be to make the director ’ retirement age provision in the Act explicitly consistent with the Equalities Act 2010 . section 60 ( 8 ) of the 1986 Act state that the normal retirement age for a director of a building society be 70 . a retirement age for plcs use to be set out in the Companies Act , but after the Equality Act 2010 outlaw age discrimination , the provision be delete from the Companies Act . nevertheless , the statutory normal retirement age have not be remove from the 1986 Act . it may seem like a silly example , but it currently mean that there be two contradictory statutory provision . it would be much well if the retirement - age provision of the 1986 Act be remove , as have happen for plcs . simply because a director have just have their 70th birthday — I feel this personally — do not mean they be no long competent . they have huge amount of experience , they understand the market , and fire they would be demonstrably wrong for the business . the Bill will support building society to well weather period of financial stress and help to minimise risk in the banking sector . building society have around 1 , 300 branch . as we hear early , that be down by around a fifth compare with 2015 , but the number of bank branch have decline even fast , more than halve since 2015 , so there be a real need for more locally base lending in community throughout the country , as well as more encouragement of saving that stay in the community to support lending . the change in the Bill will help to level the play field for build society to compete more fairly with bank , and will support they to do more lending . crucially , as the building society sector direct a great proportion of lend to first - time buyer compare with bank , that will benefit more people look to get on to the housing ladder . increase lending be essential to the UK ' s future prosperity and economic growth . in 2021 , the Bank of England launch a project call " strong and Simple " , the aim of which be simplification and which go to the heart of what I be say early . small building society , and small bank and other lending institution , spend far too much of their time have to comply with regulation that be write for high street bank and large global billion - pound or billion - dollar business . if thing be make less onerous for they , they could innovate more and proliferate throughout the country . " a strong and simple prudential framework for non - systemic bank and building society " , publish by the Prudential Regulation Authority , set out a vision for simplify the prudential requirement for small , domestic - focus bank and building society while maintain those firm ’ resilience . the invitation to comment seem to have meet with resistance from the risk - averse industry , which in my view be base on penalise the minnow while protect the giant , so inertia reign and progress be slow . I hope that small change such as those propose today to make for fairer competition will be the forerunner of large reform , such as a new framework for small domestic deposit taker that will enable the financial service sector to embrace change for the benefit of the most marginalised and under - serve community and business . I be pleased to follow my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) , who make an excellent case for the importance of both the local aspect of build society and the way in which they help people in her community , and other people in deprive community who need to get on to the housing ladder . I congratulate the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) on her good fortune in secure the top slot in the ballot , which be like win the lottery for we parliamentarian on the Back Benches . her choice of Bill be a tribute to the seriousness with which she have take that good fortune and that responsibility . the Bill be important to my constituent in Dover and Deal and the local village , and it will have an impact on the whole country , which really matter . I strongly welcome the Bill ' s aim : to begin to level the play field between bank and building society by update the funding rule for building society — which will enable they , as we have hear , to raise additional capital , and will open up competition for the benefit of customer in the mortgage and saving market while retain that critical mutual model , and without reduce financial stability — and also to modernise arrangement for meeting and the execution of deed . I be a proud member of Principality building society . I serve for six year as a main board director and chair the group risk committee . I have a passion for the importance of mutual in general and build society in particular . we have hear of other mutual and other not - for - profit organisation such as housing association , and I agree with what be say by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) , but building society be vital in have purpose as well as , for instance , provide fund . during my time at Principality I face an annual re - election to the board at the annual general meeting , as do every other board director , include the chief executive . every year now , as a member of the building society , if I be unable to attend the AGM in person I can vote electronically . that annual act of receive and respond to the AGM paper connect I directly and personally to my building society . I enjoy look at the paper and consider the performance and the objective of the society , and read about the current board member . let I turn first to the Bill ' s proposal to allow member to attend and speak at agm remotely , as well as to vote . hybrid and , indeed , virtual - only meeting have become more common since covid . it will be important to consider how a decision to use hybrid arrangement will be make , and who will make it . for example , will member be consult ? will it be the sole decision of the chief executive , or will it be a decision for the whole board ? it will be important to ensure that a decision to proceed with virtual arrangement do not diminish effective participation , and that the decision be not make for other reason , such as to cut cost or to hold an agm somewhere more difficult for member to get to , on the basis that they can participate virtually . this particularly matter because , as the House have recognise , physical attendance have a special value . it should be note that , in this Chamber , it be perfectly possible to have virtual debate , virtual questioning of Ministers and even virtual voting , all of which happen during the covid pandemic , but we now meet in person , debate in person , question Ministers in person and , over many hour and often late into the evening , vote in person . although often consider , further modernisation of this place have be reject . many member may share the view that more could be do to modernise Parliament far , but it must be note that be together in one place have particular benefit that carry much weight . on Lords amendment 22b to the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill , we recently vote not to allow council meeting to be hold with virtual participation . the basis of the Government ' s position , set out by Earl Howe in their lordship ' House , include the need for councillor to interact with citizen and to be hold accountable . when I be a board member at Principality , I be subject to the scrutiny of the member who attend the AGM and the interaction and engagement that come with that . I enjoy and look forward to those agm , which be well organised and well attend . year after year , member would come to chat and have a cup of tea with the board of director , which be really important . I remember one of my regular , Mrs Jones , who would come along with Mr Jones , who say rather less . Mrs Jones would invariably take I to task on the rate of interest on saving , ask why it could not be high . member would comment on financial performance and the saving rate , and many take huge interest and pride in the building society ' s purpose and passion , be that the commitment to first - time buyer or the commitment to build home . principality become the first building society in recent time to put " build " back into " building society . " building society be root in build home for home ownership . I champion this renaissance at Principality , with the Ely Mill development create quality , affordable home and hundred of new job on a brownfield industrial site in Cardiff . the first - of - its - kind project be lead by Principality Commercial and the Welsh Government , lead the way for other building society to consider how they could reconnect with their house building root . the project be an exemplar in how to remediate brownfield land in a way that capture value and improve viability for development , and it show again how the community purpose , focus and interest bring forward by be a building society root , embed and commit to its community can make a difference . I know at first hand that the discussion and feedback at an AGM be every bit as important for an effective board as the discussion and feedback we might have at meeting with our constituent , or in the Lobbies and corridor of Parliament , be for we . although the provision to allow hybrid agm be a welcome step forward , we should not ignore the caution or concern to ensure that such change improve , and do not detract from , engagement , all the more so because , while company be already do this , a building society be not just another company . it be something very special and very different . that difference mean engagement , connection and participation with member . that be at the heart — in the very dna — of what it mean to be a building society . the experience of company have not always be to the benefit of shareholder participation . indeed , in 2022 the Financial Reporting Council issue guidance for good practice in remote corporate meeting , with a particular focus on annual general meeting . the guidance provide helpful insight into the sort of issue that may be beneficial for secure effective hybrid participation , include ensure that virtual moderation be transparent , that any character limit for text question be reasonable , and that there be fair representation between question ask virtually and in person . if building society choose to exercise that virtual opportunity , it will be important that they do so in line with similar good practice and their core value . they must never miss the wisdom and accountability that come from build society member such as Mrs Jones . clause 3 be a long - overdue amendment to align the execution of document for build society with that of company . it will be heartily welcome by company secretary and lawyer alike . I must say , as a former transactional lawyer in banking and finance , that ensure that the right authority be in place , that the right people under those authority sign the document , and that the document be complete in the right way , could not be more important . they be not legal unless that happen . as we consign those heavy seal to legal history , I look forward to they re - emerge in their new life as doorstop and bookend . let I turn to clause 1 on the funding structure of building society . build society support a great number of our constituent , as we have hear . there be around 26 million customer of the 42 building society , ably represent by the Building Societies Association . some of those building society be large and very familiar household name , such as Nationwide , while some be less well know nationally . many have geographical name , such as Leeds Building Society , Coventry Building Society , the principality , the West Brom and many other . that local aspect be key to understanding what make building society so special . they be not just mutual ; they be root firmly in and for community . the funding structure with which building society begin , which have evolve — and the further evolution of which we be debate today — be not that of a bank . the description of their history have be set out fully and ably by the hon . member for Sunderland Central . the clue , of course , be in the name : the building society . they be club of ordinary people who come together for a purpose : to get a home of their own . what an extraordinary and wonderful purpose . how very relevant that be today , as it ever be . the whole House know that we be not build enough home , and that the rental market be in dire need of urgent reform and , indeed , of reduction in favour of home ownership and affordable rent housing . surely we must be due a revival of co - operative , mutual housing delivery that promote and enable the funding and building of home just like those early building society . that may be something to consider far in Committee . the Bill have secure cross - party support . in that spirit , I echo the word of the first Labour Prime Minister , Ramsay MacDonald , who say that no movement of co - operative self - help be more worthy of support than that of the building society . he say : " a house should be an expression of a personality , and wherever it be possible it ought to be own , not merely rent . would that every workman could own his own house , just as he own his clothe . " those word resonate through the decade . as we have hear , it be on the conservative Benches that there have be a long - stand commitment to mutuality . the conservative Prime Minister Mr Stanley Baldwin write of the expansion of the building society movement that council should use the power of co - operation enable by the Chamberlain Act to work with building society : imagine — local authority work closely with build society to deliver home for local people . he write : " they afford abundant evidence of the grow popularity of the Building Society as a medium for the investment of saving , and of the success which have be achieve in the encouragement of thrift and independence , which be one of the main objective of the founder of the movement . these figure indicate also a steady increase of the number of those who be become owner of their own home … the work and aim of the Building Societies will commend themselves to all think people . " how right he be . as we look at this Bill , we should have firmly in the front of our mind those purposive element of access to home ownership for work people to have a home of their own , and the public and private benefit of saving , thrift and independence ; they be as relevant today as they ever be , and solution to such issue for ordinary work people be need as much as ever . link saving and home ownership be so important . indeed , during my time at Principality I be pleased to have the support of the Treasury Committee Chair , my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Harriett Baldwin ) , in my work to promote a building society ISA , which become the help to buy ISA , to make that link through a government - back housing deposit saving scheme . although building society strive to maintain a distinct and clear purpose and function , the current regulatory and legal framework put they at a disadvantage to the dominantly financial purpose of bank . today we be look at what the Bill will do to address that disadvantage and level the play field , but I encourage member to consider how they too might lead the way . in Dover and Deal , we have a proud tradition of mps and mayor be directly involve in the building society movement . it be a mayor of Dover , William Clarke , who set up the Dover Investment and Mutual Building Society — one of the early terminate society that we hear about early — and it be a Member of Parliament , Sir Brook Bridges , who head the Dover Cottage Building and Improvement Society , base in Buckland in Dover . local people and business have be involve throughout the history of the movement in Dover and east Kent . in 1846 , the Dover and East Kent Building Society and the Dover Investment and Mutual Building Society feel in competition with each another — at one point , there be much rivalry between different organisation . as the movement develop , there be also the establishment in 1850 of the Dover Permanent Benefit Society , which take in the Dover Cottage Building and Improvement Society that have be set up by Sir Brook Bridges MP some year before . the list go on , with example of people ' s active engagement , active leadership , and active participation in create , lead and deliver mutual model base and embed in the community they represent . all member of Parliament and those in local governance role have that opportunity to lead , establish and show the way . I very much commend the excellent history of those build society in the Dover Historian — produce by local historian Lorraine Sencicle — as an excellent insight into the development and role of people and place for the benefit of provide housing . let I turn to today ' s change and the matter of level the play field . the banking market dominate the mortgage market but that be not always the case . as recently as the early 1980 , build society hold the dominant position in the mortgage market . liberalisation of the banking market during the 1980 create a massive change in participation in the mortgage market by the bank and increase mortgage fund availability . but now a small number of player dominate the market . Lloyds Banking Group be the big mortgage lender by outstanding balance in 2022 ; it have a 19 % market share of mortgage , which be nearly one in five mortgage across the country . the net effect of the change be a near - reversal of the position of dominance of the building society and that be a result of the financial market liberalisation and change in legislation and regulation . that be to the detriment of competition , price and availability for customer . the Bill will go some way to level the play field between build society and bank but there be more to do . let we consider a responsibly run financial entity like principality with its approval for run its own internal risk rating basis . that mean it be able to use its internal model to determine the risk rate asset and can decide , on the basis of these highly technical professional model , how much capital it need to cover its risk . it can do that ; it do not need to follow the standard one - size - fit - all for other organisation . this be a tough regulatory hurdle require detailed and extensive engagement with the PRA and the Bank of England , and I can say at first hand that it be a tough threshold require forensic and detailed work because I make it one of my key priority to help secure that approval when I chair the group risk committee at Principality . it be take very seriously and only responsibly run financial entity with very good technical and risk management be allow to do that . we should compare that with other bank such as Metro Bank , which have be a fail bank due to poor financial control and inadequate system , include a serious accounting scandal . time and again Metro have be on the financial brink so no wonder it have be reject for its airb — advanced internal rating - base — approval . for too long successive government have not back our establish responsible building sector movement and instead have favour fail or second - rate challenger bank . I hope this matter will be explore far in Committee , but I also hope the Minister will reflect far on it . turn to deposit funding , the context of clause 1 be that build society must fund 50 % of their fund from customer deposit — in other word , from customer saving account . as we have hear , the Bill do not change the percentage but do propose to change the calculation for three funding type . this will enable build society to go far towards the 50 % threshold than currently ; it will give they great flexibility and allow they to well manage their funding stream and the price and availability of product in the interest of both the customer and competition . however , the current dominant deposit funding approach to customer saving that apply to build society still put build society at a disadvantage to bank in other way that be not fully take into account . the Financial Services Compensation Scheme operate on the basis of size of deposit rather than size of the risk . that disadvantage build society because they be finance largely by their deposit while the bank be finance largely by their wholesale market . building society will have more deposit and therefore will have a large amount of deposit with regard to their overall liability under the scheme . alongside today ' s amendment , I hope the Bill Committee will consider the operation of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme to level the play field for build society , include increase the deposit protection amount from £ 85 , 000 to £ 100 , 000 to capture more account , give the role of build society in have saver ; to provide well and separate protection for small and medium - sized business , which should be fund by those who provide SME banking service ; and to provide fast access for customer in get hold of their compensation when there be a failure , by fund it from the Bank of England , with recovery to follow either from the fail entity or , if necessary , the FSCS levy . finally , I will comment on the three propose exception to the funding limit that we be address today . these will enable build society to raise additional capital and open up competition for the benefit of customer in the mortgage and saving market , while retain their mutual model and without reduce financial stability . the first change be to exclude the Bank of England ' s support fund from the funding limit . those fund be make available precisely for the purpose of manage financial stress event . they should not artificially dilute the calculation of saving ratio that be hold by the building society . the amendment in the Bill will address that issue . the third exception be to end the current double counting of sale and purchase agreement that support great liquidity in challenging market . that mean that building society will be able to well test and manage liquidity in a situation where there be a market event to which they will apply those sale and purchase of asset agreement . the second exception be to exclude financial instrument that be structure to act as a form of equity for regulated capital purpose , include — under the late capital rule — core capital defer share , which be a form of common equity tier 1 . put simply , it be a form of capital raising that be entirely consistent with the mutual ethos and strengthen , rather than dilute , the regulatory core equity limit require for financial stability . it bring in more capital to the building society , enable it to do more for customer . there be undoubtedly more scope for permanent mutual share and bond to bring significant long - term investment into building society , housing and other asset . that have happen in some other country , such as Australia . I understand that the Treasury have assess that the overall effect of those three change in relation to capital raising may be modest — but they should not be . there be an opportunity for a significant expansion of mutual funding structure . I hope that that will be consider far in Committee , include further step to level the play field and introduce effective competition from well - run and well - capitalise building society . I be grateful to the hon . member for Sunderland Central for introduce this Bill , which I strongly support . as she have say , it have the support of Government , the Building Societies Association , and the sector and its member — it will be helpful . I would be very pleased to support the hon . Lady ' s work in Committee if that would be helpful to she . I extend my thank to the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) for bring this Bill before the House . it be an honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) , who make a number of excellent point . across the country , build society have a fascinating tale to tell about how they have become part of the social and economic fabric of the area . in my constituency of West Bromwich East , we have the headquarters of the West Brom , as it be now know , but myself and my constituent still refer to it as the West Bromwich building society . I must declare an interest : like many of my constituent , I have have a savings account with that building society since I be a child . I still have that little purple book . the West Brom be originally call the Co - operative Steelworkers ' Society of West Bromwich . it be found on St George ' s day in 1849 by 20 local citizen who appeal for people to avail themselves of the advantage of the society and thereby become their own landlord . the initial gathering of found member take place at the former Paradise Street Methodist chapel in West Bromwich , mark the establishment of one of the early building society of its kind . it come as absolutely no surprise to I at all that the people of West Bromwich East , just like those in the rest of the Black Country , have a strong history of be innovative and respect hard work , independence and thrift . the society aim to enable its member to acquire property from the fruit of their own honest industry and frugality , from a common fund raise by member ' contribution pay fortnightly , together with a facility to provide the safe deposit of money in large or small sum , as either temporary or permanent investment . over the year , the West Brom continue to grow and flourish amid period of economic prosperity and a rise in demand for housing in the Black Country . it be worthy of mention that in 1881 , a time when there be only 946 building society across England and Wales boast an average membership of 330 and receipt total just over £ 17 , 000 , the West Brom stand out with over 2 , 500 member and an income exceed £ 60 , 000 . in 1923 , the Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain introduce the Housing Act 1923 , which incentivise the private sector to engage in the extensive construction of housing , which be desperately need . as a result , unlike its neighbouring area , the town of West Bromwich experience relatively low rate of unemployment during the depression , lead to strong support for build society such as the West Bromwich . the West Bromwich have always be see as one of the well manage and most successful society . its reputation for prudent lending and sound management enable it to grow and consolidate its position during world war two and the post - war year , and to weather the storm of the early 1990 recession and property market slump . since its establishment , West Bromwich Building Society have undergo several relocation on West Bromwich high street before settle into its purpose - build headquarters at Providence Place in West Bromwich in 2016 . one of the first constituency visit I make after I be elect to this place in 2019 be to the West Brom , where I be delighted to meet chief executive Jonathan Westhoff and learn about its endure focus as a traditional building society . it provide a secure haven for its saver ' fund and enable individual to achieve the ultimate goal of home ownership . as a mutual entity , those principle have guide the West Brom since its inception in 1849 . like all build society , the principal motivation behind every decision and course of action that the West Brom take have be the wellbeing of its member . through initiative such as the community grant scheme and dedicated funding , the West Brom have significantly contribute to our local community in West Bromwich , the Black Country and the wide west midland . I be sure that many other hon . member will have similar story to tell about their local building society in their constituency — we have hear many already today . I be sure that many will continue to hold account with they . an example of how much local people value West Bromwich Building Society be that last July , the Black Country Living Museum open its own branch of the West Brom , which be set in 1949 and replicate the former premise in Cape Hill , Smethwick . I go there last summer , and it be amazing to see the beautiful old building , with the little yellow book . it be a great way to teach child about the history of our local community , which we be really proud of , and about financial incentive to save and home ownership . the history of our local building society and their success in support their member in home ownership show we that this model continue to endure and deliver for our constituent . but all such institution must evolve . give the illustrious history of many of our building society , as I just outline , it be only right that we continue to support they , as the Bill do . I be pleased that the Government be support it , as it will go a long way to support the nearly 23 . 4 million investor and 3 . 5 million borrower who be member of the 42 building society in the UK . I know that many people in my constituency and across the country rely on build society for that most important function : provide their mortgage . although significantly few people use building society now than pre - 1997 , build society still account for more than a fifth of mortgage . I have hear for myself just how vital a community asset these financial institution be to so many people . I know that the Building Societies Association support the Bill and be especially pleased that the three type of funding outline in it be to be exclude from the 50 % member funding limit in the 1986 Act . although the Bill will not make a drastic change to the operation of our building society , it will allow they to raise a high proportion of their fund from source other than member saving . it have meet with the approval of the financial industry , and it follow a Government consultation publish in December 2021 , the response to which be publish in 2022 . it receive input from three building society , with broad consensus that this be the right change to make , especially as it will allow more flexibility in access liquidity . the Bill will allow building society to continue to play their unique role and maintain the gap between how they and the bank operate . it will reassure consumer and the industry that we support this important part of our financial service industry , equip building society as they embrace the change way we save , with increase online option . the example of West Bromwich be just one of many across our country . I look forward to continue to work with the industry to do what I can to support it in this place . I be pleased that the Government have listen to the result of the consultation and be continue to back our building society . this Bill be the perfect demonstration of that . I congratulate the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) on bring her Bill to the House . I refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a practise solicitor and a partner in a firm of solicitor . when mp stand up and say " everything in my speech have already be say , " it feel as if they be claim the credit for thing that they have not say . but have follow such outstanding speech — especially from my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) , who set out the technical case for why the Bill be need — I will keep my remark to what I would call the social and cultural case for build society . in a debate on another subject in this House , I have talk about the Gigg Lane football stadium in my constituency . what do that have to do with building society ? well , Gigg Lane be buy by a person in a capitalist society , but it be an institution of cultural and social value to the area in which it sit . the question I pose to the Minister in that debate be whether we view sport institution in the same way we view a branch of Tesco or Sainsbury ' s — great business though they be — or whether business and institution that act within the financial market but have a great history and social contribution to make to their local area should be view somewhat differently . there be an argument to make about build society in that respect . this debate make I nostalgic , because my university day be spend behind the counter at the Yorkshire Building Society in Huddersfield , where I work for many year . my hon . friend the Member for Dover speak about be a board member of a building society ; I know from my experience behind the counter talk to people that build society be important as not only financial but social institution . I use to see the same people come in every day , or certainly every week . it be about company ; it be about community ; it be about family . that have be reflect in hon . member ' remark today . the building society be an institution that have be in place since Ketley ' s be found in 1775 , as the hon . member for Sunderland Central note . it be an institution that have change to reflect society , but as politician we must do everything we can to protect it . the Bill be fundamentally about fairness in the market in which building society carry out their business . it be about allow they not only to do the social good that they have do for 250 year , but to survive . we could have a huge debate about these issue . the 1986 Act effectively allow society to demutualise and become fully fledge bank . we see the and Abbey National do that . speak as a as a capitalist , it should be a good thing to have freedom of choice within the market — but be it ? we have see what have happen to the market since then , as my hon . friend the Member for Dover ably set out . have it benefit the banking sector ? have it benefit the country ? have it benefit the people who be member of those great institution ? where I be from in Huddersfield , Halifax be a huge employer and a huge cultural institution , and sadly it have be somewhat diminish as a result of the action take and the opportunity that the 1986 Act give it . this piece of legislation be address some of the problem that the previous Act put in place . it be important to reflect briefly on the history of building society , as the hon . member for Sunderland Central ably do . they develop as a response to societal change and , as have be say , they be a means to allow people with ambition , who want to own their own home , access to capital to do that . it be a positive ; it be what I would call disraelian conservatism . I be nowhere near as articulate as my hon . friend the Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) in this respect , but to I , disraelian conservatism say that there be certain endure institution within society that Government and the state must do everything to protect . those institution can be view as the monarchy and all type of thing , but I think build society fall within that category . they do so much social good that we must be somewhat — and I hate use this word — protectionist to ensure that they be allow to flourish . if we look at the development of society and change within our society , self - terminate building society , which be terminate when all member have a house , be still go up until 1980 , when the First Salisbury and District Perfect Thrift — now that be a great name for a building society — come to an end . we have see legislation on this subject . we see the Building Societies Act 1874 , which provide legislative backing to allow for the growth of society , and by 1910 there be 1 , 723 society in existence across the country . after that , build society go into decline , but we see another period of expansion in the ' 60 and ' 70 ; the Building Societies Act 1962 , which grant further power to build society , be the charger for that . we can see that legislative amendment provide building society with the opportunity to develop their business , to thrive and to succeed in the market in which they sit . I think we have 42 or 43 building society leave , and it be fundamental that we allow those building society to thrive . we have talk at length about banking in rural area , but I also have concern about banking in somewhat urban area such as mine and , I be sure , in other constituency . in Ramsbottom , a great town within my constituency , there be no bank on the high street now . we have a banking hub , but I be afraid a banking hub do not provide the social benefit that a building society do . as a free - marketeer capitalist I be constantly look at the profit of a Barclays Bank , or any bank , and at its social good . if an institution have a profit of £ 1 . 6 billion , which I think Barclays do for the last quarter of 2023 , I wonder why there be not capacity within the system to maintain a branch presence in many town throughout the country . build society , in their social and moral mission , be fundamental to our financial sector . I do not intend to make further comment , because everything have be articulately set out , but we be bless in this country to have institution that have their origin in the mid - 1700s and have develop and respond to social and political need . let we bear in mind that build society effectively increase the franchise , because the only people who could vote in the 1800 be people who own a house . those who be vote would not have be able to do so unless building society have lend they the money , so they have have a huge impact in every way , shape and form . this amendment to the 1986 Act be about fairness , competition and benefit first time buyer . it have much to recommend it and I thoroughly support it . I will keep my comment brief , not least because we have have so many learned and expert speech , particularly from my hon . friend the Members for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) and for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) . that be not the only reason I intend to be brief . we have many important Bills that we want to discuss today , not least , of course , my own Pet Abduction Bill , which be come next . I congratulate the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) on introduce this important piece of legislation . I fully support it . I declare an interest immediately , as I have have a number of mortgage over my time . we have a mortgage with the Halifax and of course we have have various saving account , although none with building society at the moment . build society fulfil a fantastic purpose . they be often , as we have hear today , the last institution stand on many high street , still provide a face - to - face banking service . that be exactly what be happen in my constituency in Leigh - on - Sea , which I shall come on to . I welcome the Bill because it aim to put the building society on a more level playing field with other retail deposit taker , such as bank , particularly on their capital raising and corporate governance requirement . it will make they more competitive and they will therefore be more effective in the financial service sector . not only will build society offer more to consumer and my constituent , but they will offer well support to their member . I can only see positive , particularly give everything we have hear about the support that build society give to the first - time buyer and have give for many , many year . I be sure that we all have our story to tell about how exciting it be when we get our first mortgage and the key to our very first place — a flat , in my case — and about what an important step that be for we all . after someone get their first job and start to pay tax and make a first contribution to society and the economy , the next thing be get their first home and become a stakeholder in our property - own democracy . sadly , that experience be not available for as many young people as it be in my time . that be a cry shame , and I hope that the Bill will lead to build society begin to expand even more into that first - time market . what I really want to talk about be the fact that in recent year bank branch have close in Southend West . I do not have a single bank in my constituency offer that essential face - to - face service . I only have the Nationwide , a fantastic building society on Leigh Broadway . as the Member of Parliament for Nationwide , whose headquarters be in Swindon , I be delighted that my hon . friend mention that building society , its lead role in mutuality in this country and its commitment to high street branch , which be a vital lifeline for our community . I be grateful to she . I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend for his intervention . nationwide do so much in all constituency where there be a branch . my Nationwide in Leigh - on - Sea have a dedicated cost of living expert who be help the most vulnerable member of our society navigate the challenge cause by the cost of living crisis . the branch be also go out of its way to ensure that people who be not as tech savvy as some of the rest of we , particularly the elderly — I have a very elderly constituency on in Leigh - on - Sea — get that extra help . they have tea and tech event , which be very popular , that teach people how to use online banking and app to manage their money . Digital exclusion be a real problem in our society , and it be so encouraging that the building society be do so much more . I could wax lyrical about all the other thing that the Nationwide be do , but because of the Bill that be up next , I be not go to . I will end on the need for face - to - face banking service . the banking hub be a very good model , but none of the bank will provide such a hub if there be a building society that provide face - to - face service . but one should not exclude the other . I have be campaign on this issue , but this be a fitting moment to pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( Miss Dines ) for her " save our Banks " campaign , which I wholeheartedly endorse . I fully support the Bill and thank the hon . member for Sunderland Central for introduce it . I hope it will ensure that building society can do even more for their local community , not just in Southend West but across the whole country . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) on bring this important Bill to the House for debate . it be very lucky to get the first slot in the private Member ' s Bill ballot , but it also take a lot of work to find a Bill that generate such cross - party support and talk to such an important issue , as we have hear today . I hope you will indulge I for a minute , Madam Deputy Speaker , while I speak about the fabulous work that my hon . friend have do in the House , because it be not often that we get to talk about and congratulate our comrade in quite this way . my hon . friend , who have be in the House since 2010 , have do valuable work on the all - party parliamentary group on state pension inequality for woman , which I be sure everyone will recognise . before she be elect to the House , she work closely with the National Asthma Campaign to ensure that life be easy for people who suffer from asthma , as I do . I commend she for that and for all the work she do with the GMB to change the law around the compensation pay to victim of asbestos - relate disease . this be , then , not the first piece of legislation she have work on , but it be an important Bill and it show how value she be as a Member of the House . I know how closely my hon . friend have work with civil servant , Ministers and the Treasury to produce a Bill that have such cross - party support and of which Treasury Ministers approve . from my dealing with they , I know that that be rare . I be delighted to say that the opposition will back the Bill wholeheartedly today . I also acknowledge the important work of Labour ' s sister party the Co - operative party , and the wide mutual sector , include the Building Societies Association and Nationwide . they have spend a great deal of time feed into the Bill . as have be say throughout the debate , build society have a long and proud tradition of support work people to access affordable finance . the sector continue to play an invaluable role in promote financial responsibility and resilience among its member , include by support young family to take their first step on to the housing ladder . build society direct a great proportion of their lending to first - time buyer than any other part of the financial service sector . they support 70 , 000 first - time buyer in the first three quarter of 2023 , and since 2020 building society have support 360 , 000 first - time buyer — that be more than £ 63 billion provide to help people to buy their first home . the Bill be so important because it will empower society across the UK to raise more fund and help our vulnerable constituent . as my hon . friend the Member for Sunderland Central set out in her compelling speech , her Bill could unlock significant additional lending capacity from build society to support more work people to become homeowner . the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) talk about how every £ 10 billion of new lending capacity , secure through the change in the Bill , will potentially support an additional 20 , 000 first - time buyer . I agree wholeheartedly with everything he say ; dare I say , some of his comment sound quite socialist — [ interruption . ] I see he do not agree with I about that . the debate have be interesting because I have agree with lot of the member who have speak . in fact , the hon . member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) even quote the first Labour Prime Minister favourably . there be plenty of space on the Labour Benches if anyone ever want to come across . building society have never be more important in the UK ' s economy and public life . as a result of the cost of living crisis , many family have , as have be note , be force to use their saving in the face of rise energy price and food price . but building society have continue to support people to save and to build financial resilience during this very difficult period . they attract £ 18 . 9 billion in cash saving during the first nine month of last year . they be buck the trend of the decline in saving balance that we have see across the wide sector . building society have prove resilient in the face of hardship . lot of Conservative Members speak about the role that the sector play during the pandemic . leed building society , find that the request for mortgage deferral have increase to 2 , 000 a day , increase its use of robotic process - automation technology to create a fully automate web form for customer . at Nationwide , a team of mortgage , technology and AI specialist train the society ' s virtual assistant , Arti , to handle common covid - relate mortgage query . such resilience have allow the sector to support its member , whether through covid or the current cost of living crisis , which be why clause 1 of the Bill be so important . it will allow building society to exclude from the funding limit fund access from the Bank of England in stress scenario , type of loss - absorb debt instrument , and sale and repurchase agreement . that will level the play field with bank and provide an extra level of protection for building society during time of financial crisis , so that they can continue to support their member for many decade to come . as I mention , in recent year we have see many building society adapt to new challenge and adopt exciting technology and digital way of work . principality building society have deliver an online mortgage payment holiday service in partnership with the fintech company Podium Solutions . the service allow member to access a mortgage holiday repayment calculator and an online application process to well understand their mortgage outcome . the change introduce by clause 2 , which would allow real - time virtual participation in annual general meeting , be long overdue . building society have prove time and time again their ability to innovate and adapt to change consumer behaviour . I agree with what the hon . member for Dover say about other place have move on , but in Parliament we do it face to face . we should cater to change consumer behaviour , and there be no reason to subject the sector to outdate restriction that do not apply to the wide financial service sector . clause 3 pave the way for reduce the administrative burden in respect of execute document . similar provision be already in place for bank . that be why I will enthusiastically support the Bill . Labour believe that further legislation be need to level the play field , secure the future of the sector and achieve our ambition of double the size of the mutual and co - operative sector , in which building society play a critical part . that be why Labour have commit to require financial service regulator to report annually to Parliament on how they have consider the specific need of mutual , include build society . labour recognise the Bill as an important step forward and will give it our full support today . I look forward to be on the same page as the Treasury Minister , he will be pleased to know . and a final word of congratulation to my hon . friend the Member for Sunderland Central , who have do a tremendous job of put together this important Bill . I , too , congratulate the hon . member for Sunderland Central ( Julie Elliott ) on , first , be lucky , and secondly , choose to be impactful by introduce a Bill that will help to support the future growth and success of the mutual sector . I understand that her husband , Andrew Fletcher , be in the Gallery today to observe her performance . I be sure he will be rightly proud of the work she be do with other to make a real impact on people ' s live right across the country . I know that she be drive by a desire to support building society so that they be able to compete on a level playing field with retail bank , and I be pleased to say that the Government share that desire . that message have also be clear from the Members ’ speech . I will run through some of the comment we have hear — there be some excellent speech . the speech by my hon . friend the Member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) , with his insight on Labour co - operativism and civic conservatism , be a true tour de force . as always , he speak passionately about the importance of mutual in rural area . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) speak warmly about the importance of community banking and mutual in more urban area , reiterate the importance of those institution right across the country . I agree completely with her comment about the contribution of the over - 70 in society . my hon . friend the Member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) speak passionately and knowledgably about her experience with mutual , and with principality in particular . she raise point about the logistic of arrange virtual meeting and a few other matter . I will certainly ensure that the City Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Hitchin and Harpenden ( Bim Afolami ) , be aware of some of her comment . she speak warmly about the human experience she have and about her interaction with Mr and Mrs Jones . in this sometimes remote area of banking , we be deal still with human being . in a rare experience , we also hear somebody volunteer to be a member of a Bill Committee . my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) speak of her affection for the West Brom and the role of mutual in the west midland , particularly in promote and encourage the habit of save among young people and promote home ownership via mortgage . my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) lay out the strong case for the social and cultural impact of build society . he speak about nostalgia , but make it clear that we all need to work together to ensure that build society and mutual also have a thriving future . my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) express her appreciation for the physical presence of so many building society that be still on our high street , particularly in the context of digital exclusion . we want to ensure that building society be support so that they can continue to give people great choice in where they put their saving , get their mortgage or , in some case , open their current account . today , I want to do two thing . first , I will set out why the Government value the mutual sector , demonstrate by recent step we have take to ensure that legislation be update so that they be able to grow , compete and succeed in the future . of course , many have refer to the recent consultation on some of those matter . secondly , I will briefly outline why the Government be fully supportive of the objective and principle of the Bill , and I hope the hon . member for Sunderland Central will set I right if I misinterpret the detail of her Bill in any way . the Government recognise the valuable contribution that mutual business play in the UK economy , as well as in the local community in which they operate . their unique ownership model mean that those business be drive by the core value of openness and collaboration . every member get a vote and therefore a direct say in how the business operate . give their unique ethos and desire to drive positive change in society , as well as the vital role they play in our economy , it be natural that the Government have commit to support the mutual sector to ensure their place in our future . for example , through the Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 , the Government amend the Credit Unions Act 1979 so that , since last summer , credit union in Great Britain have be able to offer a great range of product and service . to date , the Government have allocate £ 145 million in dormant asset funding to fair4all Finance , which work to improve the availability of affordable credit , include through support for community finance provider , thereby strengthen the growth of credit union . moreover , last year the Government support the private Member ' s Bill of the hon . member for Preston ( Sir Mark Hendrick ) , which achieve Royal Assent in June 2023 . the Government continue to develop a modern and supportive business environment and have ask the Law Commission to conduct review of the Co - operative and Community Benefit Societies Act 2014 and the Friendly Societies Act 1992 . to far support the sector , the Government be also progress secondary legislation change to the Building Societies Act 1986 , deliver on the Edinburgh reform . alongside this Bill , those change will help to modernise the 1986 Act , help build society to grow and compete on a more level playing field with the retail bank . the Government see this private Member ' s Bill as a great way to support building society , ensure that they can compete with retail bank on a more level playing field while continue to provide essential competition within the UK financial service sector . the Bill will deliver on key ask from the building society sector . as the hon . member for Sunderland Central set out , it make provision in three key area : fund that can be disregard by a building society for the purpose of calculate its wholesale funding limit ; allow real - time virtual member participation in build society meeting ; and align provision in relation to the execution of deed and other document with those of company law . I will comment briefly on each of those . the 1986 Act set out building society ' distinctive model and other legal requirement . under the Act , build society be require to obtain at least 50 % of their funding from individual retail deposit , thus ensure that the member be the primary owner . that funding limit be a key feature of building society ' unique ownership model , ensure that these business be mutually own and run for the benefit of their member . while retain that at - least - 50 % funding model , and thereby maintain building society ' unique characteristic and core value , this Bill will enable the exclusion of three key source of funding from count towards the wholesale funding limit , which be access or hold for regulatory purpose . those will be far specify by the Treasury in secondary legislation . the other amendment the Bill make to the 1986 Act relate to the modernisation of building society ' corporate governance requirement , so that they can operate under the same modern governance flexibility as company . the first of those be an amendment to the 1986 Act to allow for the option of real - time virtual participation at build society meeting , which my hon . friend the Member for Dover focus on in her speech . that change will help to modernise the day - to - day practice of these society , promote great membership engagement and improve the accessibility of these meeting . this will be update in line with rule for retail bank operate under the Companies Act 2006 , thus ensure that build society and retail bank be afford the same flexibility . the second amendment to build society ' corporate governance requirement relate to common seal and the execution of document . this Bill will provide the Treasury with the power to make secondary legislation to align the constitutional provision in part 2 of the 1986 Act with update to company law concern common seal and the execution of document . that will give building society useful flexibility that will ensure that they continue to operate on a level playing field with retail bank . I have outline the Government ' s support for the private Member ' s Bill bring forward by the hon . member for Sunderland Central on Second Reading today , and I again congratulate she on it . we expect that the Bill will be greatly welcome by the mutual sector , and it clearly have support from member across the House . the Government intend to work closely with the hon . Lady in progress this legislation through Parliament . the Government ' s goal , and the goal of this Bill , be to modernise the Building Societies Act 1986 , so that build society be able to scale , grow and succeed into the future . for those reason , the Bill have the Government ' s wholehearte support . with the leave of the House , let I say what a pleasure it have be to speak in a debate in which everyone be on the same side — it be a refreshing change . it be not usual and the Minister must not think it will be the future of our confrontation . let I thank so many member for come in this morning and take part in the debate . all of they have give a slightly different perspective on why building society be so important , and I want to refer to just a few of the point raise . I certainly do not expect this morning ' s debate to contain so much political history , be it on civic Conservatism or labour history . however , I have to inform the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) that the clause IV to which I refer be clause IV of the new Labour party , under the leadership of the former right hon . member for Sedgefield , which be introduce in 1995 — a very different clause iv from the old one . I also want to thank the hon . member for Mid Norfolk for raise the issue of rural community and village . I come from a beautiful village call Whitburn , in the constituency of my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) , so I completely understand the way in which village rely on the service of local shop and business . the hon . member may not be surprised to learn that the more deprived part of the country , most of which be in my constituency , face many of the same issue as rural community . I must also mention the contribution of the hon . member for Dover ( Mrs Elphicke ) , who have so much experience in this context . in fact , I first meet she when she be do her work in building society . she have do a huge amount of work and probably understand the Bill well than anyone in the House , include I — this have be a sharp learning curve . it be nice that she quote Ramsay MacDonald , the first Labour Prime Minister . as we have be present with such an array of political history today , I should add that Monday will be the 100th anniversary of the first Labour Government . as I say in my opening speech , this Bill be simple , straightforward and modernising . these be little measure that can make a massive difference , and I hope that when we discuss housing in the future , we can refer back to the difference they will make in free up more money and modernise the system to enable more people , particularly first - time buyer , to get on to the housing ladder . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Pet Abduction Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . Britain be a nation of animal lover . our pet be part of our family . they comfort we when we be down and give we a huge amount of laughter , energy and joy when we be up — and , in fact , all the time . they make a house a home . that be why it be so heartbreaking when any one of our beloved pet be snatch away from we , and it be also why the taking , abduct or detaining of someone else ' s beloved pet be such a sick and cruel crime . I would be devastate if my own lovely cavapoochon , Lottie — who , I might add , be rob at the Westminster dog show this year , but she will be back next year , go for the full prize — or one of my two cat , Merlin and Marmalade , be abduct , and I know that my esteemed predecessor Sir David Amess feel exactly the same about his beloved pug , Lilly and Bo . I want to pause for a moment and remember Sir David , who be the national champion of pet . he not only chair our last debate on pet reform , in Westminster Hall , but contribute to it . I clearly have a few trick still to learn . it be always a privilege to build on Sir David ' s legacy , and I have choose to stand in this particular place in the hope that a few member might just look behind I . let we hope his light remain as we discuss this Bill . in my constituency , the wonderful Ann Cushion co - found a social enterprise call know as Tilly ' s Angels , alongside Helene Leader . tilly ' s Angels unite owner with lose dog and cat . it be start in 2016 and have grow enormously . Ann and Helene now have a team of 18 dedicated volunteer , and their Facebook page be follow by nearly 27 , 000 people in Southend ' s SS postcode area . I be proud that we have seven Tilly ' s Angels with we in the Public Gallery today . in September 2021 , a few month before I be elect , Ann be volunteer , help to locate other people ' s miss dog and cat , when she go on a fly - by visit to her sister . on return to her van , its door be open and all four of her beautiful rescue dog — Mandy , Micky , Ruby and Chara — be go . she still remember the sinking , sicken feeling of see those four empty dog crate . she describe it to I as be as if her baby have be take , " the pain be indescribable . " of course , it be ironic give the good work that she have be do for many year to help other in the same situation . luckily , because of Tilly ' s Angels , 20 people be out look within an hour . within day an army of volunteer have swing into action , and her dog be recover in drib and drab . of course , the vast majority of these story be not happy . the data show that only 12 % of steal pet find their way back to their owner . the vast majority — 88 % , or over 2 , 000 dog and cat every year — be not recover , which be devastating for those family and owner . cat theft , which be include in my Bill , be just as harrowing . helene from Tilly ' s Angels tell I of a lady who go into Colchester Hospital for cancer treatment , leave she four cat in the care of a neighbour , only to find on leave hospital that not only have the lady move but she have take the four cat with she , leave no forwarding address or contact detail . how do people do that ? it be unbelievable , isn ' t it ? incredibly , two of the cat later reappear in Leigh - on - Sea . I support the Bill , especially in memory of my dear friend David Amess . I be a dog owner , but one thing that slightly worry I be that cat be prone to wander , which be why we love they . kindly old lady sometimes see a wandering cat , pick they up and take they home , feel that they be look after they . can my hon . friend assure I that innocent lady who pick up cat will not be enmesh in this law ? I thank my right hon . friend for make an important point . the two offence be slightly different . the offence of dog abduction will be the taking and detaining of a dog , whereas only the taking , and not the detaining , of a cat will be criminalise , because cat roam . the behaviour of the two animal be different . there be also a defence of reasonable excuse . we do not seek to criminalise the good behaviour and good intention of old lady and many other people . I be hugely supportive of the Bill . the pain , upset and grief of lose a pet in these circumstance be terrible , as have be very well illustrate . not every cat be a roam cat . there be some very beautiful breed — I might say the most special breed — such as the Ragdoll that bless my household , that do not roam . they be indoor cat . I would be grateful if my hon . friend could reassure I that the indoor nature of some cat , which be very similar to that of a dog , have be adequately take into account by her Bill . it be absolutely be take into account ; I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . there be no discrimination between cat and dog when it come to the penalty — they be be treat equally . it be only the way in which the offence be frame that be different . I absolutely take the point , and hope to illustrate it in more detail later . let I complete the story . two cat reappear , although one , sadly , reappear dead on the road , and the other two be still unaccounted for . these tale abound wherever we go . Debbie Matthews , the daughter of the late , great Sir Bruce Forsyth — the only host , in my opinion , of " the Generation Game " — Didn ' t he do well ? Didn ' t he do well . keep dance ! we digress . Debbie Matthews found SAMPA — the Stolen and Missing Pets Alliance — after have a very similar experience , when her two dog be steal from a supermarket , as do Toni Clarke , who found Pet Theft Awareness after her beautiful siamese cat , Clooney , be steal . the common thread that run through all these story be that the police response be practically non - existent . in Debbie ' s case , the police tell she that there be no point in they come because nothing of value have be steal from her car . Helen , who report the incident of the cat I mention previously , be tell by the police that they do not even consider a cat a possession . of course , the approach vary across police force — that be one problem that my Bill seek to address — but that be simply not right and it have to change ; and with this Bill , it will . one reason that this legislation be so important be the sheer scale of these offence now . accord to direct Line , between 2018 and 2022 there be more than 12 , 000 dog theft — an average of 2 , 400 a year , and the equivalent of seven dog steal every single day . those figure be not complete , because not all force even register such offence . cat theft , which have be mention , be now catch up . accord to Pet Theft Awareness , the police record that the number of steal cat have jump by 40 % in 2021 to an all - time high of 560 . cat theft have quadruple since 2015 , and datum from the Metropolitan police show that cat theft as a proportion of total pet theft crime rise from 6 % in 2012 to 31 % last year . cat theft be very much on the rise , and I be sure it be much connect with the beautiful breed that some people have . one can only imagine the distress and anguish face by owner of siamese or ragdoll cat — these beautiful breed that be keep inside — whose pet be snatch away from they . in say that , I be not in any way diminish the impact on I if Merlin and Marmalade , who be just normal old moggie , be take ; they be immeasurably valuable in my eye . I do not want to go any far without say a huge thank you to some people who have do a lot of work on the Bill over many , many year . Dr Daniel Allen , an animal geographer from Keele University , and Debbie Matthews both campaign for 10 year to get this far . the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation have also do tremendous work , and be so ably lead by Lorraine and Chris Platt , who I be glad be here with we today . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Members for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) and for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Stroud ( Siobhan Baillie ) , for Dartford ( Gareth Johnson ) and for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) for all their work in this area over many year . in particular , the former Lord Chancellor and Secretary of State , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , be so instrumental in form and lead the pet theft taskforce . it be his ingenious idea to move away from the more difficult - to - prove offence of pet theft to the more appropriate offence of pet abduction . public interest intensify during the pandemic , when breeder could not breed dog but the demand for puppy and companionship soar , and we have a paradise for callous criminal who want to steal other people ' s pet . that perfect storm of callous criminality cause a spike in pet theft , particularly of dog , which lead to the launch of the cross - Government pet theft taskforce in May 2021 . it be important to stress that although this be a political issue , it be not , I hope , a party political one . the Bill have huge support from right across the House , for which I be very grateful . that taskforce gather evidence to understand the factor that contribute to both the perceived and real rise in pet theft . it hear concern about the significant price rise for the UK ' s most seek - after dog breed during lockdown . accord to the Dogs Trust , the price of some breed rise by almost 90 % . the number of " buy a puppy " Google search increase by more than 160 % in the month between March and August , as everyone scramble to buy their pandemic puppy . that lead a number of source , include animal welfare charity and expert , to suggest that those price increase almost certainly trigger the rise in pet theft . the finding of the pet theft taskforce show that the emotional impact of have a pet steal be high . not know what have happen to a pet or where they be be an agonising situation to be in — one that all pet owner in the Chamber surely sympathise with . that emotional impact do not stop with the owner . the pet , too , can suffer from be take away from their owner and thrust into an unfamiliar environment . there be also a high level of fear surround the victim of pet abduction . in fact , that be demonstrate to I last night when I take part in an hour - long phone - in on Iain Dale ' s lbc show to talk about the Bill . anyone who know anything about Iain Dale know what a massive dog lover he be . he have a walled courtyard at his house in which his two dog , Woody and Dude , be allow to go out , and it have a gate so that they be safe , but he be still worried and fearful that somebody else might get in . that be reflect in many of the call , so this be still a real issue . this be a good Bill and I support it , but my concern be that an offence already cover this type of criminal behaviour . I do not believe that it be the difficulty in prove that offence that be cause the problem here ; it be the police not take allegation and investigation seriously . I hope that the new offence will impact on the police response so that they take the matter seriously . do my hon . friend think that it will achieve that ? I share my hon . friend ' s interest in that area . of course , those be question that I have ask myself , and I think the answer be twofold . first , the police will have to assign a unique identifier to this separate offence , so we will finally be able to see the scale of the offence and which police force be take it seriously and enforce the law on it . of course , it would not be logical to suddenly find that pet theft be happen in only one or two county but not in other — the degree might vary , but the offence be happen all over the country . make it compulsory for the police to assign a unique identifier will , in itself , lead to great enforcement . the other point , which my hon . friend do not directly touch on , be the sentencing for this offence . he will know that there have be many attempt to strengthen the sentencing guideline , but he will also know , as a lawyer himself , about the separation of power and that that be not a role for this place . however , by have a separate offence , there will be separate sentencing guideline . I hope he be assure by that . I strongly support the Bill and hope to catch Madam Deputy Speaker ' s eye a little later . on the point about the obligation and the legality , I be remind of a good friend of mine whose dog stray on Hampstead Heath , be pick up by somebody , tie on a railing with a piece of string , and then steal . will my hon . friend , and / or the Minister remind the House about the current differential obligation for dog and cat , and what one be bind in law to do if one find a dog or a cat at the moment , and under this Bill ? what be everyone ' s responsibility ? my hon . friend raise a very important and interesting point , which we could discuss because there be already obligation on the statute book , as he know . I will come on to deal with some of the point he have raise . I want to turn next to the purpose of the Bill . the golden thread run through this Bill be that dog and cat be sentient being . they be not mere property ; animal and human can and do form emotional bond and there be a devastating impact when animal abduction take place , both on people and on pet . that need to be properly reflect in our criminal law . hon . member will know that the theft of a cat or dog be already a crime under the Theft Act 1968 and the Theft Act ( Northern Ireland ) 1969 , but under those act the sentience and intrinsic value of animal be not recognise . so currently , in sentencing , a steal rescue labrador be treat as no different from a steal power tool , mobile phone , or computer — indeed , the theft of a labrador be probably treat as less since computer and smartphone be often of high value and consideration of financial value run through the Theft Act . pet be of course not mere property ; we have hear many example of that already in this debate . this Bill will create two specific offence of cat abduction and dog abduction in England and Northern Ireland . so if a pet be abduct , that will not be treat in the same way as the theft of a watch or a mobile phone or a power tool , all of which can easily be replace . they might be worth a lot of money and replace they might be inconvenient , but the item itself be not affect by the crime , whereas a pet be . the Bill recognise that pet be family , not property , and the trauma suffer by both the owner and the pet when the pet be abduct be very significant , and it be the intention of the Bill to allow the court to consider this impact on both the owner and the welfare of the animal when decide on the penalty . the second issue the Bill address be that pet theft and abduction do not currently have a unique identifier in crime dataset . that be why it be so difficult to identify the number of pet steal every year : it be impossible to distinguish in many police record between the theft of an inanimate object and the theft of an animal . of course , some dog and cat will be take as part of a burglary or a robbery , so the fact that an animal have be involve will not be mention at all in police record . in prepare for this second Reading debate I issue freedom of information request to all 45 territorial police force in the UK ask for the number of pet steal each year since 2019 . the response I receive perfectly articulate the problem we face . as of this morning I have receive response from 30 of the police force , but 12 of those 30 tell I that they be unable to provide the information request as their record do not distinguish theft of pet from general theft of object . that mean that I have only be able to compile for myself information on the cover area , make up around 29 % of the population of the UK . by introduce this unique identifier , we will help the recording of the crime and see the true extent of it . the offence themselves will cover the taking of a cat or a dog , but also the detaining of a dog . cat and dog be the most commonly keep pet in our country . it be now estimate that over a quarter of all adult own one or both of those pet , so dog and cat seem the appropriate place to start , but the specie be different , and be treat differently in the Bill . the detaining offence , which we have already talk about , do not apply to cat , as they generally have more freedom to roam without their owner . the Bill be not intend to punish incident where there have be no malice or ill intent in look after a cat that have voluntarily come to another person ' s home . many of we will have read the child ' s book " six Dinner Sid " , in which sid the cat have his dinner at six different house on the same street . this be a really important point . I be think of my wife ' s grandmother , who in our family be know as Granny Meow , because she have 14 cat . none of those cat have arrive in her home — she have go out and pick they up , because she think they be strays . she be a completely innocent old lady ; there be no question of she steal anything . I just want to be absolutely sure that Policeman Plod can not knock on her door and take she to court , or could not have knock on her door — she be long since dead , of course . I want to be absolutely assure of that , because it be important that people have that reassurance . I can absolutely assure my right hon . friend that it be specifically state in the Bill that it be a defence that a person be pick up stray animal , or be involve themselves with someone else ' s animal for good , honourable and noble reason . this Bill be really important for a lot of people . be it not the lesson of both " six Dinner Sid " and Granny Meow — of course , at the end of " six Dinner Sid " , Sid also go to the vet six time , which be not what he be look to do — that we really want to encourage people to get their pet chip , so that any confusion about ownership can be resolve ? that be the same for cat as for dog . I thank the hon . member for her excellent point — in fact , there be another excellent private Member ' s Bill on that topic far down the list today . she be absolutely right : we do not seek to criminalise anyone who look after Sid , George , or any other stray cat . the Bill include an enable power to extend the offence to other specie of animal commonly keep as pet . if there be evidence of a significant number or a rise in case of unlawful taking , the Government will be able to react in a dynamic way . when listen to the radio last night , I be very strike by the number of people who phone in to talk about bird — in particular , bird of prey — be steal , so that may well be an area that we look at in the future . we have hear concern about the fact that good behaviour should not be criminalise . I want to assure member that while the Bill propose offence mean to punish those who purposefully abduct a pet , it also create exemption for certain connected person and subject to certain defence , such as a reasonable excuse for take or detain an animal . for example — we have already hear some example — the offence will not apply in situation where a couple have get a cat or a dog while live together , then have a disagreement about the ownership of that pet and go their separate way . that could include someone who be flee an abusive relationship take their value pet with they . Refuge have raise that specific point and be very happy to see that situation exempt in the Bill . I will congratulate my hon . friend again when I make my speech . she be raise such valuable point about the different circumstance that we will see a result of the Bill . potentially in the future it will encompass a wide range of specie than dog and cat , so do she feel that we may need a widening of microchipping to encompass those pet ? it will be difficult to prove ownership of animal that be not microchippe if they do not have distinguish feature . I thank my hon . friend for an excellent point . the logic of that be irrefutable , and I agree with it wholeheartedly . the lawyer in I be come out here . do " lawful control " mean ownership ? I be almost certain that it do , but I will have to refer to my note to be precise . perhaps I could come back to my hon . friend on that , but it extend wide than ownership . it be design to encompass a vet , a dog sitter or somebody else with a role in relation to the animal in question . I hope that help my hon . friend . I hope that many hon . member in the Chamber will volunteer to be on the Bill Committee — indeed , I consider that they almost have volunteer . it be so important that we do not over - criminalise well - mean behaviour . the situation in relation to stray dog , where people have simply mean to provide shelter to an animal for a reasonable period of time if they believe it to be without a home , will not be catch by the Bill . in Northern Ireland , a defence will apply to a person find an unaccompanied dog . most importantly , the Bill will introduce a new offence whereby if someone be find guilty of dog or cat abduction , the offender will be liable to a fine and up to five year in prison . the maximum term of imprisonment be comparable with provision for animal welfare offence under the Animal Welfare Act 2006 and the Welfare of Animals Act ( Northern Ireland ) 2011 . the Bill lay a marker that the abduction of our beloved pet will not be tolerate . any distress cause should be take into account , and the Bill will also give the opportunity for monitoring . I would like to reflect on cat , particularly the enormously precious indoor cat breed . in relation to the sentencing provision , how will the distress to the animal be demonstrate to the court ? do my hon . friend consider that there might be a victim witness statement from the owner or usual keeper , or a statement from a vet ? in what way do she consider that the distress may be evidence adequately to the court ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . I can not be prescriptive today about how that will be demonstrate , but I can assure she that there would have to be evidence . the court could not take distress into account without some reasonable evidence . sometimes , that evidence will be self - evident . sometimes , it will be provide by owner or passer - by . I be not suggest that it would have to be expert evidence , but there should be some evidence for the court to look at . finally , I pay tribute to all the organisation that have be involve in get we to this stage . I have mention the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation ; I should also like to mention Cats Protection , the Dogs Trust , Battersea Dogs & Cats Home , Refuge , Iain Dale and LBC , and of course Southend ' s own Tilly ' s Angels , and thank they for all their invaluable support and engagement with the Bill . if the Bill be enact , we will have well protection for our pet , we will have offence that duly recognise that our pet be sentient being , we will be well able to record and track pet abduction , we will have a well deterrent , and I hope we will see a prosecution rate great than 1 % , which be what it be now . pet be valuable and much - love member of our family . they ask little of we in return for their love and loyalty — not cat . except in the case of some cat , pet ask little other than that we keep they safe . they deserve our support and protection . I thank hon . member on both side of the House for their support . can I say first of all that my dog be truly the most amazing small love creature in the entire universe and that I will not be challenge on that in this Chamber ? can I also say that she be rob at the Westminster dog of the year show ? we have ensure that she would win the online poll by a zillion vote , but Mr Speaker manage to pick up the prize and Cara be completely and utterly ignore . I promise Cara that I would never , ever put she through such an outrageously unfair test of her beauty and her amazingness again . Cara be truly a member of our family . she be amazing with constituent . she come to my surgery . if a constituent be upset , she get off the chair , waddle over and sit there to be stroke . in fact , she have get I in trouble more than once by recognise a constituent in the street and go over to say hello . I have say , " I ' m so sorry — she ' s very friendly , " and be tell , " yes , we meet two week ago . she clearly remember I . " it be wonderful to hear about the hon . Lady ' s dog , who I enjoy meet at the Westminster dog of the year show . in the interest of today ' s debate and our cross - party unity on the issue , it be important to realise that when we be talk about the good dog or cat in the world , many thing can be the good together . each Member ' s pet could fulfil the role that the hon . Lady describe . I be not sure that Cara would agree with that , so I be hesitant to agree with the hon . Lady , but I take her point . Cara be truly a member of our family ; the entire family would be absolutely devastate if somebody be to take she from I . I would go to piece , to be honest . a number of my constituent , particularly through the lockdown period , contact I about dog theft — both the fear and the actuality of it . sadly , my constituent do not get their animal back at all . I know that there be a big market for they during lockdown , and because of the cost of live crisis — I make no political point about this — we be sadly see many more dog land at Dogs Trust and the Battersea Dogs & Cats Home because people can no long afford to feed they . I will not keep the House long in address the Bill , but I want to speak on behalf of Kim , who have a disability . she absolutely adore her dog , but she tell I she no long feel safe in take they out . she do not feel that she would be able to defend they if somebody should come and try to take they from she . she be particularly impact after a friend , who be 84 year of age , have her terri snatch from she while she be out on a walk . I know how terrifying and how emotionally devastating that must have be , because it would be like witness an assault or a kidnap of a member of her family — of such an emotional support for somebody of that age . it would have be just horrific . I know thing be no different for cat owner , and I be genuinely very pleased that this Bill recognise the need to protect cat in the same way . there be clearly very broad agreement that great legal clarity and strength be need in this area of law so that our close animal companion be not treat as property , but rather our relationship with they as a society be reflect in law . the Bill have be a long time come , and I be genuinely very grateful to the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) for bring it forward . I be not go to delay the passage of this long - await Bill , so will leave it there , but I want to say how delighted I be to see it and how pleased I be to have be able to speak in favour of it today . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) , who speak with passion about her devoted pet . her story will be repeat million of time across our country , bear in mind our reputation — I think , in the main , our justly hold reputation — as a nation of animal lover . I will come on to some of the exception that we all know about in a moment . if it be true that pet take on the characteristic of the people who look after they , then in the case of the cat who live in my house — I put it that way rather than say " my cat " — I would say that her propensity to be demand and voluble may well bear some similarity to I . I leave it for the House to draw its own conclusion . our cat be , of course , a Cats Protection cat . she be the second cat we have have in our family , both from Cats Protection , and I pay tribute to that wonderful organisation . we need never buy a cat in this country : there be ten of thousand of deserve cat who need a home , and charity such as Cats Protection provide a wonderful source of cat that need love and a home . our cat be name after Mrs Landingham — devotee of " the West Wing " will know that she be a great character , the President ' s secretary in the first two season of that wonderful drama — and she have be with we now for several year . as I say , the relationship between cat and their family can be a complex one , and our be no exception , but she be well love , particularly by my daughter , who really enjoy her company . that be another story to add to the million of other for whom the prospect of lose their pet would be one of real trauma — and we know the case of trauma that exist . back in 2021 , when I be in office as Justice Secretary , together with my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , who be then the Home Secretary , and my right hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , who be then the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , we set up the pet theft taskforce . the taskforce consist of not just official from our three respective Departments but two police and crime commissioner — Katy Bourne , the Sussex PCC , and Chris Nelson , the Gloucestershire pcc — along with police lead and representative of the Crown Prosecution Service and animal welfare group . we take evidence from a wealth of organisation such as the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals , Dogs Trust and the Kennel Club , and indeed the Sentencing Council , bear in mind the need to consider the interrelationship between any sentencing regime and sentencing for exist offence . it have be put very strongly at the time that we have the law of theft to cover the taking of animal and pet , and quite rightly , many lawyer say , " well , what on earth be we do ? we don ' t need another law and another layer of complexity for prosecutor and police to consider . " however , it become abundantly clear that the treatment of animal as chattel , good or property just do not meet the way in which society regard our pet . they be sentient being — sentient creature . they be much more than mere property , and therefore the definition in the Theft Act start to become strained to breaking point . More than that , the Theft Act require a test of dishonesty , define theft as the dishonest appropriation of property belong to another with the intention of permanently deprive that person of it . those element all have to be prove in order to prove theft . it be not just dishonesty , but an intention to permanently deprive . Herein come the obvious line that many perpetrator would deploy , which be , " I be not intend to take this animal . I be take it in for its welfare , and I be not go to permanently keep it . " you can already see , Mr Deputy Speaker , some of the evidential challenge that might present themselves in prove the offence of theft , which be why the analogy with abduction seem to I to be much more sensible . the law of child abduction have be part of our law for many decade and be last revise in the Child Abduction Act 1984 . those of we who be criminal practitioner — I see my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) in the Chamber — will be familiar with it . no doubt he have do case involve child abduction , and I certainly have . it be nothing to do with dishonesty , and nothing to do with the dishonest state of mind of a person . it be all about the taking of a child from a family situation , sometimes out of the country . the consent of the child , when the child be under a certain age , be immaterial . I be get a bit confused now . the whole point about the Theft Act be that intent have to be prove — men rea . what happen when somebody take a cat or a dog — this be precisely the point that my right hon . and learn Friend be make — and say , " I think he be a stray so I be do it for his welfare " ? we be not go to have a great court case about the state of mind of that person , be we ? no , we be not , because the provision of the Bill give the defence of reasonable excuse or lawful authority and , in any sensible analysis of a case , a police officer or a prosecutor will , of course , bear that very much in mind when weigh up the evidence . clearly , in the case that my right hon . friend envisage , cat lover and people who be clearly interested in the welfare of animal and pet will be cover by reasonable excuse or lawful authority . we have to acknowledge , sadly , that contrary to what happen with Granny Meow — I nearly call she Granny Pussy , but I be sure that Hansard will deal with that — there be group out there that be unscrupulous , particularly regard dog . they profit out of the illegal and underground breeding of animal and the passing off of dog , in particular , as pedigree breed when in fact they be nothing of the sort . when I be Solicitor General , I have to deal with an unduly lenient sentence reference case to the Court of Appeal relate to a conspiracy involve a veterinary surgeon and people who be in effect import greyhound , I think , from Ireland that be sadly not pedigree breed , and who be then profit from sell the dog on . that sort of trade be abusive . it involve poor welfare standard . frankly , it involve the abuse of animal and quite rightly horrify right - think people across our country . some might naively think that the theft of dog in particular be an ad hoc thing do on the spur of the moment , but I be afraid that be not the case . there be evidence of organise criminality and the taking of animal that be see to have a value . that be uncover during the work of the taskforce . policymaker , include I , contemplated introduce legislation to criminalise dog abduction with a power in the propose Bill to extend it to other type of animal . I be glad that we have go far today in have a specific offence of cat abduction . although such behaviour seem less prevalent , there be no doubt that it happen . there be cat of very high value and people see potential money to be make . there be example of that happen , sadly . rather than wait to do something , it be right that we take action to protect cat as well . the provision in the Bill to extend the type of offence to other animal be welcome . it give lawmaker the flexibility to do that through secondary legislation . keep it simple be the way forward . in previous iteration — we see element of this Bill in the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill that be withdraw — there be talk about bring in a test of dishonesty , which be a departure from the policy intent set out in the pet theft taskforce report and a complication of the situation . stick to dog and cat be good sense . there be a temptation to try to create a general offence about sentient mammal , but I think that be too clever by half . the Bill should commend itself to the House on the basis that it use familiar , well - know definition and keep thing as clear as possible . as my hon . friend the Minister will remember , the Animal Welfare ( Sentencing ) Act 2021 dramatically change the way we deal with welfare offence . it up the maximum sentence to five year , which be a big moment in animal welfare law reform , and it be right that the offence of abduction match that maximum . that be welcome by Blue Cross and by I , and it create consistency . some would say it be two year less than the maximum for theft , but we be look at a different regime . if and when offence be bring to court , and people either plead guilty or be convict , we want sentencer to look at that offence not only from the point of view of the keeper or the owner but with regard to the welfare effect on the animal and the condition of the dog or cat that have be abduct or take . therefore , we need to understand the offence from a welfare point of view . there have be some horrendous case in which dog that have be take have be treat very badly and have be return to their owner in a terrible state . we want that to be reflect in any sentence pass by a magistrate court or , indeed , a Crown court . the sentence be either - way offence and , bear in mind the maximum sentence of five year , they can go to the Crown court for trial or sentencing if the magistrate think their power of sentencing be inadequate . sadly , there will be case in which that will happen and where the welfare of the dog or cat in question have be abuse . in develop sentencing guideline , which the independent Sentencing Council will do as a result of the new offence , it be important that the welfare of the animal will be a consideration at the heart of the way in which court approach the sentencing exercise in these case . it be right that we be move away from a rather victorian view of animal as good and chattel . in use the term " abduction " we be strike the right balance between the need not to complicate the law but to reflect the reality of how we view our cat , dog and much - love pet and the effect on their welfare of their unlawful or criminal taking . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) for her work in this area . I should put on the record that she and I be at Bar school together some year ago — I will not say how many . she be a lawyer of some distinction and experience , and a former practitioner , so it be appropriate for she to bring forward this Bill . I be delighted to support it wholeheartedly — progress , at last . it be a genuine pleasure to contribute to the debate and to follow the comprehensive report by the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , the passion of my hon . friend the Member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) , the expertise of the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) and , of course , Granny Meow . should declare that I have often vote in the Westminster dog of the year competition — I have obviously vote for everybody ' s beautiful dog , if anybody ask — but I have never participate . I still own a rather elderly cat , who would probably not win any award , except from I . she be not of any particular breed , apart from loved . but we recognise that pet ownership be an intrinsic part of many people ' s life , and for good reason . there be a lot of evidence that own a pet can help with stress . perhaps that be why they should be mandatory in Parliament . I always think we should be able to have they in our office . maybe that would help some of our conversation . they lower blood pressure and they be good for loneliness . as a nation , half of we own a pet . in fact , the quarter of people who own a cat own more than one . we might have more people own dog , but we have more people be own by multiple cat — those six Dinner Sids . the message the Bill send be that this be not an insignificant matter . that answer the question from the hon . member for Bury North ( James Daly ) about the need for additional legislation . one reason to legislate in this place be when we see widespread pattern of harm . there be an explosion in the number of case of pet be steal during the pandemic , and the response people receive from the police tell we that there be something wrong with the way thing be be deal with . by legislate , we be send a very clear message that we want that to be different . this be a long - overdue change and I pay tribute to the pet theft taskforce — one can only imagine what its meeting be like and whether they take place in dog or cat caf é s around the country . the way in which thing have be slightly re - jig for cat and dog be also right . as Granny Meow , six Dinner Sid and most of we know , cat be different creature , whether they act like their owner or their owner become like they . more seriously , it be a worry to I that the experience of my constituent who have sadly experience this challenge — one reason why I want to speak and support the Bill — have be so difficult with the police . the emotional impact or , frankly , the financial consequence be not be take into account . in my short contribution , I want we to be clear that , yes absolutely , we recognise the emotional distress when somebody ' s cat or dog be take , but the trade behind that be also why legislate for this specific offence and address it be very worth do . I want to share some of the experience of my constituent . one constituent have a bengal cat steal . bengal cat can go for up to £ 5 , 000 if it be a particular type of breed . there be no other item under theft legislation of such value that we would then expect the police to say , " well , it ' s a civil matter . sorry about the loss of your cat , but we be not go to investigate . " it be actually a very valuable item , in addition to the emotional distress . another constituent ' s son ' s ex - girlfriend steal their dog . the dog be microchippe , so it be very clearly own by the family , but the police tell she that it be a civil matter and therefore they would not assist . again , I would just point out that there be other example of those kind of dispute where item have be take and the police have clearly recognise it as theft . after all , often break and enter be facilitate the seizure and abduction of a pet . that be partly because some of the breed we be talk about be incredibly valuable . a siamese cat can cost between £ 300 and £ 400 to buy . an english bulldog be £ 2 , 000 for a puppy . a dachshund be £ 1 , 500 , and even a cocker spaniel be £ 300 to £ 600 . it be not , therefore , a surprise that there be a trade in steal animal and pet to re - sell . when the police response be simply to dismiss that and not even investigate , we be give a green light for that to continue . I fully support the Bill and the message we be send by the clarity of have specific pet abduction legislation . it be important to have datum from police force about the scale of the crime . as we know with other crime , datum be the start of the investigation . if we do not know where these crime be take place , we can not then look for the pattern that help we identify the people behind they . I also recognise the distress that this crime cause . the constituent who come to I be devastate when their pet have be steal and they feel that nobody else care . the message we be send from Parliament today be that we do think somebody should care and we do think it be a serious matter . finally , I join other in congratulate all the brilliant voluntary organisation that help we as a nation of pet lover . the hon . member for Southend West talk about Tilly ' s Angels . we have Waltham Forest for Cats and Waltham Forest 4 Dogs . they be two separate group , obviously — like Sharks and Jets , never the twain shall meet . those organisation rightly reflect that love and affection . there be a lot go on in the world and , obviously , some very serious matter be face we , but there be such a level of agreement across the Chamber that it be right to clarify thing and have this legislation . we have have the frustration and disappointment of have do all the work , look at the law and find a way through the challenge that people have identify , only to see the legislation drop , I hope that Minister will recognise that there be full support in the House for the Bill . we just need to get this do , put the protection in place and help ensure that the 54 % of we who have one can take our pet out to the park — we will try to shut our door to prevent our cat from leave the house and become the six Dinner Sids . in that way , we will generally be confident that our pet welfare be one of the good thing that we can look forward to . I call Jane Stevenson . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be lovely to see an animal lover in the Chair for this important debate on pet abduction . first , I wish to commend my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) for introduce this Bill , which be one that she and I have campaign to see bring forward for some time . it be so important to so many of our constituent . everywhere in my constituency , I meet people who campaign on behalf of pet , proud pet lover and fantastic volunteer . a few week ago , I meet people from Ashmore Rescue for Cats , who do such amazing work . its volunteer give up so much time to protect and rescue local cat . I have also meet local Cats Protection officer and volunteer in Wolverhampton , all of whom have push for this Bill , and I be proud to mention they in the Chamber today . it would be remiss of I not also to mention my hon . friend ' s predecessor , Sir David Amess , who be much miss today . I share with she that pride of be a new patron of the Conservative Animal Welfare Foundation , so I look forward to push for other animal cause with she in the future . the value of our pet to we be why this Bill be so important . the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) mention her age cat , who may no long be in the prime of her year . my two cavalier spaniel , Cromwell and Bertie , be about to be 12 . they have very few tooth leave and look a bit ragged around the edge , but to I they be the most valuable thing in my household , in my possession . if someone steal my dog , they would face little or no punishment , because the financial value of my dog be nothing — if anything , they be a liability , because of ever - grow vet ' bill and the endless treatment that they need . they have no financial value , but this Bill will reflect the distress that my family and I would feel , and certainly my two dog would feel , if they be to be abduct . our fantastic whip be not able to speak , but I do mention to my hon . friend the Member for Stourbridge ( Suzanne Webb ) that her dog , Sidney Pickles , be also in strong support of this Bill , so it be good to put Sidney ' s support on the record , even though my hon . friend be not currently in her place . the whole House can unite around this important piece of new legislation . in my intervention , I make point about ownership and proof . I be pleased that the Bill be future - proof and it be applicable to a variety of pet , because it be difficult to set a dividing line of what pet have a value and what pet be just a standard extra piece of fur that someone buy at the pet shop . for all of we , our pet , whatever its type , be important and have that emotional value . to child in family , learn how to care for pet be an important part of grow up , and learn responsibility and compassion for other people , as well as for animal . I hope my hon . friend the Member for Southend West will forgive I for not talk at length , because I be be sponsor by tissue and Lemsip today , but I do not want to return to my constituency without she show my full support . it be unusual to get volunteer to serve on Bill Committees , but she know that I be very happy to support she in this Bill in any way I can . I can see my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) be also indicate that it will not be difficult to put together a Bill Committee . I know that member on both side of the Chamber care passionately about animal . I briefly say to the Minister that it would be good to hear where the Government stand on the issue of ownership if the Bill be widen to include other breed of animal . if there be not enough distinguish feature of guinea pig , hamster or whatever — ferret have be mention a fair few time — that proof of ownership point be important if we want the Bill to do what it say on the tin . on behalf of all animal , I want to lay my sincere thank to the Government on the record . we have have meeting about this matter over many month and year , and it be fantastic to see the Government support the Bill . I wish my hon . friend the Member for Southend West every success . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) on secure the second reading of her Bill — an important moment . I be also somebody who come second in dog of the year — not this year , but I be the good in the east with my dog Soda , a lovely mini Schnauzer cross — but anyway , enough of that . I remember friend have the dreadful experience of have their dog snatch — a lovely Norfolk terrier , and a bit of a character . it be a peculiar incident in a way , because the dog just suddenly yelp and disappear . the friend put up an advertisement offer a reward , and some rather dodgy individual ring up and say , " well , if the reward be a bit big … " eventually , the dog be return , but that give we an example of some of the terrible behaviour . of course , what a dreadful experience for the family , in which this dog be much love . eventually , the dog be return , although it be a sad experience for the family . there have be , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) allude to , a gap between how the law view and value animal and how the public do . a series of private member ' bill have start to change that and build on the work of the landmark Animal Welfare Act 2006 . when I be take through the Animal Welfare ( Service Animals ) Act 2019 , know at the time as Finn ' s law , hon . member in all part of the House , as well as the public , be shock when I explain that the only effective charge when a police dog be stab to within an inch of his life by an escaping criminal be criminal damage . no penalty be actually impose in that case because the police dog be near the end of his work life and be not worth much money , so the sentencing be base entirely on the monetary value of the damage . I be glad to gain strong support from all party through various hon . member , but also from the right hon . member for Exeter ( Mr Bradshaw ) , who have originally take through the 2006 Act . through that private Member ' s Bill , we manage to provide an alternative approach , enable an Animal Welfare Act offence to be use in those sort of case . my hon . friend the Member for West Dorset ( Chris Loder ) follow that up the next year with the Animal Welfare ( Sentencing ) Act 2021 , which raise the maximum sentence for animal welfare offence to five year ' imprisonment . this Bill be in the same tradition , because pet theft be just theft — a criminal offence under the Theft Act . conviction can result in a fine or a maximum sentence of seven year , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon say . the guideline do not reflect that , because harm be assess by reference to the financial loss that result from the theft , so pet theft be see as a minor crime with low prosecution rate and relatively lenient sentence , but that ignore the true nature of the crime : pet be love member of their family — it be often say that they complete their family — so when they be take , it cause huge suffering to the family and , of course , to the animal companion who love his or her family . this be a much more substantial crime than the current law allow . there be a body call the Stolen and Missing Pets Alliance . it campaign for strong penalty and say that " pet be classify as property , second hand good , value under £ 500 , the punishment be usually a measly £ 250 fine , if the thief be catch ! " pet theft have be a low - risk , high - reward crime — a gift for dog thief — so I welcome the specific crime of pet abduction in the Bill with a proper sentence attach . a new specific offence will also give court access to appropriate custodial sentence because the sentencing guidance will have to reflect the new offence and its wide ambit in term of consider sentience . the new offence be right and show that pet be more than just mere replaceable property ; they be sentient being . it also reflect the worry cause by the uncertainty to the family about the animal ' s well - being . so this would be another animal welfare measure recognise animal as more than mere property , and another successful private Member ' s Bill change law in this area . I would add that I have certainly have a lot of help from the Clerks and the Whips and I hope the same will be true for my hon . friend the Member for Southend West — I be sure it will be . we should also recognise that organise crime gang have be steal dog to breed from , so there be a need to ensure that we be not allow organised crime to fund its activity in this way . the difficulty in monitoring and track the criminal have partly be to do with police record , and have a specific offence will mean that we will know where these offence occur and be able to track pattern , which be so important in try to really stop a crime . the pet theft taskforce be a very good idea and I think we would all support its recommendation of find well recording option . the only evidence on this I have see , apart from the evidence from my hon . friend , be from the taskforce , which try to get a handle on whether the number of offence be increase or not . it find that there have be a 3 . 5 % increase in record case at a time when theft case generally have go down by a quarter . so we have a period of decline theft but not in this area , where it be go up . as have be say , these figure be base on an incomplete set of record so they be not conclusive , but I think they would fit in with the impression that most of we have that this be a crime that be on the up , rather than the down , therefore , this Bill be particularly welcome . I be not go to detain the House for too long because I have a Bill come up later , but I welcome this Bill as an opportunity to improve the welfare of animal , show public abhorrence of the crime of abduct a much - love pet and family member and also bear down on organised crime . therefore , I be happy to support the Bill . I have to say this now , have listen to the other contribution : as I walk into my front room there be a picture of I sit with my dog Bertie with his rosette . Bertie come third in the dog of the year competition this year , but I have to add that , although my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) be not her place , even I have to accept that her dog be rob , because that dog be one of the most talented animal I have ever see in my life and how it do not get in the top three I do not know . but that be a completely different story . I rise to support this Bill for all the reason that have be give . I be a member of the Home Affairs Committee and the Justice Committee and have be a criminal lawyer for the good part of two decade and I be always interested in how we can encourage the police to take seriously all type of offend , and certainly offend in this area . I agree with the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) that pass this Bill would be a strong statement from Parliament and I genuinely hope the police will take up the challenge of investigate these offence properly and give they the degree of time and seriousness they deserve . I hope my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) will forgive I for talk now about my private Member ' s Bill , which be no . 7 in today ' s list . I hope it be appropriate to raise it and I only do so in the context of general animal welfare legislation and because it be relevant to our discussion of her Bill . what this Bill be address — and what we have very articulately and movingly be talk about — be the impact of the loss of a cat or dog on the owner . sadly , sometimes when someone lose a cat in particular it be not always when it be alive ; sometimes it be when it have pass . there be many instance of this . the campaign for Gizmo ' s law , which originate in my constituency , be a nationwide campaign that provide a basis for my private Member ' s Bill . it have highlight that if a cat be find deceased on the public highway and be pick up by a local authority , it be almost certainly dispose of in landfill ; no care or thought be give to the owner of the cat , who do not know where it be . gizmo ' s law be propose through my Pets ( Microchips ) Bill , which I bring to the Minister ' s attention as it be a complementary piece of legislation . if a cat be find in such circumstance , that law would require the local authority , without cost apart from time , to make arrangement for the cat ' s microchip to be scan and to make effort — through various website or the detail that will hopefully come from the microchip ; legislation on the mandatory microchipping of cat be now come into force — to tell the owner of the cat what have happen . the loss of a cat , not only through theft but through such tragic circumstance , be an important matter that be complementary to this debate and part of the discussion about how we treat our pet . the other part of my Bill also address the nuanced circumstance of how we treat our animal — in this case , dog . I simply could not believe it when I be tell about this case . tuk ' s law be a campaign run from the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) , on which Sue and Dawn have work over many year . although the number of case be reduce , there be sadly circumstance where individual take healthy dog to the vet , and veterinary surgeon will euthanise the dog . no explanation need to be give ; in those circumstance , there be no requirement on the veterinary profession to scan the microchip or to make any inquiry to identify the rescue back - up — the rescue back - up be the original breeder or someone other than the owner . that mean that there be an extraordinary situation whereby , for perhaps a whole variety of reason — perhaps a dog be bark — a neighbour , say , could decide , " I ' m go to take that dog to the vet and ask for it to be put down . " that genuinely happen . there have be ongoing discussion on the issue ; I have be talk about it for three or four year , since I have be in the House . the veterinary profession have put a voluntary code of conduct in place , but it be not stop these case from happen . that example could fall within the legislation that we be talk about today . I ask that the Minister give consideration to the wide possible scope . if we be to introduce good legislation like this , it should cover all circumstance , so that member of the public can know what have happen to their pet , and so that healthy dog be protect . if I be to lose Bertie in any circumstance , it would be the end of the world . if he be in an accident , the impact on I and my family would be just as great as if he be steal . I hope the Minister will give some consideration to the Pets ( Microchips ) Bill — no . 7 on the Order Paper — which we will not reach today , as a complementary piece of legislation to address many of the issue we have be talk about today . I support this incredibly important Bill , bring forward by my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) . by pass this legislation , we will take action to address the grow problem of pet theft and recognise it as a specific offence . in do so , we be honour an important part of defra ' s action plan for animal welfare and deliver a measure that will have a huge impact on our constituent . for my family , as for many , pet be family member and the thought of have they steal be incredibly distressing . Liesl von Cat and Cavalier spaniel Horatio and Arthur be truly family member , although Horatio and Arthur live in Spain , so I be not sure that they will be afford the same protection as those we hope to deliver through the Bill . pet provide a lifeline , a source of companionship and a comfort in good time and bad . I know that many of my right hon . and hon . friend feel exactly the same way about their own cat and dog , and we have already hear many story about they today . unfortunately I do not have a dog , so I do not enter the Westminster dog of the year competition . I be sure that I would otherwise have win . I have receive report of dog be steal from garden in my constituency , vanish after be let out in the evening . thank to the support of amazing charity such as Beauty ' s Legacy which work to reunite lose and steal pet with their owner , and the Staffordshire police service that track down dog , there have be local success story with perpetrator be arrest , yet at present the theft of a treasured family pet be no more serious under the law than the theft of a phone or wallet . pet be currently treat as mere replaceable property , akin to an inanimate object . that be not just an oversight but an insult , fail to acknowledge the emotional trauma experience by the victim of pet abduction . currently , there be little under the law to deter criminal who seek to profit from the sale of steal pet or use they as leverage in personal dispute . the penalty for pet theft be often minimal , and do not reflect the severity of the emotional turmoil inflict on the pet and its family . this really do need to change , and the Bill seek to address precisely that need . by make pet abduction a specific offence , we be send the clear message that our society value the unique role that pet play in our life , and provide a deterrent to those who might consider pet abduction a low - risk , high - reward crime . indeed , by impose stiff penalty , we can dissuade potential offender and protect our beloved animal . this be not just about punishment ; it be also about prevention and protection . we must also address the important role that the Bill will play in the improvement of tracking and data collection on pet abduction case . that will give we insight into the scale of the problem , and help to tailor future preventive measure . Data be power , and in this case it be the power to protect our furry friend . we be indeed a nation of animal lover , and by pass this important Bill we can continue that proud tradition . we will honour our Government ' s commitment , and set an example in the way we treat our animal . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Southend West for introduce the Bill . as the successor to Sir David Amess , she constantly strive to continue his legacy as a champion for animal welfare , and to propose important measure to improve the life of our animal . I know that member on both side of the political divide will support this legislation . animal welfare unite our party , and together we can send that clear message that pet abduction will not be tolerate , and that pet be worth far more than mere personal property . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . People who steal , or abduct , pet be despicable , and I be delighted that the legislation that my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) have take up , with the support of the Government , will make it far more straightforward to put the people who do this in jail , because that be what they deserve . I congratulate my hon . friend on her good fortune in gain her place in the ballot , and commend she for her wisdom in choose this particular Bill . as she will know , the legislation be originally in the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , and I be also delighted that she and the Government be honour the commitment to legislate for these element . I be confident that the Bill will fly through the House , although I be sure that both the Government and my hon . friend will be listen to what be say about some of the fine point . during the time when the keep animal Bill be pause , there be a significant public outcry about what should be do in respect of cat . as my hon . friend put it so articulately in her speech , there be a slight difference between the natural instinctive attribute of different pet , but I be pleased that government lawyer and DEFRA official have work hard to establish how cat can be include in the Bill . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) mention the taskforce . People may not realise this , but for a conviction for theft there be quite a high bar to prove that someone have be permanently deprive of a particular item . that be especially true of a live item . I be pleased that we be take this forward . the offence of pet abduction , and the potential criminal sentence of up to five year ' imprisonment , will provide an effective deterrent . there have be discussion about a number of different police force . I commend Suffolk police . there have be a significant increase in pet theft in the last few year , as people seek to steal much - value pet that can be sell . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Sir Oliver Heald ) — he be not in his place , but I be sure he will be back — be right to mention the impact of organise crime . it be perhaps not on the scale of national organise crime , but certainly local crime gang be take pet and then transport they right around the country . I pay tribute to Sussex police , who find Willow , a dog that have be steal in Suffolk , eight month later in Surrey — thank to their activity , she be reunite with her owner . People have talk about the Westminster dog show and other . my beloved Rizzo finally get a " highly commend " award in the Westminster dog of the year show a few year ago — just for perseverance , I think ; she be old and blind . sadly , she pass away not long after . we know — that be why we be here — that the british people care extensively about the value of their pet . that be why I think it wise to add to the legislation a power to react , through regulation , to what be happen with criminal gang , give we the opportunity to have more pet later . the precise detail of the issue that hon . member have raise may need further consideration . I be glad that this consideration have be give to the issue . I recall a stray dog in the village where I use to live in Hampshire . it be just wander around , and we take it in . like a responsible person , I want to find out where the dog have come from . I make an initial inquiry at the village shop , but they do not know , and I then go to the vet . I be a bit surprised when the vet say that they be not allow to tell I who the owner be . I understand in a wide sense , but I find it rather frustrating that I be limited in how I could connect with the owner to reunite they with their pet — I be not even allow to know whether the dog be register to somebody in my village . an officer from the council come and take the dog . I wish that I have know the full detail of section 150 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 , under which I could have keep the dog — at the time , I be tell , " absolutely not . " I be concern , of course , that if the owner be not find after seven day , the dog could be euthanise . I feel that I could probably have have more effect . in that regard — have now read the legislation in detail as a Member of Parliament — I would probably have want to hold on to the dog , perhaps for 24 hour , just to take it to the pub or whatever . it turn out that somebody at the pub that night have lose their dog , and I be able to refer they and they be reunite the follow morning . I be grateful that the Bill consider the genuine kindness of people who want to try to reunite dog with their owner . I have give notice to my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and the government that I will table one amendment . I want to change the commencement date in clause 6 ( 1 ) . at the moment , the Bill rely on more regulation come through to bring it into effect . I understand that official might want time to get guidance and so on , but I do not think that necessary . I strongly recommend that my hon . friend change that in Committee — I do not want to wait until Report to change it — and that some deal be do , whether for two or three month . that would be perfectly reasonable in order to ensure that once we have pass the Bill , it be pass in the Lords without many amendment . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for raise that issue . of course , the normal convention be that the Bill would come into force two month after Royal Assent , which be a reasonable period of time . we could delete that clause or add something to allow a slightly long period , but she make a powerful point . my right hon . and learn Friend , have be a recorder and Solicitor General , be well establish in the operation of the law , and I agree . why not make it two month after Royal Assent ? I strongly support the Bill . I appreciate that there have be many private member ' Bills that latch on to an issue without really change the law , on which there might have be question today . there be no doubt that the change from " permanent deprivation " to " abduction " make this a powerful Bill , and I look forward to it become law before the summer . I call George Freeman . it be a great pleasure to speak in this debate , Mr Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to you for your long - stand work on animal welfare issue in this House over the year . I will be brief , as I know there be a number of very good private member ' Bills wait to be hear today . I want to speak on behalf of the people of Mid Norfolk , and on behalf of Tosca , our 14 - year - old cat , and Jassy , our two - year - old fox red Labrador . it be a joy to have their name in the Official Report . the pet of this country need we to act on their behalf , just like the many people who , in a civilised society , need parliamentarian to speak for they , include the child who can not vote and all those who need we to take their interest seriously . more importantly , for all those who have suffer the appalling trauma of pet abduction , it be not a victimless crime . for many people in this country , the abduction or theft of their pet be every bit as serious , if not more serious and traumatic , than the loss of a wallet or the other thing that the police generally think of as more serious crime . I pay tribute to my great friend , the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , for introduce this Bill and secure Government support . I also thank the Minister for her support . this enlighten Government be work with Back Benchers on both side of the House to put in place good legislation that the people of this country want . our late , great friend , the former hon . member for Southend West , David Amess — whose shield stand proudly behind his successor — would have be to the fore on this Bill . he be a great champion , as the current hon . member for Southend West be , of pet and animal welfare . my dear friend Marika have a beautiful miniature pinscher , which be just about the small dog possible . the dog become lose in the undergrowth on Hampstead Heath and somebody find he . strangely , rather than take this tiny dog — a puppy — to someone or look for the person who have obviously lose he , this person decide , in their haste , to tie the puppy to a railing with a piece of string and abandon he . after an hour of search , when Marika be tell that the dog have be see , she rush to the railing to find he steal , and the puppy ' s body be find just off the North Circular 24 hour later . five year later , the trauma be ongoing . Marika will be distressed to be remind of it , but I know she want I to raise the case , which she have also raise with her local MP . she be delighted that the Bill be be debate on the Floor of the House and that the Government be support it . I be conscious of time , so I will not rehearse the excellent argument about the legality . I simply want to take this opportunity to invite the Minister to remind those listen that the Environmental Protection Act 1990 — I defer to my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , the former Lord Chancellor and Solicitor General — make it clear that anyone who find a stray dog have a duty in law to make sure it be return to a person in office or to the police . the person who decide they be too busy to take Marika ' s dog to the park warden at Hampstead Heath , or to anybody , and tie it up and abandon it actually commit an offence . it be really important that people understand that as citizen , we all have a duty to dog . today ' s Bill strengthen that obligation , as well as the criminal sanction against those who do not exercise their responsibility and who commit this appalling crime — against pet , but every bit as appallingly , against the people who love their pet and suffer the trauma . I want to briefly highlight some excellent work go on in Mid Norfolk , and some of the terrible story that I have see in my work . cat Protection in Longham — the Opposition Front Bencher , the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , will know it well as a former candidate in Mid Norfolk — do brilliant work on rehome and microchipping . I be really delighted to see the microchippe framework extend in this Bill . I also want to highlight DogLost in Norfolk and Suffolk , which do great work . my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) support that organisation ; it have 25 , 000 member , which speak to the importance of this issue across our part of the world and across the country . personally , I want to highlight Alex Dann of Dann ' s Ice Cream in North Tuddenham , who have his dog Patch steal from beside his ice cream van . he have not lose he , neglect he or leave he : while he be serve customer ice cream , somebody steal his dog , and it be report in the excellent Eastern Daily Press . Rita and Philip Potter also have their Labrador Daisy steal — I could go on . this be not a victimless crime : it be a crime that cause huge trauma . pet be do a huge social service for we all ; many people rely on their pet , not just for the glory that they bring to daily life but to help they with mental health condition , loneliness and a whole raft of condition that cause huge pain . I be not suggest that pet should be bring under the provision of the Department of Health and Social Care , or fund for those purpose , but we should at least acknowledge that they be do hugely important and good work , which make the crime of pet theft all the more appalling . Mr Deputy Speaker , I will not test your or the House ' s patience any far . I just want to put on record my support for this Bill and for my hon . friend the Member for Southend West , and my joy at see all party in this House come together in support of something that the public will be delighted to see Parliament put in place . I call the Opposition Front Bencher . it be always a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) . I congratulate the hon . member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) on her success in the ballot , on introduce this Bill , and also on her very comprehensive introduction to the debate . we have hear excellent speech on both side of the House — I thoroughly enjoy the contribution from my hon . friend the Members for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) and for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) , and I listen closely to the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) and commend he for his expertise and good work on this issue . of course , I also listen closely to my near neighbour the right hon . and learn Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Sir Oliver Heald ) , who be not in his place at the moment . I would also like to associate myself with the hon . member for Southend West ' s warm word about her predecessor and our former colleague , the late Sir David Amess . Sir David ' s office be close to mine over in 1 Parliament Street , and we often chat in the lift , sometimes conspire together to try to expedite or improve legislation relate to animal welfare . he remain very much miss . indeed , I rather suspect Sir David would have approve even more if the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill have be proceed with . while it be once again a pleasure to be debate the Minister today , she will no doubt be expect I to berate she for the delay , and I hope I will not disappoint . it be actually the Minister ' s former colleague at DEFRA , the right hon . and learn Member for Banbury ( Victoria Prentis ) — now the Attorney General — who lead for the Government on that Bill . we spend many day in Committee . yes , there be amendment and suggestion , but there be also very strong support from the Opposition for what the Government be try to do , because we be address " the very real problem of the day : the suffering of cage primate ; the worry by dog of farm animal ; puppy smuggling ; cruel mutilation such as ear and tail cropping ; and the pain of pet theft . all that and more have be happen every day since . for almost 1 , 000 day , the Government have allow those abuse to continue . " — [ Official Report , 18 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 1201 . ] if that rant sound familiar , it be because I say the same when we debate the Animal Welfare ( Live Exports ) Bill . the same question arise , and I hope that one day a Minister will address it : why be the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill pull after all that work , when it have such strong cross - party support ? why do a change in the ministerial team mean that conservative manifesto promise be dump time and again ? yes , we understand that bit of the Bill be be bring forward in drib and drab , but that be subject to all the uncertainty and vagary of the private Member ' s Bill process , without the expert evidence session that helpfully inform our discussion . I do not expect to get an answer , but the question remain and we will keep put it — not least because of the strength of public feeling on these matter , as evidence by the range of petition link to the Bill . the opposition welcome the Pet Abduction Bill . we support it and will try to improve it , but we want it do swiftly . we all know that dog and cat abduction can happen for a range of reason , which sadly include resale , extortion , breeding and dog fighting . all those be devastating for owner and can involve distress and sometimes cruelty to the animal involve . I be grateful to Battersea Dogs & Cats Home for share its thought ahead of the debate . datum analysis from Scotland have find that in 32 % of instance of dog theft investigate in 2019 - 20 and 2020 - 21 , the offence be relate to domestic issue or ownership dispute regard the dog . that show how complex dog and cat abduction be , and how far the crime be tie to deliberately create distress for the human victim . dog and cat be now sentient being under the law , and owner view they as part of the family , yet if a pet be steal , the offence be treat as akin to steal an inanimate object . currently , although sentencing can take into account the emotional impact on the human victim , the dog or cat ' s financial worth be the big factor . that mean that the punishment do not come close to fit the crime or to act as a deterrent . the opposition have be seek action for year . some 32 month ago , on 22 June 2021 — this be before the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill — my Labour colleague table amendment to the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Bill to tackle pet theft . I urge interested member to look up the very good discussion that take place . the Government bat away our effort , and it take until the penultimate day of the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill for the Government to table what be , I have to say , a panicky and poorly draft amendment . that amendment be debate on 18 November 2021 ; again , I urge interested member to read the debate . interestingly , that be after the pet theft taskforce have report . at the time , I express some surprise that pet theft have be smuggle in " through the back door " , as I put it , but I and other agree that urgent action be need . indeed , the right hon . and learn Member for Banbury say : " this be be do quickly ; I be not apologise for that because I think the situation be one that we need to resolve quickly . " – – [ Official Report , Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Public Bill Committee , 18 November 2021 ; c . 172 . ] I agree , but that be over two year ago . actually , I find myself agree with the right hon . and learn Lady rather frequently these day . at the time , she be rather unkindly deride by Quentin Letts in a distinctly catty but quite funny column in the Times for be the Minister for cat . frankly , in her current role she must often feel like she be herd cat . however , she be right that it be urgent then . it remain urgent now . I argue at the time that the Government ' s formulation " connected person " and " animal capable of form bond " be problematic , and I suspect the Minister rather agree . I be pleased that the present Bill use a different form of word , as have be discuss , but I be not sure that the new formulation be without problem of its own . as have be explore today , the question of ownership within household be hard to define . I suspect we will wish to explore that far in Committee . for example , if Larry the Downing Street cat be to go awol — I be sure that that would not happen under the current occupant , but I be not sure about some of his predecessor — I wonder quite how the current wording would work . I also have to wonder quite how the legislation will work when a much - love cat be take by an out - of - control pack of foxhound , a situation that sadly still occur . again , that be something to be explore far . although I welcome the protection of cat in the Bill and the regulation allow the power to extend the regulation to protect other specie commonly keep as pet , there be an irony here , be there not , because the Government appear to be create a probably unintended route to protect those who keep primate as pet from the abduction of their animal , yet they be fail to ban the keeping of primate as pet , as promise in a conservative manifesto in 2019 — something that be at least attempt in the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill . I finish where I begin : Labour strongly support these measure to tackle pet theft and pet abduction . we will support the Bill , but we want it strengthen , and we want it do speedily . first I must congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Southend West ( Anna Firth ) , and thank she for bring forward this incredibly important Bill . it really show the good of we as parliamentarian when we can have a debate like this ; it bring we all together . it be something of a challenge on a Friday to see whether we can get in as many pet name as possible , and I think we have excel ourselves today with the naming of pet , include , of course , the 14 cat that Granny Meow look after . we have also have many mention of that wonderful event , Westminster dog of the year ; I have come second in that competition a number of time , and not even with my own dog . I be a bit of a fraud because I borrow one from one of the amazing charity , but it be to help to highlight that great and useful event . I also want to add my comment on the wonderful Sir David Amess , who do so much on animal welfare in this House . I be so pleased that my hon . friend be follow in his footstep . the Bill seek to recognise the inherent difference between pet as sentient being and pet as inanimate object , as they would be see under the criminal law on theft . I be really proud to say that it be this Government who introduce the Animal Welfare ( Sentience ) Act 2022 , which cement the legal recognition that vertebrate animal be sentient being . the critical thing about this Bill be , of course , that it recognise that the sort of steal pet we be talk about be basically family — that be how I think my hon . friend so ably put it — and all the emotion surround our pet . at the outset , I pay tribute to all colleague who take part in the debate , which have be tremendous , show so much knowledge , expertise and love of our pet . we have have cross - party support , with the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) and for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) join in . I thank they for their support . I also thank all our colleague for their support : my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , who do such a great job on the pet theft taskforce ; my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Jane Stevenson ) , who raise that issue of widen this legislation to other animal in the future — she know that be an option in the Bill ; my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Sir Oliver Heald ) , who have great knowledge and expertise , have take through Finn ' s Law , which we have hear about ; and my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( James Daly ) . I know his Pets ( Microchips ) Bill be come up , but I want to say that the microchippe reform we plan to take forward will contribute to address some of his Bill ' s aim , so I hope that give he some assurance . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) and , of course , my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) , who do so much on animal welfare when she be Secretary of State in the Department . since she raise the question of commence this legislation as soon as possible , I should put on the record that it will indeed be commence as soon as possible , within three month of the Bill ' s receive Royal Assent . I hope that give she some reassurance about our absolute intention to get speeding on with the Bill . I do not have much time , but I be not surprised that the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , raise the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill , and that give I the opportunity to talk about it . we be aware of how important animal welfare be to the people in this nation , which be why it be such a priority for the Government . that Bill be a huge priority in our manifesto 2019 , as he will know , and although the Animal Welfare ( Kept Animals ) Bill as such be not be take forward , it be far from the case that we be deal with item from that Bill in drip and drab . we have introduce a wave of legislation on animal welfare . to name just a few , we have increase the penalty for those convict of animal cruelty ; we have announce the extension to the Ivory Act 2018 , with more specie add ; we have pass the Animal Welfare ( Sentencing ) Act 2021 ; we bring in legislation on the microchipping of cat , which I be here for on a Friday ; we make our action plan for animal welfare in 2021 ; we ban glue trap and tackle hare coursing ; we ban the trade in shark fin ; we modernise licensing for dog breeding and pet ; we pass Finn ' s law , which I refer to ; and there be much more . I genuinely think we be the party for animal welfare . the unlawful taking of pet be a callous crime and it be right that perpetrator be bring to justice . the Bill focus on the impact on the welfare of steal cat and dog , not just their financial value . that be so important . I have to name my cat , because everyone else have name their pet . I have to put Raffa and Mr Tipps on the record . we have have so many reference to what pet mean to we , but since my husband die and my three child leave home , my cat have take on an even more important role in my life . they be there to welcome I when I get home . we all have story like that , as we have hear . those be the thing we can share . our pet be so important to we , and so be the Bill . I welcome the Bill ' s intention to improve the recording and monitoring of pet abduction offence , which be really important . I welcome the work of the pet theft taskforce , because so many of its recommendation be be take up , include bring in the option of other animal if that be prove to be the right thing to do . another of the taskforce ' s recommendation be to strengthen the process of the transfer of keeper record on a microchip record . we want all database operator to have robust process in place to ensure that the exist keeper have a chance to object when someone else try to change the keepership detail on the microchip record . that will ensure that steal pet can not simply be transfer to a new keeper . we have consult on other change to the microchippe regime that will make it easy for pet to be reunite with their keeper , and we will publish detail of that very soon . we have already announce the requirement for all owner of cat over 20 week to get their cat microchippe by 10 June 2024 , so people need to get a move on if they have not manage to do that yet . I could say a lot more because there be so much in the Bill . as a Government and as a Department we be look at more thing relate to the important issue of animal welfare . I hope I have demonstrate that we be right behind the Bill . we wish it well on its swift progress . there be no shortage of people offer to serve on the Bill Committee , which be tremendous . I reiterate that once the Bill become an Act it will be commence within three month of Royal Assent , if not before , in England . I will leave that there , Mr Deputy Speaker — I know you be an ardent campaigner for animal welfare . on that happy note , we can all join together and be happy with our day ' s work . with the leave of the House , I thank all hon . member on all side of the House for come to this debate . we have a fantastic debate in which we all recognise the importance of animal welfare not just to we but to our constituent and the whole country . I particularly thank the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , for his support . as we hear from the Minister , we have the support of the Government . I be particularly pleased to hear her comment about commencement . all eight speech be fantastic , and I have take very detailed note . I thank everybody for all their point — the legal point make , the information we have about the journey and the taskforce , the datum , the other possibility for strengthen the Bill , the possible loophole , and all the wonderful story about people ' s dog and animal . I finish by say how grateful I be that we can use this debate to acknowledge the hard work of so many member over so many year . I hope we can pass this legislation for our constituent who be animal lover , and show the nation that we value our animal and we will work together for the reputation of our nation as a world leader in animal welfare . I thank member . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . license Hours Extensions Bill second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . for those in the Chamber who do not know what my constituent know already , I love the pub — especially the pub we have in South Shields . my local — the Marine , the Harbour Lights , the Criterion , the Steamboat , the Alum Ale House , the New Sundial , the Riverside , the Grotto and the Stags Head — be all not just place where people go to drink ; they be where we come to meet our neighbour , friend , family and work colleague , to celebrate important event or just to sit and relax with a nice cold one . it sound like my hon . friend be incredibly busy , with so many local to get around . we be go through Dry January , which be a fantastic opportunity for people to reflect on their relationship with alcohol , but that do not necessarily mean they do not go to the pub , because obviously there be a range of low and no - alcohol beverage out there . will she join I in pay tribute to all those who put the work into those product , but also join I in say that people can still go to the pub and socialise while be responsible ? I could not agree more . my own mam be a teetotaller , yet she often come to the pub to spend time with family and friend , because it be part of the community . as my hon . friend the Member for West Ham ( Ms Brown ) , who have have to leave the Chamber , remind I early , my love of our local pub be strong , but it be strong across all our constituency . if there be one thing that unite we across this country , it be sport or royal event , and the place we tend to gather be our local pub , because they be the beat heart of our community . as the House will know , such event do not always take place at the same time as our pub and hospitality venue be open . that be why the Labour Government ' s Licensing Act 2003 make provision for licence extension . at present , an application for extension would be do by individual licensed premise apply for a temporary event notice . these term need to be apply for by individual premise to their local authority . each application cost they £ 21 and it can take up to five work day as a minimum to be approve . a premise be allow to apply for only between two and 10 short - notice ten in any give year . my Bill will in no way alter ten , but it intend to alter the other option for licensing extension , which be for the Government to make an order under section 172 of the 2003 Act applicable to all premise in England and Wales , specify the date and time of the relaxation and not exceed four day . such order be subject to the affirmative procedure , mean they need approval in both Houses of Parliament . good practice be for the Home Secretary to complete a public consultation and for Parliament to debate the order in both Houses . that full process can take up to six month to implement . in practice , these order have never be oppose and have be use only for important event , such as the coronation of his Majesty the King , her late Majesty the Queen ' s 90th birthday and platinum jubilee , the 2011 and 2018 royal wedding , the 2014 FIFA world cup and the Euro 2020 final , which happen eventually in 2021 due to the pandemic . last summer , we be all so proud — and we remain proud — of our lioness reach the woman ' s world cup final . at last , we hope , it be come home , and it would be the woman bring it . as member will recall , we only know we have make the final on the Wednesday before the match , which be on a Sunday in Sydney , with an 11 - hour time difference . the match kick off at 11 am , with many pub just open their door , mean that spectator miss out on all that pre - match excitement and venue lose out on the extra revenue . there be no time for our pub to apply to their local authority for an extension , and , because Parliament be in recess , there be no mechanism for the Government to issue a blanket extension . the british Beer and Pub Association predict that , over the course of one game , pub goer can buy up to 6 . 8 million pint . have the licensing law not be relax , pub would have sell an estimate 1 . 7 million few pint , cost they more than £ 6 million in lose revenue . under my Bill , that would change , as would the overly bureaucratic , costly and time - consume process for blanket registration . my Bill would amend section 197 of the 2003 Act so that future order for the relaxation of licensing hour would instead be subject to the negative resolution procedure . that would give the Home Secretary and Ministers the power to legislate without the long parliamentary approval process . that be not to say that consultation or forward planning will be dispense with . the Government would need to continue to plan for such exceptional event far in advance , and relevant body such as the police , venue , licensing authority , member of the public , those who live near those license premise and trade association would still be consult . I put on record my thank to the hon . Lady for her extremely common - sense Bill . I know pub like those that she celebrate in the Black Country — in Wolverhampton , in Willenhall , and all around our fabulous region . our pub be the lifeblood of the community . I want to pass on the gratitude of my fantastic pub and my constituent . it be so important that we can come together for these big national event , so I know that she will have broad support across the Chamber for this very common - sense Bill . I do not think that I have be to any of the pub in the hon . member ' s patch , so if that be an invitation , I will join she at some point . there be currently a consultation open on extend the licensing hour for the UEFA Euro 2024 semi - final and final if England , Wales or Scotland be play . I be more than happy to extend an invite to my hon . friend to come to any of the pub in Radcliffe , Whitefield and Prestwich as well , although I get the feeling she will become incredibly busy at this rate — and perhaps not that healthy either . obviously , we have a World cup in the USA in 2026 , and we hope we will bring it home then . there be so many event regularly take place in the US — tennis , or even WrestleMania or the Super Bowl — that people will want to view . will the Bill extend as far as they ? I thank my hon . friend for that invite . of course , if the Bill pass it would apply to those event as well . member would also have the right to object . however , that have not happen in the past and it be unlikely to happen in the future . it be not often that I would be happy to propose more power for a Conservative Secretary of State , but the power would not only ensure that we can come together in our local for special event ; they would also give a much - need boost to our hospitality industry . the point the hon . Member have just make be extremely significant . section 172 of the 2003 Act refer to exceptional international , national or local significance . I truly hope that there be a South Shields day , and I be sure that great event happen throughout the year in South Shields . would this process be an easy way for local area to celebrate thing that would be specific to the locality , whether they be in Bury , South Shields or wherever else ? or be we still talk about big event such as the World cup ? it would apply to local event as well ; each one would be at the discretion of the Home Secretary , in consultation with all the relevant authority . I hope we do use this in South Shields , because we love a good party there and we love come together to celebrate . our hospitality industry struggle during the pandemic . it be estimate that in 2020 it lose a total of £ 200 million every day . the industry have more than 220 , 000 premise license to sell alcohol in England and Wales . it employ about 500 , 000 people in pub and bar across our town and community . across the UK more generally , the industry contribute £ 14 . 3 billion in wage , £ 26 . 2 billion to the national economy , £ 15 billion in tax revenue and £ 2 billion in net capital expenditure . in addition , it have a strong domestic supply chain , with more than 80 % of the beer sell in the UK be produce here in the UK . clearly , what benefit our pub benefit all of we . we should never underestimate their contribution or how hard those in the industry work . I know that probably more than most other in this place . I get the love of the pub from my mam and dad . my dad always know a good pint when he see one , and my mam be a well - respect and brilliant barmaid . it should come as no surprise that I follow in her footstep , end up work in many pub and hospitality venue . in my young and more glamorous day , I be even a promotion girl for our very famous Tuxedo Royale nightclub in Newcastle , with its legendary revolve dancefloor . when I be a local councillor , I chair our licensing committee and gain my level 2 BIIAB personal licence . in honour of her late Majesty the Queen ' s platinum jubilee , I create , mixed and serve cocktail in my constituency at my friend ' s popular caf é and bar , Sea Change . so it be clear that I be familiar with , and happy at , both side of the bar . I be in no doubt about the value that this industry bring , not just to my constituency , but to our economy and our country overall . this be a simple , impactful Bill . the pub be a great british institution and it be right that pub be able to welcome we through their door for event of national and local significance . under my Bill , they will now be able to do so , and I remain hopeful that the Minister agree wholeheartedly with I . it be a pleasure to speak about this Bill , and I congratulate the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) on introduce it . the wisdom of do so will make she the toast of many a pub around the country . the Bill be so helpful because it recognise the flexibility of change from use the affirmative statutory instrument procedure , with all the requirement that go with that , to use the negative procedure . that allow the Government of the day the flexibility to respond to public demand , particularly when thinking of special occasion . rightly , the original 2003 Act do not specify what constitute a " special occasion " , so there can be aspect of flexibility . indeed , it provide that these order should not be treat as hybrid instrument . that be why I be interested in clause 1 ( c ) , which propose to omit section 197 ( 5 ) of the 2003 Act . this basically rule out any possible objection to the statutory instrument in respect of it be deem to be hybrid ; by legislation , it would absolutely not be consider to be hybrid . I just want to make sure that the Minister be happy that this will not trip up any future negative si . the hon . Lady have talk about some of the extensive celebration , and we know that consultation be require only where appropriate . that be also the right balance to have when we be talk about much more local situation , especially if an event be on at 3 or 4 o ' clock in the morning , instead of just extend a little bit long . that would be appropriate . I hope she be proud of the deregulatory approach of the Bill , which I would welcome for the future , especially when we be consider all sort of legislation in that regard . the intention be to reduce bureaucracy . that be why about 80 % of secondary legislation be do through the negative resolution . we need to continue that . there be often a clamour in his House , and particularly in the other place , to try to get everything on the affirmative . it be appropriate , of course , which be why the route exist , but it be also appropriate to consider the practicality of how legislation be enforce . I look forward to the Bill become law . I be sure that many of the pub and other outlet that require licensing hour adjustment in my constituency will welcome it too . let we make sure we get to the next World cup final , so that we can take full advantage of it . I do not think I have ever agree with a Bill in my life as much as I agree with this one . there be literally no word in it that I disagree with . I actually think the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) downplay its significance , which have be amplify by my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) . we talk early about how politic affect and impact people ' s life . I believe that politic start the moment we walk out of our front door . the thing that impact we most be the thing we see all around we . one of the thing that make politic work be community , and for community to work there have to be event and other thing that bring people together to share a communal experience . whether it be the Ramsbottom World Black Pudding Throwing Championships in my constituency , all the wonderful thing that happen in South Shields , or the many , many festival in Norfolk , Suffolk and Hertfordshire , we need a more streamlined process that allow hospitality business to benefit from event that bring people to one place to celebrate whatever it be they be celebrate . council have a part to play . we should be much more flexible in how we use licensing , in consultation with the police and while take account of all the other thing that matter , to support the hospitality industry . one of the problem for the hospitality industry at the moment be , basically , bum on seat — get people through the door . the industry face challenge from supermarket in term of cheap alcohol , energy cost and so on . I be sure the Minister will have time to roll through all the various measure the Government have take to support hospitality , but Parliament should be an enabler to allow business , through their endeavour and hard work , to thrive and succeed . that be exactly what the Bill do . in my view , the Bill should not just be see as be about big national event . it should be see by mp , council , individual , community group and the hospitality sector as a way to allow licensing on a large scale to benefit local , national and regional economy and to keep our pub sector go . the pub sector be go through an unmitigated challenge , especially those pub that be leasehold , and they need all the help they can get . the Bill play a small part in provide help , so the hon . member for South Shields should be congratulate on that . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate and I thank the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) for bring the Bill before we today . it be great to hear about her cocktail making , too . there be not many thing that the british public find more enjoyable than go to the pub and have a pint . our pub be a vital part of the local economy and community . they bring so many people together . that be especially the case when it come to celebrate big special occasion in our nation , most notably his Majesty ' s coronation last May and the late queen ' s platinum jubilee , as well as the Euro 2020 final . on all such occasion , the Secretary of State use power under the Licensing Act 2003 to make an order for the relaxation of licensing hour so that pub can stay open long . however , it make no sense at all that , for that to be possible under the current unamended Act , the order have to be approve by this House and the other place , and that the Home Secretary must also consult those they deem appropriate . the most recent consultation have a very low response rate , which do not match the high proportion of the british public who back change to licensing hour . there be sometimes concern that an extension to licensing hour can lead to a rise in disorder , but there be little or no evidence to support that . it seem only right that we should have the ability to celebrate these important occasion in our pub for long than would normally be permit , and it be the perfect way to express our pride in our country and celebrate all the special occasion with our community . we be a patriotic nation , and we should be proud to mark these achievement together . our time in this place be valuable and important . by pass this Bill we will be remove what have become an administrative procedure of approve the measure under the current Act . instead we will be able to pass the order more quickly , reduce the amount of parliamentary time currently require and respond to event in a much more effective manner . here ' s to hope we be soon able to celebrate more football final so that we can put this new procedure to the test . I believe the Bill do include appropriate safeguard , with the ability retain for any Member of this House to request a consultation if they so desire . the Bill also maintain the need for specific date and time for extension of the hour to be specify so it do not give the green light to this happen on an increase basis ; it simply mean that when an appropriate time come , we be able to make it easy to extend licensing hour . I know I speak for many colleague across the House when I say that I have such great memory of time spend with other in pub across my constituency and the wide region . as a member of the all - party group on beer , I be never shy of say yes to a drink and support our fabulous brewery up and down the country . this Bill have many benefit , include cut bureaucracy and make it easy for the nation to celebrate great success . I thank the hon . member for South Shields once again for bring this Bill before the House today . I call Feryal Clark on the Opposition Front Bench . I start by pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) for bring this important Bill before the House today and for be successful in the private Member ' s Bill ballot . I also pay tribute to the hon . member for Bury North ( James Daly ) , the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) and the hon . member for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) , who have speak in the debate . as we have hear , this Bill would amend section 197 of the Licensing Act 2003 , grant our hospitality sector more freedom to extend licensing hour with short notice , create a simplified parliamentary process and enable a swifter response to relaxation request . it would allow our community to celebrate event of national significance in hospitality venue for long , provide a welcome boost to business and fan . currently , under section 197 of the Act , Parliament must approve the relaxation order in both Houses and good practice be to complete a full public consultation . this can take a significant amount of time . last year , as have be highlight , when our Lionesses progress to England ' s first cup final since 1966 request to extend licensing hour come in late and during a parliamentary recess , make it impossible to grant the request through Parliament . this deny many business the opportunity to serve customer early and the opportunity for supporter to get behind our team . pub , bar and restaurant could open from 10 am for the woman ' s world cup final but could not serve until 11 am . early opening and service would have provide a fitting boost for the Lionesses and also for the hospitality industry , which have suffer so much over the last few year . the industry have suffer a toxic cocktail of rise energy cost , recruitment issue , the pandemic , and cost of living and inflation pressure among other . therefore , now more than ever the sector need a boost . as we all know , and as have be say , sporting event can have a significant impact on the hospitality industry and our community . the world cup final last year be expect to bring a £ 41 million boost to the industry alongside an extra 1 million people in pub , bar and restaurant . our hospitality sector bring a huge boost to the UK economy , generate £ 54 billion in tax receipt alongside £ 7 billion of business investment in 2022 . we all know how important our pub and restaurant be to our community , but the impact go much far . a staggering 42 % of tourist want to visit a pub when visit the UK ; so our hospitality sector be something to shout out about not only here at home , but also abroad . I know many in the House today will share this view . we be currently deny our pub , bar and restaurant a full opportunity to benefit from this . it be clearly an opportunity miss , and I hope it will not be miss again with the progression of this Bill . this summer , we have more fantastic sporting event , include the Olympics , Paralympics and Tour de France , and in 2028 our country will host the Euros . with so much sport on offer , it be not difficult to imagine a similar set of circumstance recur in the come year . I be pleased with the relevant safeguard in the Bill , as mention by my hon . friend the Member for South Shields . for example , the option to consult will be retain , enable decision to be make once potential concern , such as noise and antisocial behaviour , have be consider . the negative resolution procedure will also allow the order to be debate , if successfully request by any parliamentarian . with support from across the House , as well as the hospitality industry , the Bill should progress ; I be very pleased to support it today . I congratulate the hon . member for South Shields ( Mrs Lewell - Buck ) on her success in the ballot and on present this very worthwhile private Member ' s Bill . I can confirm that she have the full support of the government ; we will do all we can to accelerate its progress through the other place . I should add that if — hopefully when — the Bill receive Royal Assent , I think we should take a celebratory parliamentary trip to the revolve dancefloor of the club in South Shields that she use to promote back in the day . as the hon . Lady set out , the Licensing Act 2003 already make provision for the Secretary of State to make an order that relax license hour for an occasion of exceptional international , national or local significance . the effect of the hon . Lady ' s private Member ' s Bill do not result in any propose change to the frequency with which that discretion may be exercise . in fact , it have be use only relatively sparingly , on a case - by - case basis , in the last decade ; she give the example of the King ' s coronation , her late Majesty ' s two last jubilee — the diamond and platinum jubilee — the royal wedding , the FIFA World cup and , more recently , the final of the Euros . the benefit include : support community to come together to celebrate these important event ; support business by enable they to stay open for long and increase revenue ; and ensure that licensing authority do not have the burden of process numerous individual request for extension . the Bill propose to amend the Licensing Act so that the order be subject to the negative resolution procedure , rather than the affirmative . on those rare occasion when the Government have previously extend licensing hour , the plan have always receive cross - party support in both Houses and have pass unopposed . the Bill result in the additional benefit of enable extension to be implement at short notice if necessary , include when Parliament be in recess . current arrangement mean that fast - pace extension be simply not always possible , which be particularly problematic when the Lionesses reach the final in Australia last year . the Bill will rectify that issue and ensure that licensing hour can be extend at short notice where necessary . have say that , let I be clear that the Government fully intend to continue to plan ahead so that , wherever possible , license hour extension order can be bring forward with sufficient time for public consultation and notice . I once again thank the hon . member for South Shields for bring forward this legislation , and everybody who have speak in support : my hon . friend the Members for West Bromwich East ( Nicola Richards ) and for Bury North ( James Daly ) , and my right hon . friend the Member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) . the Bill introduce a simple measure that will free up parliamentary time and help the Government to continue to support our treasured local pub . with the leave of the House , I would like to thank all right hon . and hon . member for their wholehearte support . I look forward very much to my pub constituency tour , but I have to tell the Minister that , sadly , the revolving dancefloor get old and tired — a bit like I — and be no more . I urge some caution around the comment make by the right hon . member for Suffolk Coastal ( Dr Coffey ) ; I be not now suddenly a fan of mass deregulation , and think these matter should always be consider on a case - by - case basis . I have many more people to thank : on the Government Benches , the Minister and the hon . member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) ; Home Office official ; the Public Bill Office ; and my invaluable senior researcher Rebecca Natton . I also thank the british Beer and Pub Association , the Night Time Industries Association , along with its chair and hospitality champion Sacha Lord , and my hon . friend on the Front Bench the Member for Enfield North ( Feryal Clark ) . Most of all , I want to thank all those who work in our hospitality industry , because without their hard work and contribution , our community and local economy would not be what they be today . finally , I would just like to say " cheer ! " to the Government for support my Bill and , in commend it to the House , I add that I definitely owe the Minister , among many more people , a good drink . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . child in Hospital for Extended Periods ( Report to Parliament ) Bill Second read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I start this journey with a ten - minute rule Bill application on 20 June last year . I publish the Bill , which be in the same term now as it be in the last session , in September , but there be no date leave for a debate , so I be pleased to put it forward again in this session . I be delighted at that time to have heavyweight support from all part of the House : my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , who be a consultant paediatrician ; senior labour figure , such as the right hon . member for Derby South ( Margaret Beckett ) , my old friend the hon . member for Eltham ( Clive Efford ) and the former shadow Leader of the House , the right hon . member for Walsall South ( Valerie Vaz ) , as well as many other senior and upcoming colleague . the Bill would require the Secretary of State to report to Parliament on the merit of provide financial support for parent of child receive care in hospital for extend period . the Bill have have considerable media interest and public support , and I thank Ministers for engage with I on it , particularly the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions and the Minister who be present now — the Minister for Employment , my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) , who have personal experience of some of the issue that I be come to . I have also have engagement with the Department of Health and Social Care , and I welcome the fact that the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , my right hon . friend the Member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) , have take an interest in the matter . as I explain last June , my constituent Ceri Menai - Davis contact I after the loss of his six - year - old son Hugh to a rare cancer on 18 September 2021 . he and his wife Frances be in the Gallery today . they have a terrible ordeal for more than 10 month , attend hospital and at time commute daily , as they watch their son rapidly decline over a number of month in hospital from be a sporty youngster , who Mr Menai - Davis be teach golf , to his sad passing . when Mr Menai - Davis contact I at the end of 2021 , he and his wife have just set up a charity call it ' s never you . those be the word that Mrs Menai - Davis — Frances — say to her husband when they get the diagnosis . they want to help parent of very ill child in hospital with mental and physical support and to call for some financial help , too . case where child be in hospital for extended period be rare . the reply I receive to a write question show that about 4 , 000 child a year spend more than two month continuously in hospital . that can involve the parent visit hospital every day or even stay in a flat provide for parent at the hospital . Mr Menai - Davis ask if I could arrange for he to meet a Health Minister to lobby for well care of parent . this have never just be about money ; it have also be about want Government to look holistically into how parent be support in these difficult period . I do that , and the then Minister of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood ( Edward Argar ) , hold a meeting with we on 24 March 2022 , where he hear about a range of practical problem with care for parent in hospital . they include issue such as the ability to access food at the weekend , but also mental and emotional support , because what a lot of those parent be go through be the most dreadful ordeal . the then Minister ask for full detail , which we send to he , with the idea of inform the work on the new generation of child ' s hospital , include on the facility there for parent of very sick child . he respond constructively on issue of outreach to parent , food for parent stay in hospital with child , improve facility for family in the new hospital programme and link NHS charity with the work of my constituent ' charity , it ' s never you . through my constituent ' charity , parent or guardian of sick child benefit by connect with a community of peer , find support , include moral support , share experience and get professionally source and reliable information through a social network . there be a blog and an app . that work be do not by the statutory authority , but through the Children ' s Cancer Platform , the UK ' s only platform build exclusively to support parent in that difficult situation . the charity have start to put wellbee bag into hospital such as Addenbrooke ' s in Cambridge , Great Ormond Street and other , and they be well receive . it ' s never you be also present in Manchester , Birmingham , Cardiff , Leeds and other place . it have partner with several charity across the UK and aim to form an umbrella where all relevant charity can be find in one place . addenbrooke ' s in Cambridge be , of course , the major hospital for East Anglia and be well known to the Minister and I because it be our regional hospital . it be also the site for a propose new child ' s hospital , a project I have strongly support , in part because the east of England be the only part of the country that do not currently have a child ' s hospital . cambridge child ' s hospital will be available to provide care for every child and young person in the region and provide the level of care family need without have to travel hundred of mile . the hospital will also be the first in the world to fully integrate mental and physical health provision , so that young people and their family have complete and seamless care accord to their need . that will be underpin by world - class research in child health and genomic . there will be more provision for intensive care , specialist ward that will provide child in crisis with safe space , and dedicated operating theatre that will facilitate thousand of lifesave procedure . it will be a Cambridge University research facility , and it will integrate cutting - edge treatment and technology bring physical and mental health together , use genomic medicine not just to treat disease but to prevent they . it will put the child at the centre of everything and draw on telehealth technology to connect people beyond the wall . in October , the plan at Addenbrooke ' s for this specialist hospital reach a new milestone , as the green light be give to proceed to the final stage of its business case . Dr Rob Heuschkel , the clinical lead for physical health at the hospital , say : " we know there be widespread support across the East of England for this Hospital — from child and their family to our regional colleague and our regional mps . now be the time for we to all work together to turn our plan into reality . I can ' t wait to get start on the next stage of this Project . " the hospital be provisionally due to open in Cambridge in 2025 , and credit must go to the former Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Matt Hancock ) , who approve the building of the hospital and commit public fund . the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) , who be in the Chamber early , say in a press release that it be the " next stage in establish a world - class child ' s facility for the region " . after our meeting with the then Health Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood , the executive director Nick Kirby arrange for Mr Menai - Davis to share his information about what parent need with the team for this new , cut - edge child ' s hospital . they have have productive meeting with he , in which he have share insight that the team have describe to I as " inspire " . it be confirm to I recently by Chris McNicholas , the deputy project director , that next step would include how good to deliver psychological support to parent and to link with the charity ' s blog and app . before turn to the financial aspect , I would also like to mention the need for improvement in cancer care more generally . while we need exciting new hospital , primary care need to come up to standard as well . on 19 November 2021 , I speak in a debate call by my hon . friend the Member for Hertford and Stortford ( Julie Marson ) about cancer awareness and diagnosis for young people after the sad death of Jessica Brady , a young satellite engineer , of a rare cancer , and the campaign of her parent , who be my constituent . my hon . friend , Simon and Andrea Brady and I deliver a petition with 213 , 000 signature to Downing Street . Jessica ' s cancer have be misdiagnose on several occasion , and sadly this very clever young woman have die . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that the work of parent who be themselves suffer and face challenge be incredibly powerful ? this morning I hear Ceri Menai - Davis speak on breakfast television , and a question be raise about whether it be right for people with live experience to be the one to make the change in the law that we make . in my constituency there be the tragedy of a child , Harper - Lee , who die after swallow a button battery , and her mother Stacy have campaign for two and a half year for Harper - Lee ' s law . I just want to give a shout out — along with my right hon . and learn Friend , I hope — to all those fantastic parent without whose work we as parliamentarian would not be able to do our job . I entirely agree . give the tragedy that they have experience , it would have be possible for Ceri and Frances Menai - Davis to simply collapse , but they do not . they decide that they be go to do something positive , so they set up a charity . the enthusiasm and strength of determination that that couple bring to this situation be something to be see , and I certainly pay tribute to they . my right hon . friend the Member for Charnwood respond to the debate by explain that we be work on achieve well long - term plan for the early diagnosis of cancer , include rare cancer , and on try to prevent what have happen to Jessica from happen again . hertfordshire ' s hospital trust be work extremely hard on that . the Government ' s aim be for three quarter of cancer to be diagnose at stage 1 or 2 , which would enable an additional 55 , 000 people to survive cancer for five year long than they do now . as well as new hospital , we need to see that improvement in diagnosis , which be already take place in the rapid diagnostic centre and service that the new integrate care board have be press for . there be currently 102 live rapid diagnostic centre pathway . in addition , East and North Hertfordshire NHS Trust , inform by experience such as Jessica ' s but also bear in mind what have happen in the case of Hugh , be work on a much more co - ordinate multi - disciplinary approach . what this show be that we be at the start of a new era , with well hospital service and an understanding of the need to prioritise cancer not just in the elderly but in the young , and in respect of not just the well - know cancer but the rare one . I pay tribute to the work of the all - party parliamentary group on cancer , which I support . the aspect of the Bill raise by my constituent be the financial impact on parent of have to spend month in hospital support sick young child . my constituent be self - employ , and it cost he a lot to put his child first , but he be able to manage , not only because of his strong personal finance but because of the support of his family in keep his business go . however , he fear for other who be less fortunate and find themselves in the same position . he give I example of people his charity be help — people who be lose their livelihood to support their child in hospital . as I have say , I have raise the financial issue with Ministers in the Department for Work and Pensions and the Department of Health and Social Care , and I have be point to some limited help for parent such as leave entitlement , often unpaid , and bereavement leave , as well as universal credit , under which if income go down the benefit go up . parent who have work for the same employer for at least a year be entitle to 18 week of unpaid parental leave , and there may be help from disability and carer ' benefit after a period . in this Bill , I ask for a report to be make to Parliament by the Secretary of State on the merit of provide financial support to the parent of child receive care in hospital for extend period . I be ask for an assessment of current policy and the likely effect of some additional support on both parent and child , and I be ask the Government to consult parent , healthcare professional , charity and other offer support . although it ' s never you be the focus of what Ceri and Frances be do , I have also hear from other charity , such as together for short life , which talk about the huge financial strain on family of have a child in hospital , and Young live vs Cancer . that charity want I to raise one particular issue : the NHS do offer a healthcare travel cost support scheme , but apparently the operation of that scheme be not very helpful . it be ponderous and do not deliver the money quickly enough . perhaps that be something the report could look into . I hope it will also be possible for a meeting to take place between the Minister and Mr and Mrs Menai - Davis , so that they can explain what they hope to get from the process . the Bill would not cost a great deal , as there be so few case , but it would mean that in tragic circumstance all parent could concentrate on help their child rather than worry about money . in a way , the Bill be also about Ceri Menai - Davis and his wife Frances be able to help other parent who find themselves in the situation they find themselves in . the report be likely to touch on some of the other issue that family have take up with Ministers and that I have raise in my remark , and I hope it will inform a holistic approach to improve care for young cancer patient and their parent . it would be a legacy for Hugh — we could call it " Hugh ' s report " . I call the Opposition Front Bencher . I congratulate the right hon . and learn Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Sir Oliver Heald ) on put forward such articulate argument . I hope he will not mistake my brevity for not be absolutely serious , but I be certain that he want to hear from the Minister , as do the family in the Gallery . as such , I will leave my remark there — I be happy to share the note that I have prepare if the right hon . and learn Member would like they . labour will support the Bill . I thank the hon . member for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) , and thank and congratulate my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire ( Sir Oliver Heald ) for bring this important issue to the Floor of the House . I know , as he have explain today and in previous conversation with I , that when Ceri and Frances contact he after the tragic loss of their son Hugh to a rare cancer at the tender age of six , he be motivate to see how he could help to ensure that parent be support at such a difficult time . I know that I speak for everyone in this place when I say that our heart go out to they . I be move when I read my right hon . and learn Friend ' s speech from last September , and again today . I understand personally the disbelief behind the word of Frances and the name she have give to their charity to help parent of very ill child who be in hospital for extended period : it ' s never you . the challenge be that sometimes it be . the purpose behind the Bill be to enable research and produce a report on both the emotional and tangible support that be available and that which be need — like the support that the charity be give , but look at thing in a more join - up way to work well and more effectively for parent during such difficult time . I stand here as somebody who have have cancer more than once . you do not choose it : it choose you . as Ceri and Frances know , your world be turn upside down . your day be drive by medical appointment and the need to have question answer , juggle life ' s issue alongside want to do anything to try to protect your child and make the pain go away . my right hon . and learn Friend have speak to I about Ceri and Frances ' s motivation to do something for parent who have also travel the journey of their child have an extended period in hospital , and some of the financial , emotional and physical worry that that bring . I wish to take a moment to lay out what support be available , but I will do so rapidly because my right hon . and learn Friend go over it . there be help to deal with some of the financial worry . the disabled child addition be available to low - income family on universal credit who be entitle to qualifying disability benefit such as the child disability living allowance . a parent of a child who qualify for that support can also claim carer ' s allowance as a result of their additional responsibility if they and their partner be provide at least 35 hour of care each week . additional support be available to family on universal credit who may need further help . for family sadly affect by bereavement , there be fund in England and Scotland to help with funeral expense . for people on universal credit , an open discussion with their support work coach allow for health and caring responsibility to be account for and enable access to support . I note that Ceri have work with Addenbrooke ' s Hospital to share his and Frances ' s experience to inform the team as they plan the new child ' s hospital . I know that the hospital have be keen to ensure that family and patient feed in their experience alongside clinician . that be a pioneer world - first model of care that look to treat the whole child — both their physical and emotional need — as well as provide paediatric genomic medicine . behind every young patient , wherever they be treat right across the country , be a family . I recognise how difficult it be to navigate the practical and emotional challenge . that be why it ' s never you and charity like it make a huge difference and play a pivotal role in support family , and I thank they all for their work . I reiterate the word of the my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Jo Gideon ) : parent ' voice be so important . I hope that I have the House ' s support , have already speak to the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , my right hon . friend the Member for Pendle ( Andrew Stephenson ) to ensure that we can work closely . he have assure I that he stand ready to look at what can be do and to support we in ensure that the right conversation be hold . I know that it be charity such as it ' s never you that most often help parent to access practical support and connect with other family who be go through comparable experience , gain moral support and love from each other , and share way to overcome issue and stop the pain of thinking that they be the only one . I know that nothing stop the lie awake at night , watch the clock tick through the hour and hope for miracle , but we want to help family who be go through such difficult time . I commit from the Dispatch Box to work closely with my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for North East Hertfordshire on this important issue . in particular , we be commit to establish a stakeholder forum to consult parent whose child have receive care in hospital for an extended period , and with healthcare professional , charity , civil society and organisation that offer related support . we want to hear about people ' s experience , understand their concern and listen to idea and suggestion , and then develop a set of potential proposal base on the feedback . I suggest that a meeting with my office be arrange at the early opportunity so that Ceri and Frances ' s knowledge can help to drive and determine who will be key to that consultation . I will personally ensure that the forum be establish in a timely manner and that it progress quick than a legislative route would allow . to that end , I suggest to my right hon . and learn Friend that he withdraw the Bill , that we begin discussion now , and , in Ceri ' s word , that there be purpose to the pain . with the leave of the House , I call Sir Oliver Heald to wind up . I be delighted by the response , which basically give I what I ask for in the Bill . of course , if the Bill go through all stage in this House and the Lords , it would take many month before we could start the process . I think my hon . friend the Minister say that she hope to meet the six - month period for the report at the end . on that basis , I be delighted go forward with her proposal , which short - circuit the process . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the motion . motion and Bill , by leave , withdraw . business without Debate Arms Trade ( Inquiry and Suspension ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . the Deputy Speaker interrupt the business ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 1 March . Multi - Storey Car Parks ( Safety ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 23 February . pet ( Microchips ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 26 January . Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 ( Amendment ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 1 March . zoological Society of London ( Leases ) Bill Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill Bill read a second time ; to stand committed to a Public Bill Committee ( Standing Order no . 63 ) . Border Target Operating Model : Health Certificates and SMEs Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) the Government intend to introduce a charge of £ 40 a time to import thing from the EU into the UK from April . that might come as a surprise to many business , because they do not know about it , and most of our constituent likely do not . I think that be because the Government be not even sure that they want to do it . today , I hope to get some answer about the border operating model on behalf of all those who will pay the price if it actually happen — namely , the british public . Brexit be the gift that keep give . like contract recurrent food poisoning , we think we have see the bad of it only to feel that sick feeling in our stomach again . pint of wine and blue passport can not make up for the inflationary impact of this late dose of extra paperwork and delay . for the avoidance of doubt , we have leave the European Union . the Government can not make Brexit work , and it be cause problem to million of people every day . I be not stand here advocate that we ask to rejoin , either . frankly , with all the problem we be face for business and job because of it , we do not have time for such treaty negotiation . this debate be about what this government be do now to manage our border , and the very real consequence of their decision for food security and the cost and nutrition of food . currently , the UK import around 46 % of our food — we be self - sufficient for 54 % . our trade with other country be the reason why we have food to eat and be not all just eat turnip and cabbage , delicious though those home - grow delicacy be . in 2021 , we import £ 10 billion - worth of fruit and vegetable from the EU , £ 6 billion - worth of drink and the same amount of meat . the EU account for 90 % of all the dairy , beef , egg and pork product come to the UK , and nearly two third of all food and feed not of animal origin . some 40 % of that be from just four country : the Netherlands , Ireland , Germany and France . it be little wonder that Brexit have already hit our food price and supply . research from the Centre for Economic Performance at the London School of Economics show that . we all see the empty shelf and rationing , and business be clear that it be Brexit , not Ukraine and the energy crisis , that be push up the price of production and cause all those problem . that be all before we even get to the new import control . it be a combination of high transport cost , supply chain design , custom complexity and reduce volume . whatever we do at the border will be critical to the nation ' s capacity to eat more than porridge , give that oat be one of the few thing for which we produce 100 % of what we consume . let we not pretend that other country can pick up the slack for we . although the Government be negotiate free trade agreement with six other country and have two agree , these will not be able to replace the food we import from the EU . and if we care about animal welfare , we should want to work with the EU because it still have equivalent animal welfare standard , contrary to Australia and New Zealand , from which food can now be import , tariff free , without any equivalence to our welfare standard . frankly , geography matter , which be why add more friction to the process will lead not only to shortage and delay but to inflation and cost for everyone . under this Tory hard Brexit , we leave the EU customs union , the single market and the VAT area , and we have be threaten our own custom control ever since . understandably , business have be drive mad by the fact that those control have be postpone five time . in the meantime , we have all be stick with the bill at the checkout . the white elephant of Brexit stand empty at our expense , as the Government have spend more than £ 700 million on border facility and job . Sevington in Kent cost £ 154 million , include £ 70 million on the border control post infrastructure alone , and £ 25 million have be spend on Portsmouth , £ 12 million on Holyhead and £ 3 million on North Weald . I be sure those community would rather use the money for something else . in theory , all of that will finally change this year . in just 12 day ' time , if business want to import pork , beef , reindeer , camel , frog ' leg , cream , yoghurt , flour , beeswax — but not honey — or animal paw , they will need a health certificate . that all mean find a vet who will sign the health check . minister have tell I that more than half of the expect £ 330 million annual cost of the scheme to business will come from these certificate , but they have also say that it be not as bad as the more onerous tracking system they previously suggest , which would have cost business £ 520 million a year . frankly , that be like I tell my kid that they should be grateful that I have let they keep the bell on their Lindt bunny because I be originally go to take that too , along with all the chocolate . health certificate be one thing , but the Government have also be consult on introduce a charge to cover the cost of the scheme — the so - call common user charge . that be plan for April , just 100 day away . the consultation say the charge could be £ 43 , but it might be less or more . it would be helpful for british business to know whether it be come in at all in 100 day ' time , as well as know what the charge will be . the charge be intend to apply to each consignment , whether it be one leg of lamb or a van full of reindeer and frog ' leg . as 65 % of lorry come into this country carry multiple consignment , know as groupage , it be clear how expensive this way of apply the charge will be . the Government have therefore choose to fund the new border by impose fee directly on business that import . the pledge that Brexit would be a bonfire of regulation turn into a smoulder pile of paperwork that will kill import for small business . it do not have to be that way . a veterinary deal with Europe could remove the requirement for export health certificate . join the pan - European Mediterranean convention , which be wide than the EU and include Israel and north african country , would also help , as business could make use of the EU hub where product from outside be often consolidated . frankly , even if business pay , there be no guarantee that they will get a service . the Government be plan to check just 30 % of import . just when I think it could not get any more complicated , in 286 day ' time they want to introduce safety and security declaration for all EU import . these will be require even if the pallet come in on a truck be empty . it rely on the single trade window process not be a total disaster , yet at present business have no idea whether the technology be work . of course , all of this be different for business trade from Northern Ireland . those " not for EU " sticker , which will help to protect the border with the EU and Ireland , reflect the lunacy of all those people who try to argue that technology could prevent trade barrier . in a situation where we be the small market , it be not hard to see that , when company trade in multiple nation be face with such policy , they will move away from do business with we , focus instead on less complicated market . between 1999 and 2000 , the EU account for 50 % to 55 % of UK export . by 2022 , that have already fall to 42 % . trader in Belgium have already publicly say that they be not go to spend any more time try to figure out what the Government be up to . they say that they have be march up the hill too many time , only for the scheme to be delay at the last minute . they say that they be willing to risk friction rather than the paperwork . the Institute of Export and International Trade point out that more than 20 different measure on import will come into force between the end of last September and the end of this year . the freight representative point out that the lorry driver need to go through the same entry and exit system , and will be in the queue behind the schoolkid and the holidaymaker under - go check . they will be stick behind those school coach , with all the knock - on effect for the picking up and transportation of import consignment . the representative say they estimate that would create around 70 mile of freight traffic , turn Dover into a literal lorry park . little wonder that Nichola Mallon , Logistics UK ' s head of trade policy , say that business have still not be give all of the detail and guidance they need to plan and prepare and that there be a high risk of delay , traffic congestion , high price and reduce choice for consumer . we all understand the need for check to stop thing such as african swine flu , but give that this country have not even sign up to be part of the share biosecurity alert , it be clear that there be other thing we could do to help tackle that . those charge with run the service certainly have their doubt . health inspector at Dover have have a 70 % cut to their funding to do any of the work to try to stop infection reach our shore in the first place . those in Dover would know about all this , because they be in the frontline . goodness know what be happen in the west coast port , which be operate to a different timetable . that will open up further loophole and complication with port such as Holyhead , Pembroke and Fishguard , which be the land bridge to Ireland , also face confusion . I have a series of question for the Minister , and I hope that she will take intervention when she respond so that we can get to the bottom of this . first and foremost , can the Minister actually confirm whether any check will be make to lorry on our border in 12 day ' time to see whether the good in they have environmental health certificate ? what work be her Government do to ensure that there be enough vet in Europe to provide the certificate ? can she confirm whether they even exist ? if there be not go to be check on lorry in 12 day ' time , as she have previously tell business , when will the health certificate check come in ? what will happen to a lorry that do not have one ? can she confirm that the opening hour for the border control post match the just - in - time supply chain , so that we do not see lorry of rot food sit in our port wait to be check ? when will the common user charge be apply and what will it be ? if it be common , it should be uniform , so can she tell business here and now whether it be happen and what it will be per consignment , or whether it will take account of groupage ? the Government say in December that they would provide this information and business be still wait . will the Minister confirm what the common user charge will cover ? be it in addition to all the other charge from the Port Health Authority and the Animal and Plant Health Agency , and do it cover custom fee ? if the check be not go to be make , when will they be make ? what will she do about traffic management in Kent ? currently , there be 40 inspector in the port of Dover . how many have her Department assess be need , and why be only 30 % of they be check , if this be about biosecurity ? what will they do if a lorry go to the wrong port , or try to shop around ? do she expect different border control port to charge the same fee for their service , or will they set their own ? how will she stop those lorry from try to game the system ? can the Minister tell we about the status of the single trade window project , and whether Fujitsu be involve in its delivery at all ? the Government have admit that this will cause inflation , but they be try to claim it be go to be just 0 . 2 % over three year . in their response to I , they say that " will depend greatly on how business adapt their business model and supply chain to integrate the new control regime " , put the pressure on business to pay for the Government ' s scheme . will the Minister clarify what the variation might be if business do not do that , and what have be calculate into inflation , if they can not get to grip with the Government ' s new system ? what impact be her Department predict that the situation will have on food price in that first year — not over three year , but in the first year ? why will this Government not come clean on the data source they be use to make those calculation ? what commercial confidentiality behind calculate inflation and the impact of the policy possibly trump the public ' s right to know how expensive it will be to put food on the table ? no doubt the Minister will say that an outbreak of foot and mouth disease would cost business more than this scheme , but will she set out the cost of the administration of this project , separately from the health check that the Government have calculate ? can she clarify the timetable for the introduction of the west coast port charge and what the difference in the regime will be ? will she explain why the Government have not negotiate a veterinary deal ? be they even look at the pan - Euro - Mediterranean convention to try to solve these problem without give business all this extra paperwork ? above all , what be she do to warn the public about the potential impact on their food supply and cost ? or be she prepared to say here and now , on the record , that there will be no delay in food provision , no shortage and no increase in price ? nobody want to eat meat that have be sit in the dock or beeswax that be off , even if it have a health certificate when it start its journey . because of what be happen , the UK have already drop from fourth in the World Bank logistic performance index to joint 19th . the main challenge result from border friction , which be contribute to the decline in just - in - time supply chain and efficient custom . it do not take a rocket scientist to work out that this scheme will clearly make thing hard for british business . no wonder it have be delay five time . with so many people struggle with the cost of living crisis , surely the good thing be to think again . the scheme will make thing hard for british business ; at bad , it will be a nightmare . I ask the Minister : will she give people some relief and say that it be off again ? I thank the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) for secure this important debate . as she will know , the upcoming implementation of the first phase — I stress that it be the first phase — of the border target operating model be a really important milestone for the UK and reflect a long period of intensive work across Government . I be pleased to have the opportunity to talk about what be in place and to address some of the issue that the hon . Lady raise , but I be sure she will accept that she have a very long list of question . I will do my good to answer they , but if I do not cover they all , I will ensure that she get some write answer . I hope that be acceptable . introduce biosecurity control on import be not optional . now that we have move away from the EU ' s rigid biosecurity surveillance and reporting system , we be responsible for protect our own biosecurity from threat such as african swine fever , which be really serious for our pig industry , and Xylella , which would be terrible for our plant community in this country . such threat could devastate UK industry and cause significant damage to the environment , public health and the wide economy . the hon . Lady be absolutely right that geography matter ; that be why we be take the issue so seriously . we have to keep these threat out of our country . biosecurity control be also essential to protect our export and our international trading interest . our trading partner want to be reassure that we maintain the high biosecurity standard . we have the option to introduce additional control if there be disease that we really need to get a grip on . as I be sure the hon . Lady will know , we introduce some additional measure on swine fever back in 2022 , which show how importantly we take the issue . the overall ambition of the border target operating model be to introduce robust , risk - base control that protect biosecurity while reduce administrative and cost burden for importer . recognise that the introduction of these essential new control could pose challenge for business , we develop the border target operating model in extensive consultation with industry , include many small and medium - sized enterprise , as I be sure the hon . Lady be aware . during that design phase , some 10 , 000 participant join our many stake - holder event , we receive 200 write response to our invitation to comment through our online portal and we have over 650 detailed response at focus session with food retailer and producer , the logistics sector and many other . we have respond to the feedback that we receive , as will be evident in the implementation of the first phase of the border target operating model from 31 January this year . for example , we have design a new certification logistic pilot to support the movement of good from hub in the EU . we have provide further facilitation and guidance for importer use groupage model — the hon . Lady refer to groupage model , where a lorry deliver a whole lot of different model in one lorry — in term of move sanitary and phytosanitary good into the UK , in order to make the system of certification more streamlined . the phase approach implementation will allow business time to familiarise themselves with the new requirement before full implementation , on 30 April this year . the measure will make the process of comply with the sanitary and phytosanitary control easy for a wide range of business , include sme . for example , the certification logistic pilot will allow certain business move good by groupage to use a single export health certificate from the point of origin through to the good arrival in Great Britain . amendment and simplification of export health certificate will mean individual certificate can now cover multiple type of animal product , which should help some of those group such as dairy or cheese . over the long term , as promise when we publish the UK 2025 border strategy in 2020 , the border target operating model will introduce a range of technological advance to ensure a fully 21st century border that facilitate UK trade . the development of the single trade window will make the process of import to the UK simple and more streamlined , enable importer to meet their border obligation by submit information only once . to clarify , the single trade window will be come in later . as I be sure the hon . Lady know , the platform be be develop and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs be work on that . ultimately , the border target operating model achieve the low regulatory obligation for business , consistent with the need to protect biodiversity and public health , in addition to facilitation from well use of technology and datum . that be achieve through a more proportionate approach to risk . we have already remove import health control for fruit and vegetable , such as citrus and mango , which be either not produce commercially in the UK or present a negligible risk . the hon . Lady refer to vegetable ; lot of vegetable have be look at to come up with a simple system . I have check and if it be see that a risk might arise to do with any of those commodity , such as vegetable in particular , we have a right to change that later . for low - risk animal product , as a matter of routine we will require only electronic prenotification , which be already in place . low risk plant produce , such as fruit and vegetable , with no specific disease or pest risk associate , will be remove from import health control requirement altogether . for example , cucumber and gherkin be class as low risk . on all high and medium risk good , while we will retain health certification and physical inspection , more UK - specific target risk categorisation allow for low inspection rate than under the EU model , while documentary - only check will be perform remotely . as a result , the additional cost to business associate with the new system — the btom — be substantially less than they would have be if we have extend the inherit EU model to all of our import . compare to the original import model that be schedule to have be introduce in 2022 , we believe that the new model will reduce cost to business by around £ 500 million per annum , by reduce the complexity and volume of paperwork associate with the importing . I have time to refer quickly to a couple of question . rise — the hon . Lady ask a whole range of question , which I can skim through . shall I do that first ? it might help if I clarify which particular question , as I recognise that there be many there . the hon . Lady mention that she have have a number of letter from and exchange with Baroness Neville - Rolfe on the whole datum issue . as have already be convey to she , it be decide that his Majesty ' s Government would be unable to release the full input of the modelling that be include in the datum because some of the source be commercially sensitive , particularly in relation to other port and so forth . I think she be probably go to ask I about that again . in term of food price inflation , initial analysis have indicate that the policy introduce would lead to an approximate increase in consumer food price inflation of less than 0 . 2 % over a three - year period . we also have to consider the potential cost of a major disease outbreak , such as foot and mouth , which would have far more serious consequence . the 2001 foot and mouth disease outbreak cost about £ 12 . 8 billion in 2022 price : £ 4 . 8 billion to the Government and £ 8 billion to the private sector . we have to look at all that . the Government ' s model on the inflationary impact of the border target operating model have be undertake through a peer - review econometric model ; there have be a huge amount of modelling . I hope that answer that question . can I be critical ? we be talk about something that be potentially come in in 12 day ' time . I recognise that I give she a long list of question because there be so much that come from this policy . let I give she three that we would really appreciate a direct answer on . first , what check will be do in 12 day ' time at our border on the lorry ? will there be any check at all on the health certificate ? secondly , what will the common user charge be in April , in 100 day ' time ? what will business have to pay to import ? thirdly , will she say on the record , here and now , that there will be no impact on food pricing or food availability in the UK as a result of these policy — yes or no ? on the last question , I have give the hon . Lady the information on what our modelling highlight about the potential approximate increase of food price inflation : less than 0 . 2 % over a three - year period . in term of check on lorry at port from January , health certificate will be need on medium and high - risk good . there will be a change in the pre - notification methodology , but not on introduction of the new requirement . a sample of remote documentary check will be require on some medium - risk consignment . obviously , we will still be educate and work with business about what they need to do and how to comply . we will definitely write to the hon . Lady if there be any further information because the issue be very detailed , and it be hard to try to race through the answer here . I thank the hon . Lady for raise these issue . obviously , this be a whole new regime for business to get use to . I think I have lay out that it be a much simple system — more transparent and risk base — and that it be base on a great deal of consultation . I shall leave it there . can I just put on the record on behalf of british business — this be mad ? we be talk about something that be happen in 12 day ' time . truck do not know whether they will need to provide a pdf of the check at the border . in 100 day ' time , there will allegedly be a charge , but nobody know what that charge will be , so nobody can factor that into their cost , let alone — can I just intervene — order . one at a time , please . if the Minister can tell we what the charge will be — please , do let we know . I just want to put on the record that the common charge be not set yet . we have consult on a rate and will be publish the rate immediately . there will also be no check on the border , and documentary check — as I say , actually — will be remote . there be go to be no stopping of consignment . so there we have it : in 12 day ' time , business will have to pay for these certificate , but they will not be ask to provide they , and in 100 day ' time they might have an extra cost but they do not know what it be — order . the Minister have sit down ; I take it that she be give way so I allow the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) to come in , but the Minister have now clearly sit down , so that be the end of the debate . question put and agree to . House adjourn .