Oral Answers to Questions Wales the Secretary of State be ask — Budget 2024 what assessment she have make of the impact of the autumn Budget 2024 on Wales . if I may , I first want to thank the worker and emergency responder across Wales for all their work over the weekend to protect people and property during Storm Darragh . I be sure the whole House will join I in send condolence to the family of the two people who lose their life . the autumn Budget deliver for Wales for the first time in a generation , and the Welsh Government have receive the large settlement in real term since devolution , at £ 21 billion . that include an additional £ 1 . 7 billion through the Barnett formula , provide a spending boost to public service such as the NHS . I associate myself with the word of the Secretary of State about all those impact by Storm Darragh and all those work hard to restore power . the Welsh Government ' s draft Budget yesterday note that the UK Government will be provide additional support to mitigate the cost to public organisation of the additional employer ' national insurance contribution . however , the detail remain to be publish . give that many of these organisation will soon be set their own budget , could the Secretary of State urge the Treasury to bring forward clarity urgently so that local authority and public organisation in Wales can have the clarity they need to set their budget ? the Welsh Government will receive additional fund to help with the cost of national insurance contribution , on top of that record Budget settlement of £ 21 billion — the big since the dawn of devolution . however , that critical funding and all the investment announce in the Budget yesterday by the Welsh Government will only get to where it be need if the hon . Gentleman ' s party colleague in the Senedd vote for the Budget . the Budget commitment of £ 80 million for the Tata transition board be indeed welcome , but Thrive , the domestic abuse organisation in Neath and Port Talbot , be concerned that since the Tata announcement there have be a rise both in report incident of domestic violence and in demand for prevention service for perpetrator . can the Secretary of State provide assurance that the transition board will look at this as a priority fund project ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for all her work to tackle domestic abuse . she be such an effective advocate for the people she campaign for . I also want to thank Thrive for all the work that it do in Neath and Port Talbot . I want to assure my hon . friend that one of the transition board ' s aim be to support the wellbeing of worker and their family in our steel community , and we be study the datum closely to target future release of funding in the most effective way possible . I call the shadow Secretary of State . first , my sympathy go out to all resident and business impact by the weekend ' s storm . I also thank Andrew R . t . davy for his leadership of our party in the Senedd , and I wish Darren Millar well . the UK Labour Chancellor have plummet business confidence through the floor with her Budget action on the family farm tax and the new job tax , and by whack the hospitality sector with an £ 1 billion bill , accord to UK Hospitality . will the Secretary of State confirm that there be no benefit for Wales , despite her figure , and that this be simply a money merry - go - round taking from Welsh business , destroy job in the meantime , and squash growth , mean poor public service as the frontline remain squeeze ? I appreciate that the hon . Lady , represent a constituency on the south coast of England , may not be familiar with the landscape of business in Wales . in Wales , 94 . 6 % of small and medium - sized enterprise be microbusinesse , and 3 . 8 % be small business . we protect the small business and more than double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 in the Budget , mean that over half of small and microbusinesse will pay less or no national insurance contribution at all . I call the Plaid Cymru spokesperson . the Secretary of State celebrate funding for Wales yet fail to mention that , outside of the NHS , the Welsh Government Budget be 10 % low in real term compare with — wait for it — 2010 . this fall far short of fix the foundation of collapse public service . do she believe that a Budget that leave Wales with less compare with 14 year ago be really a Budget worth celebrate ? I think someone should get the right hon . Lady a calculator , because the Plaid Cymru ask for the Budget would create at least £ 5 billion a year in unfunded bill for the taxpayer . its plan for HS2 , the winter fuel allowance and the two - child benefit cap would mean significant spending cut in Wales . we be not prepared to subject the people of Wales to that . if she want further investment in Wales , her party need to vote for the Welsh Government Budget in the Senedd . I be glad that the Secretary of State have mention hs2 , because her Government ' s Budget confirm that HS2 will run to Euston , and that stretch alone will cost £ 9 . 4 billion . hs2 construction work also mean that passenger from Wales will face disruption , as train will be divert away from Paddington for seven year . she previously say that hs2 be " no long in existence . " do she stand by this statement , give that Welsh passenger will bear the huge cost of this project ? the right hon . Lady know that I be refer to the second phase of HS2 , which the Conservative Government cancel . and she know , because I have say it before and will say it again , that I remain very angry about the previous Government ' s broken promise on rail and on HS2 . I be work in partnership with the Welsh Government to develop a long - term , sustainably fund package of much - need rail infrastructure improvement . I meet great Western Railway with the Under - Secretary of State for Wales , my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) , just last week to discuss mitigation in relation to Old Oak Common . I call the Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee . Clean Energy Projects what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on support for clean energy project in Wales . this government be support clean energy project in Wales . seven tidal , solar and onshore wind project be successful in the recent contract for difference round , and we have give the Celtic and Anglesey freeport the green light , which will enable green industry to grow , create new job . I be also delighted that 13 project have be successful in the first round of the Crown Estate ' s £ 50 million supply chain accelerator fund , which will support the delivery of float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . the Under - Secretary of State for Wales , my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) , be recently with I in Llandudno at a roundtable with the main stakeholder in float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . this project be ready to go , and it will bring massive benefit through cheap , more secure energy for everybody across the UK . what be the Secretary of State and the Wales Office do to ensure that the contract be sign , seal and deliver as quickly as possible ? we want these benefit to come via Wales , not via other region or country . I thank my hon . friend for her question . we know that float offshore wind will be critical to deliver our clean energy mission , and Wales have a huge part to play in that . the UK Government , jointly with the Welsh Government , recognise these opportunity and what they present for Wales , and we be determined to take full advantage of they . my colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero be work to move the process forward as quickly as possible , note the need for certainty and a tight timetable so that we can get on with it . steel be a key component of develop clean energy project . in response to my write question , the Government confirm that they have estimate the cost of nationalise British Steel to safeguard the plant ' s future . can the Secretary of State explain why the Government do that for British Steel but dismiss nationalisation in the case of Port Talbot ? the Government have no plan to nationalise British Steel . Tourism Levy : job what discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on the potential impact of the propose tourism levy on job in Wales . the Welsh Government have introduce a Bill in the Senedd that will give local authority in Wales the choice to introduce a levy on overnight stay in visitor accommodation . it will be for individual council to decide whether they will introduce a small charge pay by people stay overnight in commercially let accommodation in Wales to help support a thriving tourism industry . I thank the Secretary of State for her response , but have she assess the regional impact of this levy ? although the impact can perhaps be level out and absorb across the whole of Wales , some community be clearly go to be hit hard than other . how will they be compensate for the impact ? More than 40 country and holiday destination around the world have introduce a form of visitor levy , include Greece , Amsterdam , Barcelona and California , and many of we have pay such levy abroad without notice . the money will help to support a long - term thrive tourism industry in Wales . I be confident that the Welsh Government will work with business and tourist alike to get this right . do the Secretary of State agree that the successful introduction of similar scheme in place such as Manchester , and indeed in successful tourist destination around the world , show that the Conservatives should stop fear - monger and support something that could really boost Welsh tourism ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . as I say , such levy be already the norm in more than 40 country and holiday destination around the world . Manchester show it can work , so why can Wales not show that ? I call the shadow Secretary of State for Wales . tourism be vital to the Welsh economy . however , Labour ' s new tourism tax have merely create attraction closure and strike , from the zoo in Ynys M ô n to the cliff railway in Aberystwyth . the Welsh Government proposal will put more job in jeopardy , leave hotel room empty and simply send Welsh family across the border on to flight for their trip , treat and holiday . do the Secretary of State really agree with her colleague in Cardiff Bay that the potential price of 700 tourism job and the loss of tourism to Wales , together with £ 40 million of revenue , be worth pay ? I be afraid I do not recognise any of those figure from the hon . Lady . as I say , in Manchester , a similar scheme have be introduce ; it have be highly successful and have raise £ 2 . 8 million in just one year . she should be more ambitious for Wales . NHS Waiting Lists what step she be take with the Welsh Government to help reduce NHS waiting list in Wales . what assessment she have make with the Welsh Government of trend in level of NHS waiting list in Wales in the last 12 month . both the UK and Welsh Governments be seize of the need to drive down waiting list . the spending review provide the Welsh Government with an additional £ 1 . 7 billion for next year to invest in public service such as the NHS . the Welsh Government recently announce an additional £ 50 million in this year to reduce the long waiting time by increase capacity for more people to be see and treat . the disastrous record that the Labour party have in healthcare in Wales over the past 25 year be cold comfort to resident in South West Hertfordshire if that be the template the party intend to use across the whole of the United Kingdom . do the Secretary of State agree that the key to reduce waiting list in Wales and South West Hertfordshire be invest in our healthcare infrastructure and particularly new hospital ? if I be the hon . Gentleman , I would be a bit embarrassed about raise the subject of new hospital give his government ' s record . the Welsh Government have just have a £ 21 billion record settlement , £ 1 . 7 billion of Barnett consequential and , with the Welsh Government ' s Budget yesterday , £ 610 million for the NHS and social care to bring down waiting list and increase capacity . the Welsh Government be focus on the priority of the Welsh public . the Labour party have be in charge in Wales for 25 year . the percentage of patient in Wales wait more than a year for treatment be 22 . 5 % , compare with 4 % in England . why , in 25 year of be in charge , have you not reform the NHS in Wales and bring down waiting list ? I be not sure Mr Speaker be in charge of reform the NHS in Wales . I say to the hon . Gentleman that under the previous Conservative Government , waiting list increase by a large percentage in England than they do in Wales . as the Secretary of State have just say , it be under the last Prime Minister that waiting list increase fast in England than in Wales . do the Secretary of State agree that recent Budget announcement by both the UK and Welsh Governments demonstrate that both government understand the importance of fix our NHS and deliver for the people of the whole United Kingdom ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . as I say , there be a record settlement from Welsh Government yesterday , with £ 610 million announce to bring down waiting list and increase capacity in the NHS and social care . if the party on the Opposition Benches want more money and more investment in the NHS , they need to tell their colleague in the Senedd to vote for the Budget . the Welsh Budget yesterday announce significant extra funding for the NHS in Wales . I be surprised : why be the party on the Opposition Benches vote against it ? I think their stance on the Welsh Government Budget say it all . they be more bothered about score cheap political point than they be about deliver service and investment for Wales . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Wales . the NHS in Wales be break . under Labour , wait continue and no family , it seem , be without somebody wait in an ever - grow queue . it be the high on record , with one in four of the Welsh population on a waiting list . in September , 801 , 000 people be in need of treatment . if someone have lose their winter fuel allowance , along with any hope of see a gp or consultant and get social care , what do the Secretary of State really have to say and do to reassure old people that the Labour Government here and in the Senedd have the ability to tackle that disgrace of a backlog ? I say to the hon . Lady that both the Welsh and the UK government be look after pensioner in Wales . we make the tough , but right , decision on winter fuel payment , give our economic inheritance from the previous Conservative Government . we be focus on deliver funding and support to the people who need it most . there have already be a 152 % increase in pension credit claim since July ' s announcement , and those people who receive the winter fuel payment will get , on average , an extra £ 1 , 900 a year in pension credit . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . resident in rural Powys be suffer as a consequence of delay to ambulance turn up , or , in some case , of those ambulance not turn up at all . in one recent example , the family of a stroke victim in my constituency have to drive their paralysed and vomit mother in a car to a hospital in Hereford , after be tell that there would be a four to seven - hour wait for an ambulance , and that be after they have already be wait two hour for an ambulance to arrive . shockingly , that be not an isolated case ; it be an experience to which many people across rural Wales can relate . will the Secretary of State tell I what action she be take to reassure my constituent that an ambulance will turn up in their hour of need ? I be very sorry to hear about the experience of the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . yesterday , the Welsh Government announce £ 610 million additional funding for the Welsh NHS and for social care . I hope that his colleague in the Senedd will vote for the Welsh Government Budget so that we can see that investment go into the NHS to deliver the improvement in wait time that we all want to see . strengthen the Union what step she be take to strengthen the Union . we be work in close partnership with the Welsh Government to grow our economy and unleash Wales ' s potential . this have already deliver tangible result , include secure more than £ 1 billion investment and hundred of job for north Wales , a well deal for steelworker at Port Talbot , and a record budget settlement for the Welsh Government to spend on public service , include provide funding to keep coal tip safe , which the previous Government do not do . I be pleased to hear the Secretary of State announce the Welsh economic growth advisory group . will she explain how the resetting of relationship between the Welsh and UK Governments be strengthen Wales ' s position in the UK industrial strategy , and also improve access to vital service and relationship over the border in the Forest of Dean ? the Secretary of State be very pleased to chair the first meeting of the advisory group last week . the group will work with we to inform the UK Government ' s industrial strategy to ensure that we build on Wales ' s proud industrial heritage and develop the job and industry of the future . this be the first time that representative from both government , from business , education and industry group and from the union have come together to shape cross - Government UK policy , prove the difference that two government work together for Wales can make . there be no well way of strengthen the Union than improve the healthcare of people in Wales . somehow , at the general election , Labour manage to mislead the public in England into think that it could bring the change to the health service . in truth , we need Welsh people to have a much improve health service , as the people of England have have under conservative control . [ interruption . ] only the Labour Government could suggest that long wait list in Wales and bad outcome in Wales be somehow something to crow about . they be not . what will be do about it ? what do you make of that , Mr Speaker ? with the additional funding that we have provide for the Welsh Government , I can assure the right hon . member that there will be proper investment in the Welsh health service , which do not happen for 14 year under the Tories . economic growth : North Wales what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on increase economic growth in north Wales . I have regular discussion with Cabinet and Welsh Government colleague on economic growth . I recently have the pleasure of visit Airbus in Broughton alongside the Prime Minister , and I address CBI Wales member alongside the First Minister . since come into government , we have work to drive over £ 1 billion in private investment from Eren Holding and Kellogg ' s into north Wales , create and sustain over 400 job . cross - border co - operation and investment by north Wales and the Mersey Dee region of north - west England be essential to maximise growth on both side of the border . key to achieve that will be improve railway connectivity . will the Secretary of State meet I and the cross - party , cross - nation Growth Track 360 group to explore how we can make that happen and help the economy on both side of the border prosper ? I know the key role that good cross - border transport play in strengthen economic and social tie across north Wales and the north - west of England . I be pleased to join the Welsh Government Cabinet Secretary for Transport at Flint and Chester station recently to announce a 40 % increase in rail capacity , with 50 % more timetabled service on the north Wales main line . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend , representative from the Mersey Dee region , and Growth Track 360 . today , thousand of farmer have descend on this place in a further bid to get the Government to listen and to realise the consequence of their action . be it not time to do the right thing by those who feed our nation and stop the family farm tax grab , which will see our farm decimate and our food security put in jeopardy ? that certainly will not help economic growth . the UK Budget deliver £ 5 billion for farming over the next two year , and I be pleased that this Government be able to protect Welsh farm budget for the next financial year . yesterday ' s Welsh Budget allocation confirm protection of the basic payment scheme funding for the next year , and provide additional revenue and capital funding to help the sector transition to the new sustainable farming scheme . that have be welcome by farm union across Wales . Transport Connectivity what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help improve transport connectivity between Wales and the rest of the UK . the Government be absolutely committed to work collaboratively with the Welsh Government to improve transport connectivity within Wales and with the rest of the UK . we be already make progress . Network Rail and Transport for Wales announce a joint programme , which , as the Secretary of State say , will see 50 % more timetabled service on the north Wales main line . I be delighted to see the tri - mode train bring into service on the south Wales metro last month . the low Thames crossing be a vital link between our channel port and Holyhead port . I know Labour be against new road building in Wales , but a north Wales corridor connect our port would be a vital piece of transport infrastructure for our whole country . will the Minister lobby the Welsh Government on that , for Wales and for our entire United Kingdom ? I remind the right hon . member that Holyhead be recently give freeport tax status , and I assure he that the Welsh Government have not rule out a third Northern Ireland crossing . on our transport policy in Wales , casualty fall by a quarter on 20 - mph and 30 - mph road last year . do the Minister agree that that will be of great comfort to school like Osbaston in my constituency , and to parent like Rhiannon in Flintshire , who praise the scheme for help to save her son ' s life after he be hit by a car ? indeed . the Welsh Government have be clear that the priority objective of the 20 - mph policy be to save life and reduce casualty . recent collision datum provide an encouraging sign that the policy be move in the right direction . violence against Women and girl what recent discussion she have have with the Welsh Government on tackle violence against woman and girl . the Government hold regular discussion with the Welsh Government on tackle violence against woman and girl to help drive forward the Government ' s ambition to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . most recently , on 13 November , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , who have responsibility for safeguarding , meet the Welsh Minister for Social Care and the Welsh Cabinet Secretary for Social Justice . they discuss in detail measure to tackle violence against woman and girl . the safety of woman and girl be as important in Newcastle - under - Lyme as it be up and down our United Kingdom . the Welsh Government have have a violence against woman and girl strategy since 2022 . sadly , the previous UK Government do not have one for my constituent in England . what lesson can the new Government learn from the Welsh Labour Government on keep our woman and girl safe ? as my hon . Friend say , the Welsh Government ' s violence against woman and girl strategy have be pioneer delivery on that important issue for two year now . the UK Government ' s aim of halve violence against woman and girl in a decade be ambitious , and learn lesson from the Welsh Government will help . as part of their long - stand commitment to tackle violence against woman and girl , South Wales police have introduce new measure , include the Cardiff safety bus , which have receive national recognition for safeguard more than 3 , 000 vulnerable people on the street of Cardiff since September 2021 . I call Jim Shannon . thank you , Mr Speaker . hear , hear ! [ interruption . ] go on , Jim ! do you always have the last question before Prime Minister ' s question deliberately , Jim ? it be up to you , Mr Speaker , but you always call I ; you be very kind . thank you . tackle violence against woman and girl can be do regionally , but be it not time to do it on a national level , with England , Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland work together ? absolutely ; that be central to our manifesto . our commitment will take in the whole of the UK — particularly the Home Office commitment on policing , and the commitment in the legislation that we intend to bring forward . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 11 December . may I start by welcome the fall of Assad ? the people of Syria suffer for far too long under his brutal regime . what come next be far from certain . we have be talk to regional and global ally to ensure that it be a political solution that protect civilian and minority , and absolutely reject terrorism and violence . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark welcome the fall of Assad , and with his hope for the syrian people . since Middlesbrough council have return to Labour control under Mayor Chris Cooke , it be no long subject to Government intervention in its child ' s service or to a good value notice — and it be on track to become financially stable . I know that the Prime Minister will want to join I in congratulate Mayor Cooke and the council on their recent success . can he confirm that the spending review will not simply end 14 year of conservative austerity , but will unwind it , and provide the resource that council need to properly serve our community ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to that mayor , and to all local representative across the country , who do a fantastic job even when funding be cut to the bone during the past 14 year of Tory government . we be boost local government funding by £ 4 billion , and invest £ 1 . 6 billion to improve road . I be proud to see the work on the carbon capture cluster in Teesside , which will create 2 , 000 new job . I call the Leader of the Opposition . last week , the Prime Minister do not seem to want to talk about appoint fraudster to his Cabinet . in fact , he seem to want to talk about immigration , so let we talk about immigration . he have relaunche yet again , with many new target , six milestone and five mission , but why be cut immigration not a priority ? I be glad that the Leader of the Opposition now want to talk about immigration . last week , she say that she do not want to — and for good reason , because the previous Government preside over record high level of immigration . the figure just a few week ago show net migration of nearly 1 million . that be unprecedented — a one nation experiment in open border under the last government . she be the champion ; she stand up and praise the then Tory Home Secretary for listen to she on remove cap on migration visa . she be applaud it . now , she be furious about what she be campaign for . we will drive down lawful migration ; we will drive down illegal migration . the Prime Minister talk about open border , but he be the one campaigning for free movement . I be , in this House , ask for a lift in skilled migration ; he be support all the people who should not have be in this country . he want we to relax immigration , but as he be so keen to talk about the past , let we look at his record . four year ago , the Prime Minister sign a letter demand that foreign criminal be allow to stay in Britain . dozen of Labour and Liberal Democrat MPs repeatedly sign these letter , insist that rapist and murderer be allow to stay here . one of those criminal , Ernesto Elliott , have 17 conviction , include for knife crime . after his deportation be block , Elliott go on to murder someone . he be able to stay here and murder because people like this man campaign against deport criminal . will he apologise for sign these letter ? first , I remind the Leader of the Opposition that the number of migrant come to this country under her Government ' s watch — nearly 1 million — be over four time the number who do so when we be in the EU . they lose control of the border , and the particular example she put to I be an example of failure , under her government , to take the necessary measure to keep our country safe . that be a ludicrous assertion . the Prime Minister be the one who be repeatedly sign those letter . he even ask we to pause all deportation . he do not want to talk about his past , but that letter be just the tip of the iceberg ; there be more . the Prime Minister actually complain that the immigration system be work to " deter migrant rather than provide support . " he say that he be " proud to have serve as Jeremy ' s Shadow Immigration Minister " . he boast that he " take the last Labour Government to court for cut benefit for asylum seeker " , and say that he would never take " a target - base approach to immigration . " if he want to talk about immigration , let we talk about his record ; we can talk about it all day . the Prime Minister say that he want to talk about immigration . I have commit to a cap on migration — why win ' t he ? the Leader of the Opposition talk about my record . for five year , I be the chief prosecutor , prosecute people who go to prison , many of whom be then deport . while she be talk , I be actually do the hard yard , convict those who should be in prison . she preside over record number of asylum seeker in this country — a record number of lawful and irregular migrant — in 14 year in which her government lose control of the border . they set a cap for each of those 14 year , but it be not hard , it do not stop people come , and they get a record number . they should apologise for what they have do with their open border policy . the Prime Minister do not answer a single — [ interruption . ] order . do the hon . member interrupting want to leave ? if you have not get the gut to stand up to the comment , you should not be in here . the Prime Minister do not answer a single question . he never answer question . he want to talk about the past ; the fact be that we have acknowledge where thing go wrong , but he will never take responsibility . he have scrap a deterrent that the National Crime Agency say we need . since he come into government and scrap the Rwanda deterrent , small boat arrival have increase by nearly 20 % . his own mp be complain about have to house asylum seeker , so can the Prime Minister tell the House how much more his Government will spend on hotel accommodation because he scrap the deterrent ? I be invite to tell the House what go wrong under the last government — that would take we all afternoon . we be go to smash the gang that be run this vile trade . we sign a landmark agreement with Germany this week . [ interruption . ] order . Mr Philp , you have be very loud . I think now we be go to have a little bit of silence from you . this week , we sign a landmark agreement with Germany . the Leader of the opposition should welcome that , because it will make sure that we have the power to take enforcement action across the continent , where it be need . we have set up the Border Security Command ; we have commit £ 75 million on top of the exist £ 75 million ; and we be extend the power , so that they be like counter - terrorism power . we have return 9 , 400 people who should not be here . a record flight get off . the opposition talk about get flight off , and have do for year , but they do not succeed . we get the flight off . the Prime Minister say that he want to smash the gang ; the only thing he have smash be his own reputation . what he have be agree be not go to do anything . the cost of the Iraq agreement be half a million pound . that would not even buy a house in his constituency . many of the thing that he be take credit for be our agreement . let we talk about what he put in his manifesto . the Prime Minister promise to end asylum hotel . he promise , and he be Prime Minister now . but in Altrincham and Peterborough , his Government be expand the use of asylum hotel , because he unilaterally disarm the deterrent . in fact , a man who arrive by small boat tell Sky News he be " happy " Labour be in power . that man say the Conservatives " want to deport we " but labour be " make the procedure easy for we " . he be right , isn ' t he ? the Leader of the opposition should welcome the Iraq deal . anybody who want to deal with this vile trade would have welcome it . she should also welcome the german deal that we do this week . many of the boat that be find their way to the channel be come through Germany . that be well document . there have be a difficulty in take enforcement action , which , if she spend more time research that than her terrible joke , she would know about . we have sign an agreement to take enforcement action in Germany to stop those boat get to the coast . that be effective action . she should welcome it ; it be really good news . all law enforcement think that it be a good thing . why do she think it be a bad thing ? because the number be go up , under his watch . the Prime Minister have consistently back criminal over law - abide british people . he defend terrorist like Hizb ut - Tahrir in the European Court . he argue that " all immigration law " have a " racist undercurrent " . he vote against life sentence for people smuggler . he vote against more than 100 measure to control migration . he even say it be wrong when the Conservatives take away Shamima Begum ' s citizenship . now he have appoint her defence lawyer as his Attorney General . event in Syria mean that we may see more small boat arrival . for once , will he take the side of the british people , and strip citizenship from jihadi terrorist and supporter of Assad who want to come back and destroy this country ? I be Director of Public Prosecutions for five year . unlike anyone on the Conservatives ' Benches , for five year , I be prosecute hundred of thousand of criminal . that include huge terrorist gang and rapist . for three of those five year , I be work with the then Home Secretary , Theresa May , who commend the work that I do at the end of those five year . the Leader of the opposition stand there and say that I have not do anything in law enforcement ; I dedicate five year of my life to law enforcement , and lock up criminal , which be more than she can say . it would be easy to take the opposition seriously if they actually get serious — not a sliver of remorse , not a hint of contrition . it be like the arsonist complain about the people who be try to put the fire out . all they do be come every week with more and more complaint . just wait till they get their hand on the people who create the mess that we be clear up . we be fix the economy ; we be end their open border policy ; and we be take down the waiting list . that be what people vote for ; we be deliver it . in the last couple of month since I speak to the Prime Minister here about the need for social and industrial investment in Cornwall , we have have a fresh tranche of share prosperity funding , a huge boost to international interest in our clean energy industry , and a road map to great political autonomy that reflect Cornwall ' s unique national identity . will the PM join his Minister on that visit in the spring to meet representative of those industry at first hand , and spell out a road map for Cornwall , to help Britain become a clean energy superpower ? I thank my hon . friend . he be a champion of the extraordinary potential of Cornwall , particularly in our transition to clean power by 2030 . next week , we will publish our english devolution White Paper , set out our ambition to move power from Westminster into every part of England , include Cornwall , and I know that he and his colleague be meet the Deputy Prime Minister to discuss this next week . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . while Syrians be rejoice at the overthrow of the brutal Assad regime , many people there and around the world be worried about what come next , as indeed the Prime Minister say , with threat of extremism , isis terrorism and unsecured chemical weapon . only an open political process can bring peace and stability , but that will require the full backing of the international community . do the Prime Minister share my concern that President - elect Trump say about Syria : " the United States should have nothing to do with it " ? if America step away , will the Prime Minister step up and work with other ally to provide british leadership over Syria ? the right hon . Gentleman be right that this be a very serious moment . we all welcome the fall of Assad and I hope that this can be a much - need turning point for Syria , but that be by no mean guarantee . that be why we have be speak intently and intensely with our ally in the region and across the globe about how we ensure that this be peaceful , political and a rejection of terrorism and violence . this could be a turning point , but in the past we have think that what come next will necessarily be well and that have turn out not to be the case . that be why we be work so hard on this and show the leadership that the right hon . Gentleman and the House would expect from this Government . I thank the Prime Minister for that reply and hope that we can continue to work on a cross - party basis regard Britain ' s role in secure peace and stability in the middle east . move on to another subject , british farmer be the good in the world , and that be because of our tradition of family farm , where from generation to generation a commitment to high - quality food , to our precious environment and to animal welfare be pass down . but family farm be let down badly by the last Conservative Government , with their botched transition to new payment scheme and their unfair trade deal with Australia and New Zealand , which have undercut british farmer . now , many family farm feel that this government ' s Budget will be the final blow . will the Prime Minister change course and recognise the vital role that british family farm play ? as the right hon . Gentleman know , we put £ 5 billion into farming over the next two year , which be a record number , under the Budget , and last week alone there be £ 350 million to support farmer in the United Kingdom . that contrast with the last government , under which there be an underspend of £ 300 million in relation to farmer . on inheritance tax , as he know , in a typical family case the threshold be £ 3 million , and therefore the vast majority of farmer will be unaffected , despite the fearmongering of the conservative party . place of worship be vitally important not just for practise one ' s faith , but for local heritage . the Government ' s list place of worship grant scheme currently provide much - need tax relief for religious building in need of renovation , but it be schedule to end next year . what assurance can the Prime Minister provide my constituent that the Government will continue to support restore our much - cherish place of worship , such as Holy Trinity church in Horwich ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and recognise the important role that these building play at the heart of community , particularly at a time like Christmas . a wide range of fund be available for maintenance and restoration , include the National Lottery Heritage Fund ' s place of worship scheme . detail will be confirm in the usual way by department at the spending review . last week , my neighbours Omar and Delal Al Shaqaqi , who serve south Belfast as a doctor and a classroom assistant , receive the news they have be dread . Delal ' s mother and brother be among 23 Gazans kill in their tent by an israeli airstrike in the so - call humanitarian zone of Al - Mawasi , and other family member be fight for their life in a barely function health system . the crisis in Gaza be get bad , not well . none of we in this Chamber can end their nightmare , but we can do more . the Government have rightly use every tool at their disposal — include sanction on arm , trade and official — against Putin ' s Russia . when will Israel be hold to the same standard for genocide ? when will this Government confirm further sanction , recognise the state of Palestine , and offer some hope to beleaguered Gazans and the many million who be watch on in horror ? may I start by say that I be sorry to hear of the dreadful loss of the family of the hon . member ' s constituent ? there have be far too many example like that . I be pleased to see that there be now a ceasefire in Lebanon . we desperately need that now in Gaza , which be something we have be press for , for some time . there be intense talk go on to that end at the moment , as she know . that ceasefire would provide the space for the hostage to be allow out . they have be there for a very long time . it would allow desperately need aid to go in at speed and at scale , but it also open the potential for the pathway to the two - state solution , which I believe be the only peaceful way to resolve this ongoing conflict . my constituent in the east of Kirkintilloch be experience a housing emergency . there be not enough house for family or for those flee domestic abuse , and what house there be be in drastic need of repair . do the Prime Minister agree that the Scottish Government should prioritise repair that housing emergency and fund local authority to address this crisis of their own making ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that , because in Scotland house building have grind to a halt , homelessness be at record number and child in temporary accommodation be at record number . this Budget be the big settlement for Scotland since devolution , so the Scottish Government have get the power and they have get the money ; what they have not get be any more excuse . the people of Thornbury have be promise a new health facility for more than 20 year , but they have see every proposal fall by the wayside . that be why it be a great relief to resident when the Minister for Secondary Care ) confirm to I in write that the funding to rebuild the centre would be make available . however , we be still month away from see the final plan sign off , never mind have spade in the ground . what reassurance can the Prime Minister therefore give I and my constituent that this be not just another hollow promise and that the proposal will be approve swiftly once they hit the Health Secretary ' s desk ? what the hon . Lady raise be obviously a cause of concern for her constituent . we be determined to fix the broken nhs that we inherit from the conservative party , and we have set out our target in the " plan for Change " last week . as she know , the Department of Health and Social Care , NHS England and the local care board be work together to deliver for patient in her constituency . it be important , as she will appreciate , that we go through the proper business case as part of the rebuild , but I can make sure she get a meeting with the relevant Minister to be update on behalf of her constituent . follow year of real - term cut to its funding , St Catherine ' s hospice , which serve my constituency , have recently make a number of redundancy . palliative care be hugely important to our community , and I pay tribute to those who work in it . will the Prime Minister join I in thank St Catherine ' s for its work and outline how the Government will look to support palliative care move forward ? I join my hon . friend in that , and I recognise the vital role that hospice play in provide support to people at the end of their life . I understand the challenge that they face . Most hospice receive funding by provide NHS service , and funding will be set out in the usual way . Mr Speaker , " lose a farm be not like lose any other business — it can ' t come back . " those be the word of the Prime Minister , which he say to the National Farmers Union in order to get farmer ’ vote . can he understand why farmer in Broadland and Fakenham and around the country now think that his Administration be duplicitous ? I think everybody welcome the £ 5 billion over the next two year that we put in the Budget — [ interruption . ] opposition member shake their head , but we have put in £ 350 million in the last week alone , compare with the £ 300 million underspend by the last government . as the hon . Gentleman well know , in an ordinary family case the threshold be £ 3 million , which mean the vast majority of farmer will be unaffected . fourteen year of the conservative party gutte local government have leave council have to make impossible choice . my constituent be recently shock when Cannock Chase district council propose the closure of the Museum of Cannock Chase and the Prince of Wales theatre . will the Prime Minister ask the Culture Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , and his official to please meet I to see what can be do to save our museum and theatre ? opposition Members groan at the question . the Leader of the opposition say they be come to term with their failure . well , they be obviously struggle just a bit . I understand that that will be a huge loss to my hon . friend ' s constituency . council across the country be at the frontline of the last government ' s ruinous economic failure . we announce £ 4 billion in additional funding for local government , a real - term increase in core spending power , and will continue to do so . I will ensure that my hon . friend get a meeting with the relevant Minister . these last month have show that cruel Westminster Governments of whichever party continue to target the weak in society while the Scottish Government will continue to protect they . while the Labour party have vote to continue the Conservatives ' two - child benefit cap , the SNP be abolish it . while the Prime Minister pick the pocket of pensioner of their winter fuel allowance , Scotland ' s First Minister , John Swinney , have reinstate it . give that support for Labour be plummet and support for scottish independence be once again lead in the poll , who do the Prime Minister believe make the good decision for Scotland ? those who be elect in the general election on 4 July . they be sit here on the Government Benches . in century past , the three river that converge in the centre of Carlisle make the city highly defendable against invade army . however , in 1985 , 2005 and 2015 those same river overpower the city , leave thousand devastate by flooding . what assurance can the Prime Minister give my constituent that the flood defence that the Conservatives promise but fail to deliver will be complete under this government ? may I start by wish my hon . friend a happy birthday ? she raise a really important matter for her constituent , who have face appal flooding too many time . the last Government leave our defence in a state of absolute disrepair . we be invest £ 2 . 4 million this year , and the Environment Agency be currently study option to improve protection in Carlisle . I will make sure that she get a meeting to discuss the specific option . in recent week Sir Richard Dearlove , the former head of MI6 , have warn that conflict between Russia and the west be no long come ; it have already come . with Russia poise to spend more than 6 % of its gdp on its military next year , the time for review and road map be over . will the Prime Minister recognise the urgency of the situation and commit to spending at least 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence without further delay ? the hon . member be right about the importance of national security , particularly at the moment . at the Budget we deliver a £ 2 . 9 billion increase in the Ministry of Defence budget . we be pleased to deliver the large pay rise for our armed force in 22 year , and we will set out the path to 2 . 5 % in due course . that target , of course , be last meet under the last Labour Government ; it be not meet once in the 14 year that the Conservatives be in power . in October 2023 , my constituent Mark Somerville receive the shattering news that , at 43 , he have motor neurone disease . he have since set up the Mark Somerville Foundation and be do incredible work to raise awareness of the condition . Mark be in the Gallery today and will later speak to mps about live with MND . will my right hon . and learn Friend join I in recognise the work of Mark and his foundation and commit the Government to do all they possibly can to support effort to find a cure for this devastating disease ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this case , which he mention to I last night . I pay tribute to Mark , who be in the Gallery , and the work of his foundation . this diagnosis can so obviously be absolutely devastating , and it be testament , if I may say so , to his bravery and compassion that he be raise awareness of the condition . I think many of we would question whether we be capable of do what he be do , give the diagnosis that he have have . last week I pay tribute to the inspirational Kevin Sinfield , another incredible champion . I say to both of they , and to all those campaigning , that we stand with you in this fight . Ryan Cornelius have be detain in Dubai for 17 year . his property be seize in what be a very unjudicial process . the Prime Minister have be to the United Arab Emirates . when he go there , do he demand that Ryan Cornelius be free , give that the United Nations conclude that his detention be arbitrary and in violation of international law ? will he make Magnitsky sanction deliverable on those responsible for that after his release ? that be an important case . it have , of course , be raise by the Government a number of time , include by the Foreign Secretary as part of the trip that I be on . I myself raise human right issue . it be a serious case , and we will continue to press for the outcome that I know he and his family desperately want . Stellantis could not have ask for more from the worker at the Luton plant . like every generation of Vauxhall worker in Luton , they meet every target set , they make every innovation demand of they and they never give up . contrast that with Carlos Tavares , the ceo who quit day after make the decision to threaten more than 1 , 000 job in Luton . do the Prime Minister agree that in the light of the sudden departure of the ceo , Stellantis should review the decision , do what be right by our town and stay put for good or until an alternative be find , to ensure that Luton ' s manufacture history be also our future ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue , which be of grave concern to her constituent . the Government be totally committed to support the worker and their family at this uncertain time . the Industry Minister will meet the company this week to discuss plan for worker and the site , to ensure that dedicated support be in place . we will continue to do so , because I know that it be an issue of considerable concern to her constituent . Ben and Henry , otherwise know as the Ocean Oarsmen , will be row across the Atlantic next year for the Alexander Devine child ' s hospice in Maidenhead , with a target of raise £ 50 , 000 . that hospice , Thames hospice and many other be struggle with rise cost and the plan increase in employer national insurance . will the Prime Minister join I in wish Ben and Henry the good of luck on their journey , and will he take this opportunity to scrap the NI rise for hospice ? I pay tribute to Ben and Henry , and to everyone support their campaign . it be an important issue , and the funding arrangement will be set out in due course . for retail worker in Bolton North East , the busy Christmas season be overshadow by shoplifting , which the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers ' late survey identifie as the lead trigger of abuse , threat and assault . at a police drop - in in Bromley Cross , officer welcome the Government ' s commitment to clamp down on low - level shoplifting and prosecute repeat offender . what more can the Government do to tackle shoplifting and support retail worker and business during the critical holiday season ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . I have speak to many who work in our shop who be very concerned about shoplift . it go out of control because of the approach take by the previous Government . we be bring it under control . it be not low level ; it have a huge impact on other customer and a particular impact on staff work in supermarket . that be why we be dedicate funding to train police and retailer and to support specialist analyst team to crack down on the gang that be target retailer . in the last few week of the last government , we award million of pound to remote train station such as Hedge End and Swanwick in my constituency under the Access for all scheme . in the first two week of this Government , that be scrap . will the Prime Minister use his good office to give my constituent and station across this country an early Christmas present , and give we our money back , please ? this be an important issue for the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . the problem be that the last Government make lot and lot of promise , but never set aside the money to pay for they . that be why we pick up a £ 22 billion black hole . they make promise on infected blood and on Horizon , but they do not put aside the money to pay for they . we have have to inherit that and clean it up . we will get on with delivery , but we have to balance the book and stabilise the economy first . this past weekend , my market town of Kirkby Lonsdale suffer a devastating fire , result in the loss of a local man ' s life . the whole town centre be closed and many local business have be affect . Sunday be mean to be a day of celebration , with Christmas market , family game and community event . instead , the town face a tragedy . how can the Government support community like Kirkby Lonsdale to rebuild and recover after tragedy such as this ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this awful situation . we can only imagine the impact it must have have on the town and on the family and friend of the victim of this tragedy , and I commend the community , which have come together in an extraordinary way in the aftermath of this awful event . I will ensure that she have a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss how the Government can support her community at this vital time . this week , I be contact by my constituent , Sally , who be a gp . she have call 999 on Monday to try to get an ambulance for a critically ill patient , but could not because all the ambulance be stick outside Hereford A & E wait to unload their patient . at the same time , we know that medically fit patient across the country be unable to be discharge because of the social care crisis . what be the Prime Minister do to fix social care and to fix patient flow through hospital so that ambulance can get back to save life ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise this case . it be something that be all too common because of the fact that the last Government break the NHS . she will have see the Lord Darzi report that we publish on the state of the NHS — [ interruption . ] no , Members opposite should be utterly ashamed of themselves for what they do to our NHS . the hon . Lady raise an important point . that be why we have put a record amount — £ 25 billion — into the NHS in the Budget . we have set out in our priority what we need to do with the NHS , and we will work at pace and as we hard as we possibly can . she be right to raise this matter . the Conservatives should hang their head in shame . Border Security : collaboration with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on the new border security agreement we have reach with Germany and with the Calais group of Interior Ministers from the UK , France , Germany , Belgium and the Netherlands , which meet in London yesterday with Europol , Frontex and the European Commission to discuss strengthen action against small boat crossing and organised immigration crime . in the light of fast - move event in the middle east , we also discuss the situation in Syria at the Calais group yesterday , and I will briefly address that issue first . as the Foreign Secretary tell the House , we welcome the fall of the Assad regime , but continue to closely monitor this fast - move situation , where there be significant risk of instability . consider that , I have take the decision to temporarily pause decision on syrian asylum claim . all five Calais group country have take the same decision . we will , of course , continue to keep all guidance relate to these asylum claim under constant review , and we will keep the House update in the normal way . last week , I update the House on the new agreement the Government have reach with the Iraqi Government and the Kurdistan regional authority to tackle organise immigration crime . this week , we have reach new strengthen agreement close to home . Smuggler and traffic gang have be allow to get away with their vile trade in people for far too long . Britain need strong border and a properly control and manage asylum and immigration system , but , for the past five year , we have have the opposite . that be why we be prepared to do the hard graft to get the system back under control and tackle the gang long before they reach our shore . immediately after the election , we begin to strengthen our international collaboration to go after those criminal gang , include by increase the number of National Crime Agency officer in Europol , set up the new Border Security Command and make the new agreement with the G7 . already , that strengthen collaboration be deliver result . in the last few week alone , we have see the arrest of a major suspect in the supply of boat and engine to the channel , which involve co - operation between Belgium , the Netherlands and the UK . a major operation last week against a syrian and iraqi kurdish gang operate through Germany and France be lead by french police , but be support by intelligence from the NCA and involve 500 german police officer . it deliver not just a series of arrest of suspect gang member , but the seizure of multiple boat and engine destine for the channel — boat that could have lead to thousand of people make dangerous journey . criminal need to know that there will be no hiding place . the gang who undermine our border security by facilitate small boat cross the channel be also facilitate dangerous and illegal journey into other european country and commit wide crime , include serious violence , exploitation , money laundering and drug trafficking . these gang operate across border . therefore , we need law enforcement co - operation across border to bring they down , and new system to work across different prosecutorial and legal system . we need to rebuild basic intelligence sharing and co - operation that be damage under the last government ' s post - brexit arrangement , and new expertise be need to deal with evolving threat . this week , I sign a landmark agreement with my german counterpart , Minister Nancy Faeser , to tackle irregular migration . the new joint action plan be the first of its kind between the UK and Germany . it include much strong operational co - operation , such as information and intelligence sharing , include very practical basic measure such as increase the use of the siena — Secure Information Exchange Network Application — Europol system by the NCA to share information with german police to swiftly pursue investigation ; strong partnership to deliver prosecution ; new work to take down social medium content that be be use as advertising by organise smuggler gang ; joint working and co - ordination with transit and source country ; support each other on return ; and establish the first german international liaison officer in the Border Security Command . importantly , the joint action plan mean strengthen the law in Germany to tackle people smuggler . we know that gang be route many supply chain through Germany , include use warehouse to store boat and engine that be destine for the channel . clarification of the law in Germany will mean that activity facilitate migrant smuggling to the UK in Germany will be a criminal offence . this be a major change which will make it easy for german prosecutor to dismantle supply chain and prosecute the smuggler involve . it mean that in Germany and across Europe , we be send a clear message to the smuggler : " activity to smuggle people into the UK be a criminal offence and you will be prosecute and bring to justice . " Germany and the UK will also work together through Europol to investigate the end - to - end criminal activity of kurdish gang network that be operate in both our country , in co - operation with the Iraqi Government and kurdish authority follow the agreement I reach in Iraq . the joint action plan embody our share determination to pursue organise immigration crime , but it also reflect the same determination and commitment share across other near neighbour , embody in our meeting with the Calais group in London yesterday . I strongly welcome the new announcement from the french Interior Minister on increase the police presence and enforcement along the french coast through the winter , alongside the appointment of a new coastal pr é fet . the increase violence we have see on the beach towards french police be a total disgrace . the Calais group also agree a new plan to strengthen action across our five country , include a range of action back by an end - to - end approach to tackle migrant smuggling network , from the french coast through to source and transit country , include Vietnam and central Africa . this include strong enforcement capability through Europol , target the illicit finance model of migrant smuggling network , take down social medium advertising , and co - ordinate preventive communication to deter people from pay gang to arrange dangerous , irregular journey . we also discuss at the Calais group the major escalation of enforcement activity we be undertake here in the UK . immigration and asylum rule need to be respect and enforce , and for too long they have not be . over the summer we move 1 , 000 more staff into return and enforcement activity , which have already lead to nearly 10 , 000 return since the election , with enforce return up by 19 % and voluntary return by 14 % . also during the summer , enforcement officer complete more than 3 , 000 visit to employer and more than 2 , 000 arrest , a substantial increase on the figure in the previous year . we discuss the need to scale up all these operation drastically over the next 12 month , to ensure that word turn into decisive action against the gang . yesterday , as part of these effort , we publish a mission statement for the Border Security Command , set out the approach that we be adopt to increase enforcement capacity in the UK and Europe , draw on the good intelligence and enforcement practice in the police , the National Crime Agency , Border Force and our intelligence agency . in the year before this government come to office , criminal gang be allow to take hold all along our border , establish a criminal industry profit from misery and exploitation and put life at risk . the terrible consequence of this phenomenon have be clear for too many year : fatality in the channel as people risk their life make dangerous journey , border security undermine and public trust in the immigration system erode , while criminal gang make million in profit . they can not be allow to get away with it . in place of the failure of the past , this Government have a serious and sensible plan to strengthen our border security and fix our broken asylum system — a plan that be base on grip , not gimmick , and on serious international partnership . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for the timely sight of her statement , and I thank she for her comment on Syria . we certainly support the effort of this government and other around the world to secure a transition to a stable government in Syria that can ensure the return of peace . we also support the suspension of asylum processing ; I be glad that the Government make that decision a few hour after I call for it yesterday . do the Home Secretary agree that , give that most if not all the asylum claim be predicate on the threat pose to the individual by former President Assad , now that that threat have go and the basis for the asylum claim have therefore go , it would be reasonable to ask Syrians who be claim or have recently be grant asylum on that basis to return once they be safe ? early today , the Leader of the Opposition ask the Prime Minister if he would ensure that no former UK resident who be in Syria and who support the murderous Daesh regime that kill and rape innocent woman and child , persecute minority and severely persecute its opponent return to the UK . in government , the Conservatives ensure that those people do not return — the Shamima Begum case be an example — so will the Home Secretary take similarly robust action to ensure that people who support Daesh do not return to the United Kingdom ? I think the House would appreciate such an assurance . let I now turn to the question of small boat and border security . the Home Secretary assert , I must say rather boldly , that her approach be " deliver result " , but I be afraid the fact do not bear that out . let we have a look at the result that be actually be deliver . in the 150 day since the election , more than 20 , 000 people dangerously and illegally cross the english channel , 18 % more than do so in the same 150 day in the previous year . I do not call an 18 % year - on - year increase " deliver result " ; that be a failure . why be these figure up year on year ? the National Crime Agency tell we that we need a deterrent but that law enforcement alone would not be enough , yet the Government cancel the Rwanda deterrent before it have even start . the first flight be due to take off on 24 July , and they cancel it before it even take off . of course we welcome the law enforcement that continue the work do by the last government , but accord to the NCA that alone will not be enough , so we need a deterrent . when will the Home Secretary introduce one ? in the spirit of examine the right hon . Lady ' s claim that she be deliver result , let we look at the Government ' s record on asylum hotel . in their manifesto , they promise to close down and end the use of asylum hotel . accord to figure that we obtain recently , in the three month follow the election , far from reduce asylum hotel use they increase it , by 6 , 066 people . in place such as Peterborough and Altrincham , which be now represent by Labour MPs , asylum hotel be open up in express contradiction of their own manifesto commitment . let I say a word about removal . it be welcome that overall removal have go up , continue the trend under the previous Government , although I observe that almost all those removal be to european and north american country . the Home Secretary do not break out the number on small boat return , and I wonder why that be . I have look into the figure , and it turn out that in the three month after the election , less than 5 % of people cross by small boat be return . More than that , the number of people return , have cross by small boat , in the three month after the election be , in fact , low than the number return in the three month prior to it . so the number of people return after cross by small boat have go down under this Government . the Home Secretary mention criminal gang , and I be glad that the work start under the last government , include by my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) , be be continue . that include the international co - operation that he pursue both as Foreign Secretary and as Home Secretary . but I ask the Home Secretary this : why , in opposition , do she vote against life sentence for people smuggler ? we hear a bit about the Calais group ' s discussion yesterday . of course , co - operation be important — we , too , co - operate when in government — but I wonder whether the Home Secretary have the chance to ask she french opposite number one or two question . first , will the french accept return of people cross the channel ? that would provide a very powerful deterrent . as she will know , the post - EU exit documentation — the political declaration — expressly allow individual member state to engage in bilateral arrangement on border . do she raise that with her french counterpart , and what do they say ? secondly , be the Home Secretary able to ask her french counterpart whether France will intercept small boat close to the french shore , as the Belgians safely do ? in Belgium , it have result in a 93 % reduction in crossing . if the French would do the same and intercept near the shore , it would have a dramatic effect . the Home Secretary say that she be deliver result , but these be the result : crossing be up by 18 % , asylum hotel place be up by 6 , 066 and small boat return be down under the new Government . she be deliver result — I be afraid they be bad . I gently point out to the shadow Home Secretary that his party leave we with the high ever level of small boat crossing in the first half of a year — the high level on record . if we have carry on with small boat crossing at the same level as in the first half of the year , when he be in the Home Office , we would have have to deal with thousand more arrival over the last few month . when he be the Immigration Minister , small boat crossing increase about tenfold because he let criminal gang take hold along the channel . they build an entire criminal industry on his watch that he do nothing to stop , which be why we now have to deal with those criminal gang . on return , I gently point out to the shadow Home Secretary that by the time the Conservatives leave office , return be down by more than a quarter compare with under the last Labour Government because of the Conservatives ' continue failure to even get the system work . that be why we have put substantial additional resource into return and into make sure that the rule be enforce , which they simply have not be for far too long . on the asylum backlog , perhaps the shadow Home Secretary will take responsibility for the total crashing of the asylum system in the last few month before the general election , when the Conservative party and the Home Office of which he be a part end up cut asylum decision by more than 70 % compare with the beginning of the year . that shocking dereliction of duty mean that we have have to deal with the increase backlog that his party leave behind over the summer , and we be get it back under control . there be some important issue on asylum decision involve Syrians . let we be clear : many claim for asylum relate to the Assad regime , which be clearly not in place now . it would therefore not be appropriate to grant asylum decision on those case in the current circumstance . we need to monitor the evolve situation so that we can get new country guidance in place and take those decision , but we will do that in a sensible and serious way , which be about get the asylum and immigration system back under control . by contrast , the shadow Home Secretary and the conservative party seem simply to want to go back to the Rwanda scheme . once again , I point out to they that it cost the taxpayer £ 700 million and send just four volunteer to Kigali — the most shocking waste of public money , over two year , on a fail scheme . all they deliver be gimmick , instead of ever get a grip , and all the shadow Home Secretary want to do be turn the clock back to failure again . it be so refreshing to have a Home Secretary who be actually target those who exploit refugee . I understand what she say about the evolve situation in Syria , and I welcome what she have just say about new country guidance . may I press she a little bit more , though ? she will understand and recognise that the syrian community in this country , which many of we have be proud to welcome and support , be unsettled . there be 6 , 500 claim in process . when do she expect to have a refresh assessment ? we know that the situation in Syria be very uncertain at the moment . can she please give our syrian community some comfort about the direction of travel ? we be obviously review the situation as swiftly as possible . we have withdraw the previous Syria country guidance , because it would not have be appropriate to take decision on that basis , and we be monitor the situation closely to look at how and when new country guidance can be draw up . my hon . friend will understand that there be considerable uncertainty about what be happen in Syria . we have welcome the removal of the Assad regime . however , much be still unknown about what will happen in Syria next , which be why we have to be serious about this matter and monitor the situation closely . other country be do the same . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement , and for advance sight of it . on Syria , this be a fast - move situation , and it be absolutely right that the temporary pause on decision on syrian asylum claim be keep under constant review . the UK should be do all it can to help secure an orderly transition of power in Syria in accordance with international law , and the Government should move to offer asylum seeker and other certainty about their claim as soon as possible . we welcome the Government ' s attempt to tackle people smuggle gang , who send vulnerable people on perilous journey across the channel . we also appreciate their work closely with our european neighbour on this issue , instead of blame they , as the previous Conservative Government do all too often . do the Home Secretary agree that in addition to bilateral agreement with state and the Calais group , such as the one she sign yesterday , we need to work even more closely with inter - state agency such as Europol , which she mention , and Eurojust to restore the UK police ' s real - time access to the EU - wide datum share system that lead to the identifying and arrest of criminal ? shamefully , that co - operation and access be lose under the Conservatives . we should not forget how we end up in this mess . the asylum backlog balloon thank to the last Conservative Government , and thousand of people be currently wait for their claim to be process . can the Home Secretary update the House on what progress she and colleague be make in tackle the backlog ? will she commit to establish a dedicated unit to improve the speed and quality of asylum decision making , and introduce a service standard of three month for all but the most complex asylum claim to be process ? many of the people we be talk about be incredibly vulnerable ; they be flee war , persecution and famine . do the Home Secretary agree that we have to tackle this problem at source , and what conversation have she have with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office about boost international development spending and co - operation to tackle the root cause of the numerous refugee crisis ? the hon . member raise asylum claim from Syria . this be something we discuss in the Calais group , and all five country be take the same approach of recognise that we can not currently take decision . we clearly want to be able to do so as swiftly as possible , but we need to monitor the situation in Syria in the meantime . the hon . Member raise the importance of other partnership work , include with Europol and Eurojust , and I agree with she on the importance of that . one of the thing we agree , first with Germany and then as part of the Calais group discussion at which Europol be also present , be that we be keen either to establish a new Europol taskforce or to expand one of the exist taskforce to look at the end - to - end smuggler route and its supply chain , and particularly to work with the kurdish authority and the iraqi Government on the end - to - end route involve the iraqi kurdish criminal smuggler gang . all those involve , include the Iraqi Government , be keen to work with we on that , but we need that Europol taskforce in place in order to be able to do that . on asylum decision making , we be increase the caseworker in post and we have substantially increase the pace of decision . decision making have plummet by about 70 % just before the election , but we now have the extra caseworker in place and we have get decision back up to where they be . that allow we to clear the backlog on initial decision . finally , I agree with the hon . member that we need to continue to work on the source issue , and we be work closely with the Foreign Office on that . I spend 15 year work on migration before I come into this House , include three year as the home affair attach é in Paris , where I see at first hand how the kind of instrument and datum share the Home Secretary be describe can make a concrete difference in the fight against immigration crime . I also see that , as the previous Government pull the UK out of these instrument , it make our job as official hard . I could not welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement more . immigration be an international phenomenon and , by definition , tackle immigration crime require international co - operation . can she tell we a bit more about the step she have take to build the relationship with these key european ally ? will she also commit to keep her foot to the floor on this issue ? in my experience , these relationship can so easily be cut , and but to bear fruit they take time and political will . my hon . friend have considerable experience in these issue , and I thank he for all his work on this . he be right to say that , with something as basic as the right kind of information and intelligence sharing , if the system be remove and no new system be put in place , basic operational action simply do not happen , whether they involve go after the criminal gang or prevent dangerous boat crossing and criminal activity . this be as basic as make sure that we now have much strong system , include use the Europol secure information exchange network application — siena — system , so that when the german police get information from the National Crime Agency , it be in a form that they can swiftly use to pursue investigation and prosecution . my hon . friend be right . we have to make sure that the detail work , which have often not be take seriously for far too long . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s commitment to maintain the relationship with the Calais group interior Ministers that I be develop when I be in her role , and to build on the UK Frontex agreement that I sign with Commissioner Johansson in February of this year . however , I want she to explain this to the House : if the role of the Border Security Command be so clear , if the division of labour between it and the small boat operational command be so clear , and if this issue be so pressing , why have it take five month to give they a mission ? I recognise the point that the former Home Secretary have make . to be fair to he , he have to do a lot of work to try to repair the relationship with the Calais group and with some of the european partner , after some of his predecessor have be rather more careless , shall we say , and rather more destructive in that relationship . but we now have these further agreement in place , and they be crucial , practical arrangement about strengthen law enforcement co - operation to go after the criminal gang . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about the Border Security Command , I know this have be a bugbear of his , in that he want to see it as the same as the small boat operational command , but they be very different . the small boat operational command be rightly focus on the operation in the channel and it do some excellent work to ensure that we can have order around the system in the channel . the Border Security Command be a much broad programme of work . for example , Martin Hewitt travel with I to Iraq and Kurdistan in order to build those operational relationship so that we can work upstream . he be also part of the Calais group meeting yesterday in order to build those co - operation arrangement as well . we have provide continual update on the work of the Border Security Command and we will continue to do so , but we be already get on with work that I be afraid his party , and he as Home Secretary , never do . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement and the frankly grow - up approach she be take to tackle this problem . do she recognise the fury that be feel by constituent in Hartlepool and elsewhere that , as this system collapse over the past five year , with all the cost associate with that , simultaneously our public service be eviscerate ? do she understand that that be why people in Hartlepool want the system fix , and fix quickly ? my hon . friend make a really important point . what we see be the loss of control of our border security , the loss of control along the channel where the criminal gang be allow to take hold , and the chaos that be allow to develop in the asylum system . at the same time , we see the loss of control of legal migration , where the new policy that be bring in mean that the figure quadruple in the space of just four year . Most people across the country want we to have strong border security and properly control and manage migration and asylum system , so that the system be properly fair and work for this country . we have not have that for too long , and of course that have leave people deeply frustrated and want change . I welcome this joint action plan . it be in our national security interest that it work , and I hope it do so . I be also grateful for the Home Secretary ' s point on syrian asylum seeker , and we look forward to hear more detail as that story unfold . she mention work upstream . may I encourage she to meet the interior Ministers of Algeria , Libya , Morocco , Egypt and Tunisia and also interior Ministers in the Sahel , because she will know that a lot of the migration through the Mediterranean be come out of north Africa , and particularly Libya ? the right hon . Gentleman make a really important point about the work upstream . we do include interior Ministers from north Africa as part of the G7 discussion in Italy in October . that be important and it reflect a lot of the work with north african country which Italy , for example , have be lead . I also agree with he about the importance of the Sahel . some of the issue that we discuss in the Calais group yesterday include look at area of instability and area from which people have be make dangerous journey . we need to engage with those country . we talk about the Sahel and about central Africa , and we talk about Iraq and some of the middle east area . we also talk about Vietnam , from where we see a significant increase in the number of people arrive in small boat at the beginning of the year . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement today and congratulate her team on the work that they be undertake in this very difficult area . back in 2021 , the previous Government commit to £ 62 million as part of an agreement with France that include strengthen law enforcement deployment , more wide - area surveillance technology and vehicle , and enhance physical measure at transport interchange . then in 2023 , they commit to a furth £ 500 million and to continue these agreement . my constituent see these agreement , and the financial commitment be make with our neighbour , and yet , over the past few year , they have just see increase problem with small boat crossing and backlog . what reassurance can my right hon . friend give my constituent that these agreement will make a difference , and — because this go to the heart of fairness — that these funding agreement will bring about the change that people want to see ? People clearly want to see practical change on the ground , which be why the partnership work we have be take forward — not just with France but with Belgium , the Netherlands , Germany and other country — be so important . this have be about the prevention work along the french coast , and the work with the french authority . however , the reality be that we have to be take action long before the boat , the engine , the people and the gang reach the french coast in the first place . that be the fundamental difference between the approach we be now take and the previous Government ' s work . it be about how we work with other european country to tackle the gang before they reach the french coast . that be where we need much strong partnership , and that be where many of our effort have be focus . the application of the 6 , 500 syrian asylum seeker have already be mention , but when the Department look at these claim , will the Home Secretary keep in mind that Syria ' s new leader be a committed jihadist who have voice support for the 9 / 11 attack ? there be , therefore , very serious question , particularly for woman and minority , and all paused asylum claim should be process with that firmly in mind . in a similar vein , although I fully support the increase effort to shut down illegal and dangerous trafficking route , it be important that we have safe asylum route for those who be still at significant risk . the hon . Gentleman make an important point about the continue instability . there be a lot that we simply do not know about how event will play out in Syria . those who have take over , and who be involve in the initial overthrow of the Assad regime , initially say they would pursue an approach support minority within Syria , but the development we have see in recent day raise question about that . we have also see huge instability , with various organisation and group operate across the country . that be why we need to monitor this closely . I think everybody want to see great stability . we have also see the initial sign of people want to return from Turkey to Syria , for example , in the first few day , but the situation be very unstable , which be why we need to approach this with care and with detailed monitoring of what be happen . the Conservatives should be absolutely ashamed of their asylum and immigration policy , of their inactivity and of the complete mess in which they leave Britain and our border . [ interruption . ] the anger and frustration they be show be share by my constituent in Portsmouth North on the small boat arrival — their frustration continue to fill my inboxe . when the Home Secretary come to power , she promise a relentless focus on these boat . we have already hear today about co - operation with other country on raid , arrest , seizure and strong enforcement . will she assure my constituent in Portsmouth North that this be not a gimmick and that the focus will continue through the winter ? my hon . friend be right that the only way to deal with this issue be not through gimmick — we have see those fail time and again — or through the kind of posturing that the conservative party continue with . it will be deal with only through partnership , hard work and graft . we have set up the Border Security Command , put in place new agreement with country not only in Europe but beyond , such as Iraq , and strengthen our law enforcement capability — £ 150 million be go into the Border Security Command over the next two year . we be also get on with return and enforcement , which substantially increase this summer as a result of the action we have take to get they back on track after the system ' s previous failing . People be feed up with gimmick , and we need to take a serious approach to get a grip on this issue . the Home Secretary have not answer very many question today , so can she answer this very clear question : which metric should we use , and by which date , to allow we to judge whether the Government have succeed in smash the gang ? I think everyone will be clear that no one should be make these dangerous boat crossing that undermine our border security and put life at risk . we need to pursue the criminal gang network that spread across Europe and beyond , which be why we welcome last week ' s arrest in Germany as a result of the French - lead operation support by the National Crime Agency . we will continue to support and accelerate this work so that we can take strong action against the criminal gang . this week have see the result of the Home Secretary ' s work , which have lead to the agreement with Germany . it be hard work and grip that get result . it be incredible that , under german law , the stockpiling of the boat and engine use to cross the channel be not prohibit . can the Home Secretary assure we now that this agreement will lead to a path to close this loophole and disrupt the work of the small boat gang ? my hon . friend be right that this be a practical issue . to disrupt the criminal gang operate along the french coast , we need to disrupt their supply chain and to be able to go after they wherever they operate . one of the most basic issue , on which the previous Government take no action at all , be the fact these flimsy and incredibly dangerous boat be be ship across Europe , often be store in german warehouse . however , the legal framework in Germany make it very hard for the german police and prosecutor to take action against those smuggling gang . the basic thing we have do be to reach agreement with Germany that it will strengthen its law to make it clear that store these boat facilitate dangerous and illegal boat crossing out of the EU and into the UK , which be a crime . strengthen the law in that way help we to take action against the criminal gang , but the previous Government just never choose to do it . it require diplomacy , hard work and share commitment , and that be what we have show . we all welcome the fall of Assad and look forward to he , and his accomplice , be drag before the criminal court to face justice for crime against humanity . however , the Home Secretary will know that the current situation in Syria be very complex , with a number of proscribe organisation involve . we understand that the Government be consider de - list some of these organisation . at the same time , we be hear that money be send to Syria , to help and assist the Syrians , could fall into the hand of these proscribe organisation . what action will the Home Secretary take to make sure that do not happen ? as this be a move situation , will she undertake to update the House on any move to de - proscribe these organisation ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important issue . as he will know , we do not routinely comment on either proscription or de - proscription , or on any of those process , but I make it clear that proscription decision be take with care , base on evidence over time . they be not rush or base on inadequate evidence . these be always important issue , but the most important thing be the safety and national security of the UK , and any decision we take will always be take in that light . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement and all the action her Department be take to tackle migrant smuggling gang and to reduce the asylum backlog . frankly , I be quite surprised by the reaction I have hear from Conservative Members because , either through inaction or through incompetence , the last Government leave we with an inheritance of 400 asylum hotel , at a cost to the taxpayer of £ 9 million a day . they do not seem very bothered about target then . constituent in Bournemouth West and across the country be rightly furious about this . do my right hon . friend agree that , if Conservative Members be really serious about tackle illegal migration , they would take responsibility for their legacy and welcome our measure , rather than complain about they ? my hon . friend be right . we inherit a situation where the Conservatives let the entire system get way out of control . they let criminal gang take hold along the channel and leave we with total chaos in the asylum system and extortionate cost , as she rightly point out , with nearly £ 9 million a day be spend this time last year on asylum hotel . the result of our action since the election to get asylum decision making , which they have freeze , go and to get the system work again be already save hundred of million of pound for the taxpayer , which Conservative Members be happy to spend rather than get a grip of the system . I be pleased to hear from the Home Secretary that she be make progress with our neighbouring country in Europe in stop what I now call a national emergency . as she probably know , however , that be only a third of the issue . another be that boat crossing have increase . will she consider securely detain the people who arrive here ? if we be to solve the problem , we have to remove the incentive to come to Britain . the question I be ask be uncover quite how much the cost of those illegal migrant be to the country , and this be now , as I say , a matter of national emergency . the third part of the equation be the illegal migrant who be here . I have a case in my constituency of Great Yarmouth only this week , where one Alius Ambulta be convict of drug dealing — a 17th offence that receive a very light sentence . will the Home Secretary commit to deport those illegal migrant here who be damage the interest of the british electorate ? we need to clear the backlog and the chaos in the asylum system that we have inherit . there be already a detention system as part of both the immigration and asylum system . however , the core issue over a long period of time have be around the lack of proper enforcement and a proper system to ensure that the rule in both the asylum and the immigration system be properly respect and enforce . we have see return , for example , drop substantially compare with under the last Labour Government . we have put additional staff into the return and enforcement system , but also make sure those return increase . that be why we have see nearly 10 , 000 return since the general election and a significant increase in return of both foreign national offender and fail asylum case to make sure the system be properly respect . when I be elect to Parliament , I promise my constituent in Bassetlaw that this Government would have a relentless focus on stop the boat . however , I want to clarify this important point : when this Government come to office , the number of small boat arrival for 2024 be run at around 700 high than the previous record year of 2022 . will the Home Secretary confirm that the number of arrival since the Government come to office be 11 , 000 low than in that equivalent period in 2022 , when the conservative party be in charge and when the Rwanda deal be in place ? my hon . friend be right that the previous record year be 2022 and that in the first half of this year , when the previous Government be still in office , the arrival be high for that season — we all know that arrival be affect by the season — than they be in 2022 . since the election , those arrival have be significantly low than they be in 2022 , and have they continue at the record - high level that the previous Government leave we with , we would have have thousand more arrival over the course of this year than we have , in fact , see . that be no comfort when life be still be lose and when criminal gang still take hold . however , it be important to recognise that we have not continue with the record - high level we inherit from the previous Government . we should have a comprehensive programme across the Government and across the whole country to make sure we can tackle those dangerous gang . until small boat be either stop on french shore or intercept in french water , some will clearly continue to get through . if , in the next few week , identify individual from Syria , whether they be Assad ' s torturer or release islamist fanatic , manage to come to Britain , what will be do to they ? will they be detain or will they be allow to walk free ? the right hon . Member will know that the Home Office have the power to deny entry to those who be not conducive to the public good . those be important power that we continue to support . he will know that we also have other security power and measure that we can use where there be individual who pose a threat to the safety of the UK and we will continue to take those extremely seriously . while the conservative party waste £ 700 million of taxpayer money on an unworkable gimmick , this Government be roll up our sleeve and put in place the agreement that we need to tackle the gang . that be the change that the british public vote for in July and that be the change we be deliver . what message do my right hon . friend believe the new agreement send to the vile people smuggler put life at risk in the channel ? what message do that send to those criminal ? my hon . Friend ask an important question . the criminal gang operate across border and , frankly , they have be able to get away with it because of lack of co - ordination between law enforcement across border and between government across border . that be what we have be work to change since the election and why we have in place not just the Calais group agreement and the agreement on the joint action plan with Germany , but the progress we make at the G7 and the discussion , just after the election , at the European Political Community meeting . we need that collaboration because the message have to be extremely clear to the criminal gang : there will be no place to hide . they can not just hide across border , because government and law enforcement will work together to go after they . this be a multiheaded hydra of a problem ; there be no doubt about that . one of the way in which we could begin to tackle it be by use the proper language . can we please stop talk about irregular arrival and irregular journey ? that sound like a coach tour that have take a wrong turn . it be illegal immigration that we be deal with here . we have hear much about international co - operation and that , obviously , be critical . will the Home Secretary undertake to strike a series of agreement with a range of country to ensure that people can be return to those country should they be deem safe ? we have be clear that we need to reduce both legal and illegal migration because we have see significant increase in both over the past five year . that be why we be set out the policy that we have be introduce since the election . the hon . Gentleman be right to talk about the multiple different aspect and why we need to take action comprehensively , across the board . that also mean that the response have to be across the board and have to include not just the prevention work and go after the criminal gang , but increase return . it be possible to do that through new agreement ; it be also possible to do that , frankly , by just make the exist system work considerably well . that be what we have be do throughout the summer and we have already see a significant increase in return , with nearly 10 , 000 people who do not have the right to be in the UK return . for the final question , I call Jim Shannon . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement today . we all agree in this House and across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland that the issue of immigration need to be realistically prevent . to give the right hon . Lady credit , she have show that determination and commitment through the statement today and we look forward to see the action on the ground . let I gently take the Secretary of State on another journey , across to Northern Ireland . what discussion have take place with the Republic of Ireland to secure the border with Northern Ireland ? the Irish Government have implement check for their security . I believe that the time have come for the Government here to do likewise , and to prevent immigration through the back door . the hon . member will be aware that we have long have a common travel area across the UK and Ireland , which of course have mean close security co - operation and information - sharing in recognition of that unique situation . that common travel area will continue , and we will also continue to work with the Irish Government to ensure that the system work effectively . the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland also take these matter seriously . puberty - suppress Hormones with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement on puberty blocker . at the outset , I wish to make clear the principle that drive the Government ' s approach to this issue . first , child ' s healthcare must always be lead by evidence . medicine prescribe to young people should always be prove to be safe and effective . secondly , evidence - lead , effective and safe healthcare must be provide to all who need it , when they need it . thirdly , this Government believe in the dignity , worth and equality of every citizen , and recognise that trans people too often feel unsafe , unrecognised and unheard , and that must change . none of these simple ambition have be achieve in recent year . medicine have be provide with insufficient evidence , and young people have be leave to go without the support and care that they need . this Government be determined to change that . the Cass review make it clear that there be not enough evidence about the long - term effect of use puberty blocker to treat gender incongruence to know whether they be safe or beneficial . that evidence should have be establish before they be ever prescribe for that purpose . it be a scandal that medicine be give to vulnerable young child , without proof that it be safe or effective , or that it have go through the rigorous safeguard of a clinical trial . follow the Cass review , the NHS cease the routine use of puberty blocker to treat gender incongruence in child . in May , the previous Government issue an emergency order to extend these restriction to the private sector . in Opposition , my party and I , as shadow Health and Social Care Secretary , support those decision . since come into office , I have renew this order twice , continue restriction until the end of this year . that be do jointly with the Health Minister in Northern Ireland , and I update the House via a write statement . while the temporary ban be in place , I ask the Commission on Human Medicines to look at the current environment for prescribe puberty blocker , and we launch a target consultation . the commission be an independent body , make up of lead clinician and epidemiologist , that advise on medicine safety . it take evidence directly from clinical expert , consultant paediatric endocrinologist and patient representative , include representative of trans people , young people and their family . after thoroughly examine all the available evidence , it have conclude that prescribe puberty blocker to child for the purpose of treat gender dysphoria , in the current prescribing environment , represent " an unacceptable safety risk " . of particular concern to the commission be whether these child and their family be provide with enough time and information to give their full and informed consent . the commission find that child have receive prescription after fill out online questionnaire and have one brief Zoom call with prescriber from outside the UK . consequently , the commission have recommend that the Government extend the ban order indefinitely , until a safe prescribing environment can be establish for these medicine . on the basis of those finding , I be act on the commission ' s advice and put in place an indefinite order to restrict the sale or supply of puberty blocker to under - 18 through a prescription issue by either a private UK prescriber , or a prescriber register outside the UK . this be on the advice of expert clinician , the independent Commission on Human Medicines — advice base on the well available evidence — and follow the cautionary and careful approach recommend by Dr Cass . the legislation will be update today , and will be review in 2027 , when there will be an update assessment of the safety of the prescribe environment for these medicine . we be work to grow a thorough evidence base for puberty blocker . the National Institute for Health and Care Research be work closely with NHS England to establish a clinical trial on puberty - supressing hormone . the NIHR be now contract the team that will deliver the study and be work tirelessly towards recruit the first patient by spring . the trial be the first of its kind the world over . it will help we well understand the effect of puberty - suppress hormone on young people , provide the robust evidence require . the Cass review also make clear recommendation to the Government and NHS England on improve healthcare service for child with gender dysphoria . I will now provide an update on the progress make . NHS England have publish its implementation plan , which will transform its service . it have also publish a new service specification , to ensure that child and young people experience gender incongruence have an appointment with a paediatrician or mental health professional before be refer to specialist service . Dr Cass be clear on the need for the model of care to change and take account of child and young people ' s holistic need . since April , NHS England have open three new gender identity service — in the north - west , in London and in Bristol — with a fourth expect in the east of England by the spring . that put we on track to open service in every region by 2026 . these service offer a fundamentally different clinical model . they bring together clinical expert in paediatric , neurodiversity and mental health , so that care can be tailor to patient ' need . at first , the new service be prioritise patient register with the old Gender Identity Development Service , but I be delighted to report that the north - west and Bristol service be now take patient off the general waiting list . on the waiting list , Dr Cass ' s review paint a picture of a service unable to cope with demand . child and young people face unacceptably long wait for care , with some child pass into adulthood before their first appointment , leave they face a dangerous cliff edge . I be pleased to tell the House that NHS England be work with potential partner organisation to explore establish a much - need follow through service for 17 to 25 - year - old , as Dr Cass recommend . young people ' s distress or need do not vanish when they turn 18 , and neither should their healthcare . we do not yet know the risk of stop pubertal hormone at this critical life stage . that be the basis on which I be make decision . I be tread cautiously in this area because the safety of child must come first . there be some who have call on the Government not to go ahead with the clinical trial recommend by Dr Cass . other on the opposite side of the debate want the Government to ignore the recommendation of the independent expert Commission on Human Medicines . we be take a different approach . the decision that we take will always be base on the evidence and the advice of clinician , not on politic or political pressure . finally , there be many young people in this country who be desperately worried and frighten by the toxicity of this debate . this have not be help by some highly irresponsible public statement , which threaten to put vulnerable young people at risk . in the past few month , I have meet young trans people , who either have be , may be , or will be affect by the decision that I and my predecessor have take . I have listen to their concern , fear and anxiety , and I want to talk directly to they . I know it be not easy be a trans kid in our country today . the trans community be at the wrong end of all the statistic for mental ill health , self - harm and suicide . I can not pretend to know what that be like , but I do know what it be like to feel that you have to bury a secret about yourself , to be afraid of who you be , to be bully for it , and then to have the liberating experience of come out . I know it will not feel like it , base on the decision that I be take today , but I really do care about this , and so do this Government . I be determined to improve the quality of care and access to healthcare for all tran people . I be convinced that the full implementation of the Cass review will deliver material improvement in the wellbeing , safety and dignity of trans people of all age , and the Government will work with they to help they live freely , equally and with the dignity that everyone in our country deserve . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement , and for his courtesy in come to the House to make an oral statement , which give hon . member the opportunity to ask he question . when the Secretary of State be wrong , we will challenge he robustly and hold he to account , but when he be right , we will support he . that be responsible opposition . in what he set out today , he be right , and he have my support for what he be do . protect child be one of the most important priority that a Health Secretary can have . my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , work tirelessly to do just that . she set out that it be her priority to protect child and young people from risk to their safety from the prescription of puberty blocker , give the lack of an evidence base . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s continue the work start under the previous Government , and I welcome his support at the time and all that he have do since , include in his statement on 4 September . I associate myself with the three principle that he enunciate when he open his statement . with increase number of young people question their gender identity , NHS England , with the support of previous Conservative Health Secretaries Matt Hancock and Sir Sajid Javid , commission Dr Hilary Cass to examine the state of service for child question their gender . that historic review cut through the noise and ideology to lay bare the clear fact , so that we as policymaker can seek to make decision base on evidence , safety and biological reality , and create a service that well serve the need of child , as the Secretary of State set out . in the review , Dr Cass make it clear that not enough be know about the lifelong impact of use puberty blocker on young mind and body to be sure that they be safe , and that the robust evidence base be simply not there . in March , NHS England make the landmark decision to end the routine prescription to child of puberty blocker for gender dysphoria . with the support of the then Government , it announce that it be stop child under 18 from be see by adult gender service with immediate effect . as one of the final act of the previous Government , my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle use emergency power under section 62 of the Medicines Act 1968 to extend the ban to private clinic sell puberty blocker to young people question their gender . it be the right thing to do , and I agree with and pay tribute to she , as I do to the Secretary of State for what he have subsequently do . the safety and wellbeing of child and young people must come above any other concern . I welcome the fact that the Secretary of State renew the order ; his say that he will make the ban indefinite , give the absence at present of an evidence base ; and his seek to well understand and build that evidence base . I have a few question that I hope the Secretary of State can offer clarification on in a constructive spirit . I hope — I think he allude to this — that he will confirm that he intend to implement the Cass review ' s recommendation in full . of course , support must be available to child and young people who be question their gender identity , and that support must be holistic , multidisciplinary and evidence - lead . the Tavistock clinic close early this year , and as he set out , three new regional NHS child and young people ' s gender service have open to provide well , tailor gender service for child and young people — again , that be base on recommendation in the Cass review . can the Secretary of State provide more detail on the delivery of the remain regional centre , and say what order they be due to open in , so that child and family can see what be happen in their region ? again , that be about put the good interest of young people first . can the Secretary of State reassure the House that these measure will be UK - wide and that he be work in tandem with the devolved administration ? will he advise on what progress have be make thus far — I appreciate that it be early day — on further research into patient care and increase that evidence base ? can he update the House on the step take to continue the work of his predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle , when she announce to the House in May the decision to work to close any online loophole to the regulation put in place ? finally , will he commit — I suspect I know the answer to this one — to keep the House update in the month and year ahead on development in this space ? our child and young people deserve healthcare that be compassionate , caring , careful and lead by the evidence . I associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s conclude remark on the need for the debate to be conduct in a respectful and sensitive way , with the need of child and young people at its heart . we will support measure that protect child , and support he in bring forward such measure ; we want to work constructively with the Government to give the next generation access to the right healthcare to meet their need . I look forward to work with he in the month ahead . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for the constructive way in which he have respond to the statement , and for the tone with which he have approach the issue . it be worth everyone bear in mind that every word of statement in this House , and indeed online , be often hang upon by a particularly vulnerable group of child and young people . many of they feel afraid about the environment in which they be grow up , as do their family . establish an environment in which we can discuss issue with their welfare and wellbee at its heart be therefore the right way to approach these issue . as I have say many time before — and I be sure the shadow Secretary of State agree — we need less heat and more light , and we can show leadership together in try to provide that climate . I be absolutely committed to the full implementation of the Cass review . the shadow Secretary of State ask about the implementation of new child and young people ' s service on gender incongruence . as I say , the north - west London and Bristol service be now open . a fourth service be plan in the east of England for spring next year . we want a specialist gender service in every region by 2026 , and of course I will keep he and the House update on that . I be work closely with my counterpart in the devolved government . I particularly welcome the engagement I have have with my counterpart in Northern Ireland and his predecessor , the hon . member for South Antrim ( Robin Swann ) , who be within my line of sight . I appreciate the way we have be able to work together on this and many other issue . the shadow Secretary of State ask about loophole . I will keep the matter under close observation and review . with regard to sanction , penalty and enforcement , it be worth point out that breach of the order be a criminal offence under the Medicines Act 1968 . it be a criminal offence to supply these medicine outside the term of the order . that mean pharmacist who dispense medicine against prescription that be not valid may be liable to criminal prosecution . it be a criminal offence to possess the medicine where the individual have responsible cause to know the medicine have be sell or supply in breach of the term of the order . there be fine and penalty associate with that , include case - by - case and regulatory enforcement by the General Pharmaceutical Council . we have approach the matter in an evidence - base and consider way , and with the welfare and interest of child and young people at the heart of our decision making . I urge everyone else involve in the provision of health and care to do the same . I thank the Health Secretary for his statement and for the manner in which he continue to handle this important issue . I welcome the fact that the Government be follow clinical evidence , particularly in relation to child and young people , whose wellbeing and protection be paramount — that be the right approach . give that the Cass review find insufficient evidence on whether puberty blocker be safe , and highlight their potential harm , there be understandably concern about the risk of trialle they . can the Secretary of State reassure I that the upcoming trial will have robust safeguard , and will he continue to be lead by the wellbeing and safety of child ? I can certainly give my hon . friend that assurance . well - quality evidence be critical if the NHS be to provide reliable and transparent information and advice to support child and young people , and their parent and carer , in make potentially life - change decision . that be why we support the setting up of the study into the potential benefit and harm of puberty - supressing hormone as a treatment option . the study team ' s application for funding be go through all the usual review and approval stage ahead of set - up — include peer review , consideration by the National Institute for Health and Care Research funding committee , and ethical approval process . we want the trial to begin recruit participant in spring 2025 . I be confident in the robust , appropriate and ethical way in which the trial be be establish . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State not only for the content of his statement , but for its tone and his recognition of the importance of such a tone in this place . for too long , child and young people who be struggle with their gender identity have be badly let down by low standard of care , exceptionally long waiting list and an increasingly toxic public debate . before GIDS close , more than 5 , 000 young people be stick on the list for an appointment and wait , on average , almost three year for their first appointment . for teenager go through what be often an incredibly difficult experience , three year must feel like an eternity , so change be desperately need . the Liberal Democrats have long push to ensure that child and young people can access the high - quality healthcare that they deserve . we welcome the NHS move to create multiple new regional centre , but those centre must get up and run as quickly as possible . will the Secretary of State outline what step the Government be take to ensure that happen in every region , and will he give a timetable for that work ? tackle waiting list and improve access to care must be priority . I understand why today ' s news be cause fear and anxiety for some young trans people and their family , who have be badly let down for so many year — not least those I have meet in my constituency , who have highlight the catastrophic mental health impact of the situation . it be crucial that these sort of decision be make by expert clinician base on the good possible evidence . will the Secretary of State publish all the evidence behind his decision , include the result of the consultation , to give those family confidence that this be the right move for they ? we welcome the announcement of a clinical trial . we need the NHS to build up the evidence base as quickly as possible , and the Government to provide certainty that they will follow evidence and expert advice on behalf of those child . I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson for her approach to this matter . I can certainly respond to her question . we want all those regional centre to be up and run by 2026 , and we be work with NHS England to achieve that outcome . the hon . Lady mention the waiting list . to give people a sense of the challenge , the late figure show that 6 , 237 child and young people be on waiting list for gender service , so we have see growth in the waiting list in the time that she mention . as with all NHS waiting list , I want to see those number fall . it be particularly important to note , in the context of child and young people ' s service — be they gender identity or other paediatric service — that a wait of many year can represent a school lifetime . I know that for that group of child and young people , time really do feel of the essence , so we owe it to they to get the waiting list down fast . we be also work to implement the recommendation on the follow - through service for 17 to 25 - year - old . I know that there be some anxiety about that issue — some people have interpret it as an extension of child ' s service up to the age of 25 , but that be not what we intend . it be about a transitional service from child ' s to adult service , which I think will lead to well care . finally , in the context of a statement that focus on puberty - suppress hormone , it be worth point out that they be not the only treatment for child and young people in this area . I think there be a danger that the focus on that treatment — because of an inevitable but necessary political process — mean that it be hold up as the gold standard , so some child and young people and their family feel that if they miss out on it , they be miss out on all treatment . that be not the case . indeed , for many trans people of all age in our country , puberty blocker have never be consider an appropriate intervention . we must see all the treatment option in the round , which be why I support the holistic approach to support child and young people with gender incongruence , as Dr Cass outline in her excellent report . I thank the Secretary of State for address the point in my letter to he , particularly on the holistic approach to the health of trans young people . in his statement , he say that the order would " restrict the sale or supply of puberty blocker " to under - 18 through private prescription . can he assure I that that will apply to all under - 18 , not just those with gender dysphoria ? otherwise , it will be use as an attack on trans young people , as he well know . be the order universal rather than target trans young people in particular ? the order relate to the use of puberty blocker by that particular group of patient for that particular purpose , where the evidence base be not sound and for which the Commission on Human Medicines have describe the current prescribing environment as represent an " unacceptable safety risk . " puberty blocker be safe and prove for use among child and young people for other condition , include precocious puberty . where we lack a sound evidence base and a safe prescribing environment , and where that medicine represent an unacceptable safety risk , be in relation to its use for that particular purpose for that particular group of patient . I welcome the statement and commend the Secretary of State for put the safety and wellbeing of child first . the use of puberty blocker to treat gender dysphoria be — I will not mince my word — nothing short of a medical scandal , in my view , so I very much welcome his approach . he say that it be important that young people receive the right care from paediatrician and mental health professional . do he agree that no child should ever be tell by a health professional that they be bear in the wrong body ? it be important , particularly with this group of child and young people , that clinician ask a range of question to identify the nature of a child ' s need , and respond appropriately by provide holistic and evidence - base healthcare . that be the good way of turn around the horrendous statistic on the effect of gender dysphoria on child and young people , and it be how we will achieve well , healthy and happy outcome for that cohort of patient . I write to the Secretary of State this morning , before his statement be announce , to highlight that a Council of Europe report note that gender - affirm hormone therapy for tran minor in the UK be almost impossible to access , and that the total withdrawal of access to healthcare outside of a research trial may breach the " fundamental ethical principle govern research " . the restriction on puberty blocker remove the clinical expertise from medical decision making , which significantly impact on young trans people and their family , and I be hugely disappoint by the content of the statement . will he read that Council of Europe report , and will he agree to meet I , as a UK delegate , to discuss it ? I be certainly happy to continue meet my hon . friend on this issue . with great respect to the Council of Europe and the author of the report that she mention , I have to take decision about the welfare , wellbeing and safety of child in this country base on clinical evidence . when our own Commission on Human Medicines say that there be an " unacceptable safety risk " and an unsafe prescribing environment , I have to take that seriously . when one of our country ' s lead paediatrician say that there be insufficient evidence about the long - term effect of the use of this particular drug for this particular purpose for this particular cohort of child and young people , I have to take that seriously . I know there be people who will be deeply disappoint by this decision , include many trans people and their family . think about some of the young people I have meet in recent week and month , I have take to heart what they have say , and I know this will be deeply upsetting to they . I do not take that lightly , but to anyone challenge I to do something else , I ask they quite sincerely whether if they be stand in my shoe as the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , look at recommendation from clinician in our country — include the Commission on Human Medicines — say that there be insufficient evidence for the use of medication in child and young people for this purpose and an unacceptable safety risk arise from the current prescribing environment , they would really take a different position . I be extremely worried and fearful about this decision to continue the blanket ban , and I want to ask the Secretary of State about his reliance in the term of reference and reason for this decision on the purpose for which these drug be be prescribe — that is , be tran — when they be safely use by young people for other condition , as he acknowledge . do he understand that this be , at heart , discriminatory ? I do not agree with the hon . member ' s characterisation . a whole range of medicine be prescribe for a whole range of use among a whole range of patient cohort that may well be unsafe , inappropriate or ineffective for use by other patient with other condition . that be a basic fact of medicine and , if I may say so , the hon . member ' s intervention be why we should listen to clinician , not politician . I share the deep disappointment that many young trans people and their family will feel about the Health Secretary ' s decision today . I know that many will be devastate by this news , and I know that they have communicate to the Health Secretary and his Department the huge concern that they have about their wellbeing in the face of these restriction . too many young tran people be already in , or at high risk of , mental health crisis . what consideration have he give to the impact of this decision on their mental health ? very heavy consideration — of all the consideration , it be the one that have weigh most heavily . as I say in my statement , trans people too often find themselves at the wrong end of the statistic on mental ill health , self - harm and suicide . I take those issue very seriously indeed . what I would say to my hon . friend , Members of this House , and campaigner — particularly online actor — be that a number of claim have be make about the datum that be not bear out by the fact . in fact , I ask Professor Louis Appleby , the Government ' s suicide prevention adviser , to examine the evidence for some of the claim make that there have be a large rise in suicide . his paper , publish on 19 July , conclude as follow : " the datum do not support the claim that there have be a large rise in suicide in young gender dysphoria patient at the Tavistock . the way that this issue have be discuss on social medium have be insensitive , distressing and dangerous , and go against guidance on safe reporting of suicide . the claim that have be place in the public domain do not meet basic standard for statistical evidence . there be a need to move away from the perception that puberty - block drug be the main marker of non - judgemental acceptance in this area of health care . we need to ensure high quality datum in which everyone have confidence , as the basis of improved safety " . I would add that it be important that we make sure that these child and young people have access to good - quality mental health support , and I be work with NHS England to make sure that this be the case . this area be one in which all member should tread carefully when engage in debate . I do not think anyone who have listen to the Secretary of State today could be in the slight doubt about the responsibility that he have bear and the personal empathy that he have inject into his handling of this very difficult question . I personally thank he for it . I be tell a long time ago that one should never ask a question in the House to which one do not already know the answer , but I think I will break the rule this time . what about surgical procedure ? one hear about irrevocable step such as so - call top surgery — the removal of healthy breast tissue from young female . where do the law stand on that issue at the current time ? the only thing bad than a Member not know the answer to their own question be the Minister not know the answer . happily , in this case , I can say that surgical intervention for trans people do not apply to child and young people . I welcome the spirit in which the Health Secretary have make today ' s statement and his commitment to improve healthcare for all tran people , but I want to press he a bit on continuity of care . this summer , I have a real struggle work with parent of young trans kid who be support their child in their journey and have access puberty blocker through overseas prescriber . they have do so after much heartfelt indecision , because they think they be support what be good for their child and , frankly , because well healthcare option be not available to they under the previous Government . I welcome the move take to speed up the trial , but can my right hon . friend assure I that while we wait for that trial to be set up , nobody currently receive treatment with puberty blocker — however they may have access they in the past — will face a discontinuity in their care ? any young person in Great Britain and Northern Ireland who have a valid prescription for these medicine in the six month prior to 3 June and 27 August respectively can seek continuation of their prescription from a UK - register clinician . Guidance have be issue to general practitioner set out prescribing scenario . it remain the case that continuation of puberty - supresse hormone can be consider where the GP feel competent to do so , and where confirmation in the form of documentary evidence that treatment have be under way be available . the guidance also make clear that GPs should consider what further support should be offer , include assess whether referral to the child and young people ' s gender service or , indeed , for mental health support be require . I , too , thank the Secretary of State for the empathetic and reassuring approach he have take today , because this have be a very toxic and , in many way , very damaging debate for everyone involve . far to the question about continued care , what reassurance can he give to people who have embark on a course of treatment that they might now fear will be halt , and to the very many young people and their family in this country who be go through a very difficult time ? desperate situation make people do desperate thing . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that the availability of these drug be not drive underground — that they be not make available through mean that none of we would like to see ? as I say , any young person in Great Britain and Northern Ireland who have a valid prescription for these medicine in the six month prior to 3 June and 27 August respectively can seek continuation of their prescription from a UK - register clinician . more broadly , it be my intention to ensure we start bring down those waiting list , to make sure that child and young people and their family receive access to the wide range of support , information , advice and guidance that they need in order to navigate their pathway and to make sure they feel safe , respected and include in discussion about their own healthcare . the Health Secretary be right when he say that young trans man and young tran woman in this country need we all to do well on their behalf , particularly in the debate and how we move forward — there must be more light , not heat . he be also right when he say that time be of the essence . I think we all share his concern that all medicine must be regulate properly and that we should all understand , for every patient group , the risk and benefit of any medication . however , can he give we more clarity , and give those who will be listen to this statement in fear a sense of where this be go ? he have talk about an indefinite ban until 2027 — not a roll ban , but an indefinite ban — and he have talk about recruit participant to a study that might begin its recruitment in 2025 , but he have not say when the review will begin or when we will get the datum that he feel be missing and that Dr Cass identify as need to be provide so that we can move the debate forward . if time be of the essence and puberty be the matter , we need to give these young people a route map forward . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . we be try to proceed at pace with the clinical trial . I share the urgency that she bring to her question . I have have to temper my own urgency with the need to make sure that the clinical trial that be establish be as robust and ethically sound as , if not more robust and ethically sound than , any other clinical trial . the bad thing I could do at this stage , especially when the NIHR and NHS England be work at pace to establish a trial , would be to interfere politically in what must be an independent approach . the plan pathway study , which include the clinical trial component to build the evidence of the relative benefit and harm of puberty - suppress hormone , be in the final stage of the commission process , subject to a robust ethical approval process . the study remain on track to commence recruitment in the spring , and I will issue further update in early 2025 to keep my hon . friend , the House , and young people and their family inform . I be sure the Secretary of State will welcome the Northern Ireland ban as well , make this a UK - wide ban . go through puberty be a biological and natural way for a boy or girl to develop . anything that interfere with this process in such an extreme way be go against the natural process . therefore , I agree with the sentiment about its be a scandal that medicine be be give to vulnerable young people without proof of its be safe or effective . will the Secretary of State therefore outline what support be available for child and young people who have take these drug and bear the scar of these drug ? on the clinical trial , we once again see the NHS be use totally contrary to what it be design for , which be to protect and preserve life . I thank the hon . member for her question . on the case of young people who have be on a gender identity pathway and later regret those intervention , whatever those intervention may have be , they be small in number , but they be address in the Cass review . it be important that we do not lose sight of those young adult and old adult who may well need the support of health service if they feel they be inappropriately place on a gender identity pathway or undertake medical intervention that they have later come to regret . we will keep that and other evidence under close review . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and the sensitive way in which he have approach this issue , because nothing be more important than our child and young people ' s health . a lack of an evidence - base approach may have take we into a space where some child and young people have receive puberty blocker as an appropriate intervention , but other have receive that medication when it be not right for they , so can I ask he or his official to look at how we get ourselves into that space ? there may be lesson for we to learn not just about this issue , but about healthcare more generally . sometimes when we have rush into thing in the past , we have find what appear to be a panacea for an issue , but it have turn out not to be the right thing at all . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . this lie at the heart of the dilemma that have plague clinical leader and political leader , particularly since the scandal at the Tavistock clinic be bring into the public eye . there be many people in our country — young people , and young and old adult — who will say , and some have certainly tell I in my office , that have access to puberty - suppress hormone have be completely life - change and affirm , and have lead to a positive outcome for they . yet we know that the prescription of that medication to this particular group of patient for this particular medical need have not be support by underpin evidence in the way that the use of other drug have be underpin by effective trial and an evidence base . that have be the challenge : people with a live experience say that this have be positive , while none the less — at the Tavistock clinic , in particular — not only puberty blocker but a whole range of medical intervention be deliver with the good of intention , but in way that be inappropriate and clinically unsound . that be the genesis of the Cass review , and it be why I think it be so important that we proceed in an evidence - base way . to do the contrary risk real harm to people and also a lack of trust in the medical profession that will be damaging for our entire country , and particularly for this group of patient . may I thank the Secretary of State for a very nuanced , well think out and genuinely move statement ? he will very rarely hear I praise those on the Labour Front Bench , so he should enjoy it . I thank he for take what be a very difficult stance . what I see be that the Secretary of State have put young people first and have protect young people today . I be very grateful for that , and I would like to offer he my thank . I also thank he for his nuanced approach in help trans people in their transition in adulthood , because this be complicated and it need a nuanced approach . I thank he for understand that , and for his boldness today . I thank the hon . member for her question . in case she worry that she be go soft on the Government — or , bad still , in case I worry that I agree with she — we should just remind each other that even a stop clock be right twice a day . for those watch our proceeding this afternoon , it be true to say that politic in our country have be quite divide on a wide range of issue , certainly in the nine and a half year that I have be in this House . however , that be not to say that , on a wide range issue , we do not have consensus or work together to build it . I actually think that be a good thing in our politic . there be plenty of thing we can disagree about in this House and contest election on , but especially in an area such as this that involve vulnerable child and young people , the more we can try to build consensus and create an environment in our country where these child and young people and their family feel safe , the more we will be do a really good job . far and away the hard part in this process for I personally have be spend time with these child and young people and their parent , many of whom have speak in genuinely heartfelt term about the fear they feel live in our country . some be look to live in other country , and do so quite sincerely . it break my heart , actually , because I want this country to be one where everyone , whatever their background , feel safe , include and respect , and there be much we can do across this House to build that kind of country . I thank the Secretary of State for his recognition of how difficult it will be for many young trans people and their family to hear the news today , and for his comment about the wide environment in which the trans community be threaten every day in the UK . my significant concern about the announcement be that it will lead to more people get drug from unknown source online without prescription , and God know what be actually in some of those drug . I also have significant concern about access for both young and old tran people to the service they need . we know that there be currently a six - year waiting list , and it be estimate that those join the list today , if thing be not improve , will have to wait 15 to 20 year before actually access any specialist service or start any treatment . can the Secretary of State reassure trans people across this country , both young and old , that we be committed to make sure they get the health service they need as quickly as possible ? I can certainly give my hon . friend that assurance . we want all trans people , in fact all people in our country , to receive timely access to safe and effective healthcare . we want to improve service for trans people specifically , because we recognise the extent to which they have be let down . I emphasise that young people who have be in receipt of puberty blocker with a valid prescription for the six month prior to 3 June and 27 August respectively can seek continuation of their prescription . there be risk that would be associate with an interruption of those prescription , which be why we have take that approach . I know that I speak for the Government as a whole in say that whether it be access to healthcare as in my case , access to a wide range of public service , or indeed safety on our street , this Government be commit to improve the life of trans people so that they can live with the freedom , dignity and respect that any of we in our country would expect for ourselves . I very much welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . it be never easy to deliver a policy decision that have so much effect on people , and I admire he for his diligence and his courage . he will be aware of the finding of the Cass report , which find that the change in practice from psychological and social support to drug be base on no good evidence . in the light of medical professional highlight that puberty blocker by definition disrupt a crucial natural phase of human development , do the Secretary of State believe that we must extend the ban from temporary to permanent , not only to protect our child , but to prioritise mental health and the support that they so desperately need ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for what he say . these issue weigh heavily on my conscience . on what he say about the safety and efficacy of puberty blocker , the simple fact be that we just do not know enough . that be why build the evidence base and research be important . I want to ensure that young people with gender incongruence and dysphoria be receive the good quality healthcare to improve their safety , welfare and wellbee as child , and that they live long , healthy and happy life as adult . that be the basis on which we be take decision , and we be approach the issue with care and sensitivity , as I know my counterpart in Northern Ireland also do . today will be a difficult day for trans young people , not because of the Secretary of State ' s statement , but because of how our medium might choose to portray what have be announce in the House . I welcome the remark of the shadow Secretary of State , and I hope that we can take thing forward together . I know that one of my constituent will be upset , but will reflect on this with his mum , who have be support he . he be refer by his GP for gender dysphoria when he be in year 8 . he have still not be see by a specialist , and he be now in his first year do his a - level . he have have to endure go through period , and suffer at school with the embarrassment of that . he decide to stop eat and be diagnose with anorexia because that be the only way that he feel he could stop his period and stop his breast grow . those be the kind of thing that trans young people go through day in , day out . three and a half year later , it be not good enough that he have still not be see by a medical professional . he be in the west midland , which be one of the area where we be not yet announce that specialist service will be extend . I welcome the gravity with which the Secretary of State have deal with this matter . in particular , he respond to I when I ask he to meet trans young people , which he have do . I hope that we can move forward together and improve the mental health of all our young people . we must take this issue seriously and work together , rather than make this into a culture war . my hon . friend demonstrate powerfully why wait of the length that she describe in that case be simply unacceptable and unjustifiable . she also detail the real pain that be be experience by young people who be not be see by the NHS , and not receive the care and support they need . that be why I be determined to improve wait time and quality of care . it be also why those of we in position of influence or power , or those who have access to the microphone or the pulpit , need to think very carefully about the way that we talk about this group of child and young people , and tran people more generally . it be why headline writer and editor in our medium have a responsibility to think carefully about how they exercise their freedom in the medium responsibly — freedom I strongly support — and create a culture where we be not add to the harm of that group of child and young people . that be for the exact reason that my hon . friend describe with that utterly heartbreaking case . I associate myself with the remark of my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) about both the tone and content of the Secretary of State ' s remark . I first raise my concern about the Tavistock clinic back in 2019 , when a number of professional resign because they be so concerned about what be happen with regard to prescribing . he will know that anyone who raise those issue — I think of Kathleen Stock , for example — have be treat very poorly , and with spite , by some of the militant activist in that field . although I entirely recognise the tone that the Secretary of State adopt — he be a thoughtful and sensitive man — I must ask he this . he have be clear that the prescribing practice be inappropriate , that people be not give time to give their full and informed consent , and that it be an unacceptable safety risk . who oversee that ? when be those decision make ? who make they , and how will they be hold to account ? many young life have be severely damage . as the report into the failure of the Tavistock clinic show , a whole range of individual and organisation do not discharge their duty of care appropriately to an extremely vulnerable group of child and young people . I pay tribute to the whistleblower of the Tavistock and Portman who lay their career on the line . they be subject to the bad kind of attempt to silence whistleblower , and in some case to bully they out of the organisation or vilify they . that be not only a disgraceful way to treat good colleague who be raise legitimate concern in the right way , but ironically — I have no doubt that many of the people behave in that way do so with the good of intention towards that vulnerable group of child and young people — they set back the national conversation about that group of child and young people and undermine confidence in gender identity service . that can not be a good thing . I also pay tribute to those journalist who be willing to report on this issue . I pay particular tribute to Hannah Barnes , whose " Newsnight " investigation take some of these issue to a wide audience , and whose journalism on broadcast medium and in print show how we can expose failure , and expose the risk to a wide range of child , young people and adult , in a thoughtful , evidence - base way . finally , the right hon . Gentleman talk about the treatment of other people who have raise concern in a wide range of context in this debate . he mention Kathleen Stock , and there be other , too . I do not think that have be helpful ; in fact , I think it have be actively harmful to have the kind of national conversation we should have more broadly about gender identity and how some woman fear their sex - base right be at risk . if we be able to navigate those issue in a much more thoughtful , consider way , listen to different perspective and experience , I feel confident that , despite all the challenge , as a society we could find a way through that not everyone love , but everyone can live with . we have do that before on same - sex marriage , on sexual orientation and religious freedom , for example . it be possible , if we be willing to listen , to engage in good faith and to not shout down people raise heartfelt concern . perhaps if we engage in the conversation in a much well way , we would find a well way through as a country . while I be deeply disappointed , on behalf of our trans child , by the Secretary of State ' s statement , I thank he for speak directly to those child . I know that they will appreciate his sentiment . Trans young people in Mid Dorset and North Poole already rely increasingly heavily on their gps , their school and CAMHS , with many leave education entirely , do serious harm to themselves and lose their life while on the waiting list . the former director of Tavistock tell I that no data be collect on incident of assist suicide and death of child who be on the waiting list . datum be collect only of child and young people who have already start treatment . as a result , we have no information about the harm that young people and their family be go through in those year lead up to treatment . what assurance can the Secretary of State give I that those already under the care of CAMHS and paediatrician will be treat urgently ? can he update I on progress on how long those already on the list might expect to wait ? will he commit to collect datum from family on the waiting list , so that we can truly understand their experience ? the hon . member point back to the waiting list , which currently have 6 , 237 people on it . I do not think it be too much to expect the NHS to have a relationship with each of those young people and to make sure that they be receive some support and care while they be wait . I have be give assurance that support be offer to young people on the waiting list , and I continue to monitor that like a hawk . I be grateful for representation I receive from across the House from right hon . and hon . member ' casework , and I be happy to pick up individual case . as for the most catastrophic failure of child and young people , I reassure all right hon . and hon . member that all child death , whatever the circumstance — suicide have be mention — undergo a multi - agency review by a child death overview panel , and that information be report to the national child mortality database . there be a monthly exercise by NHS official to check the waiting list against NHS record , so we do monitor the situation closely , and the mental health and wellbeing of this particular cohort of child and young people be both very close to my heart and very close to my gaze . I certainly welcome the Secretary of State ' s extension of the ban on the prescription of puberty blocker . I want to ask he whether he have more information for we on the criterion that will apply for entry into the clinical trial . will there , for example , be a minimum age ? will parental consent be require ? both those thing seem to be important , so may I have assurance on those two point ? the detail of the trial be still be work through . they will be and be subject to a robust ethical approval process . only once final ethical approval be grant be the final study design set in stone . as such , I can not comment on the fine detail at this time , but I just reassure the hon . and learn Member that the issue he raise be very much under consideration in the design of the trial . I share the concern express by expert at the Council of Europe that remove access to puberty blocker except through clinical trial may breach the fundamental ethical principle govern research , amount to coercion and therefore a breach of young people ' s human right . exactly how harmful that decision be , however , hinge on how easy or hard it be to get on the clinical trial . how many place will there be on the trial ? if he can not at this stage , can he please reassure I that he will take careful consideration of the fact that if the trial be limited in size , that will cause harm to more tran and gender - question young people . the trial will be uncap , and I reassure the hon . Member and the House that all NIHR - commission research must go through robust scientific and ethical approval process , both of which can influence final study design . in term of the design of this trial , ethic be an integral part of the trial ' s approval . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , which I welcome , both in its tone and the approach take . I welcome that this indefinite ban will include Northern Ireland . I thank the Secretary of State and his predecessor for the collaborative approach they have take with the Minister of Health in Northern Ireland . it be important for the House to note that the ban in Northern Ireland be support by all the Northern Ireland Executive party . in his statement , the Secretary of State talk about be able " to restrict the sale or supply of puberty blocker … through a prescription issue by … a prescriber register outside the United Kingdom . " what step will he take to close all those loophole and avenue that would allow these drug to be prescribe , recommend or supply by online supplier for under - 18 ? the challenge that the hon . member mention relate not just to these drug , but go more generally , too , and it be something we be look at closely . more broadly , I want to acknowledge the first part of his question . I be grateful , not just to my counterpart Mike Nesbitt in the Northern Ireland Executive , but to the First Minister , the Deputy First Minister and all party involve in the Northern Ireland Executive for the collaborative way and the spirit in which they have engage in discussion about this issue for Northern Ireland , and also for their willingness to work in partnership with the UK Government . that be to their credit and to the benefit of all citizen across every part of the United Kingdom . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , today the Government publish their 10 - year prison capacity strategy . this long - await and significant document lead most news programme last night and this morning . the medium have be fully brief , and the Lord Chancellor have give interview and accompany Nick Robinson of the " Today " programme to HMP Stocken to explain the strategy . the strategy envisage a huge prison - build programme , but still predict that prison will be full again in three year without change to sentence policy . the people who have not have an opportunity to discuss this be member of this House , include member of the Justice Committee , which last week announce a major inquiry into rehabilitation and reduce reoffende . a cynic might think that by utilise a write ministerial statement to launch the strategy , rather than an oral statement , the Government avoid scrutiny by member and your reaction , Madam Deputy Speaker , to the medium be inform of important policy announcement before this House . how can I ensure that this matter can be fully explore by all member ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . I have have no indication that the Justice Secretary intend to come to the House to make a statement , and I have no power to compel she to do so . the Table Office will be able to advise he on how he might be able to pursue the matter far . I will now announce the result of today ' s deferred Division on the draft Movement of Goods ( Northern Ireland to Great Britain ) ( animal , Feed and Food , Plant Health etc . ) ( Transitory Provision and Miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2024 . the Ayes be 375 and the Noes be nine , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] theft of Tools of Trade ( Sentencing ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about sentencing for theft in relation to the theft of tool of trade ; and for connected purpose . over recent year , there have be a sharp increase in the theft of tradespeople ' s tool , usually from vehicle . one in 10 tradespeople can expect to have their tool steal this year , and the same proportion have already experience three or more such theft in their career . the impact on an individual or small business from the theft of critical tool go well beyond the value of the tool themselves . in addition to the average value of steal tool of about £ 2 , 730 , repair damage vehicle cost about £ 1 , 300 and the immediate loss of work and business interruption amount to almost £ 2 , 000 . it be hard to put a value on the long - term damage suffer as small business find themselves unable to honour commitment or complete contract on time , but 40 % of victim report a negative reputational effect , and one in 10 describe it as a significant reputational blow to their business and future business . More than four out of five victim of tool theft report an impact on their mental health and emotional wellbeing , with more than one describe it as major . the construction industry have one of the high suicide rate in the UK compare with other occupation and profession . Van Watch , a not - for - profit organisation work in my constituency , have provide much of the research and inspiration for the Bill . it have be campaign tirelessly to protect tradie from tool theft from their van . Van Watch ' s research suggest that there be little confidence among the trade community that either the police or the court be on their side , with over 85 % dissatisfied or very dissatisfied with sentencing policy . in another study it find that , in 451 case of tool theft , less than 10 come to court and less than two result in a custodial sentence . I have hear some really difficult example from my constituent of the impact of these crime , and I will share a couple with the House . Calum have just get marry and buy his own house . one morning in 2018 , he wake up to find the driver ' s door and rear door break on his van . overnight , someone have take over £ 10 , 000 - worth of power tool that he use to run his business . the thief escape prison despite have previous offence for similar theft . he lose more than £ 10 , 000 in tool , not to mention the loss in earning of several day as he scramble to get a work vehicle and basic tool just to get back to work . it take a toll on its mental health , and he struggle desperately with anger at the apparent lack of justice . six year later , he tell I that he finally manage to replace all the tool . he also have to size up a garage and pay extra to fit his Transit van in as he do not believe that his van be safe on the road at night . Pete tell I how in the middle of the night he wake up to a drilling sound outside his house . he look out and see his van be drill and his tool be steal . he confront the thief , who do not seem faze at all at be catch . he feel that the thief commit these crime have no fear of repercussion . he call the police , and although the thief do end up get catch , they do not go to prison and none of his tool be recover . it be simply not practical to empty work van every single night . People should reasonably expect to be able to keep the tool of their livelihood in locked and alarmed van , with they be safe outside their house and on the street . I turn to current sentencing guideline , which look at culpability rate and harm rate , with culpability define as a letter — a , b or c — and harm measure on a numerical scale from one to four . anyone take a leadership role in crime , coerce other or target vulnerable people be likely to get a culpability rating of A , people who be coerce into crime get a culpability rating of C and everyone in the middle get a b . Harm cause by crime be measure on a four - point scale , with harm category one reserve for high - value steal good — over £ 100 , 000 — category two cover theft between £ 10 , 000 and £ 100 , 000 and category three cover theft between £ 500 and £ 10 , 000 . when consider the sentence , the magistrate refer to a chart in the guideline to find the appropriate sentence . for example , if the culpability rating be b and the value of the steal good be £ 5 , 000 , that would be a category three offence . the sentence can range from a low - level community service order to 36 week ' custody . in addition , the guidance give a starting point ; in this example , that would be a high - level community service order . the maximum sentence for theft be seven year in prison . however , for a category three offence with a medium , b culpability rating , the sentencing guideline tend to direct court towards a much less , non - custodial sentence . how do we reform that and ensure that tradespeople have justice ? if the court have a well understanding of the impact of tool theft on individual and small business , the system would deal with the crime in a much more just way . in the Bill , I propose the follow reform . first , there be a provision for the harm category to be uprate to the next high category if there be evidence of significant additional harm to the victim or other . the sentencing guideline give example of what might constitute significant additional harm . theft of tool of trade would be add to the list of those example , to prompt magistrate to consider apply category two for great harm , instead of the usual category three . secondly , there be a lack of clarity about how to calculate monetary value in order to determine the category . in one section , the guidance refer to financial loss ; in another , it refer to the value of steal good . in the case of tool theft from vehicle , there be often a big difference between the value of the steal tool and the total financial loss , include repair to the van , loss of work and business interruption . on average , the latter cost more than replace the tool do . the wording should be standardise as " financial loss " , so that more tool theft would fall into category two . finally , a crime with a medium culpability rate of b and category two for harm would result in a sentence range from six month to two year in prison , with the starting point be one year in prison , rather than a community order . those reform would make it more likely that tool theft would lead to a custodial sentence , strengthen the deterrent and lead to a potential reduction in this crime . I thank Ray and Van Watch for their considerable and thorough research , which have contribute significantly to the shaping of the Bill , and their unwavering support . I also thank Jambu , the chief executive officer of Checkatrade , the home improvement platform base in Portsmouth North that be back the Bill on behalf of the 100 , 000 tradespeople and 500 , 000 small business on its platform . I would welcome member of the House share this campaign with trade group and small business across the country , so that they can join we in back the Bill . tradie be the backbone of our country and our small business economy . they deserve to operate their business free from the constant threat of crime . reform the sentencing guideline and tackle the theft of tool of the trade be not just a matter of justice ; it be about recognise the essential role that tradespeople play every day in our economy . increase the penalty for tool theft would send a clear message that these crime will no long be tolerate . we must afford tradespeople great protection in the justice system . I ask the House to back my Bill and stand up for worker in the trade sector , whom we rely on , and who work hard every day to build , repair and serve our community . question put and agree to . order , that Amanda Martin , Ms Stella Creasy , Margaret Mullane , Mrs Sharon Hodgson , Jodie Gosling , Dr Allison Gardner , Laurence Turner , Shaun Davies , Gurinder Singh Josan , Darren Paffey , Chris Bloore and Mark Ferguson present the Bill . Amanda Martin accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 25 April 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 143 ) . Finance Bill [ 2nd Allocated Day ] - ( clause 47 to 49 , 50 to 53 , and relate New Clauses ) Further consider in Committee ( Progress report , 10 December ) [ Judith Cummins in the Chair ] I remind member that in Committee they should not address the Chair as Madam Deputy Speaker . please use our name when address the Chair . " Madam Chair " , " Chair " and " Madam Chairman " be also acceptable . clause 47 - Removal of exemption for private school fee Question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider the following : clause 48 and 49 stand part . new clause 8 — statement on charge vat on private school fee — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of this Act be pass , make a statement to Parliament about the removal of the exemption for private school fee introduce by section 47 of this Act , and other change to private school fee introduce by section 48 and 49 of this Act . ( 2 ) the statement under subsection ( 1 ) must include detail of the impact on — ( a ) pupil with special educational need and disability , ( b ) small rural school , and ( c ) faith school . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , within 18 month of this Act be pass , make a statement about the impact of the removal of the exemption on school that take part in the music and dance scheme . " this new clause require the Secretary of State to make a statement about the impact of charge vat on private school fee . new clause 9 — pupil with SEND without an Education Health and Care Plan : review of vat provision — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of the passing of this Act and every six month thereafter , lie before Parliament a review of the impact of the measure contain in section 47 to 49 of this Act on pupil with special educational need and disability . ( 2 ) the review must consider in particular the impact of those measure on — ( a ) child with special need who do not have an education health and care plan ( EHCP ) ; and ( b ) the number of child whose family have apply for an EHCP . " this new clause would require the Government to produce an impact assessment of the effect of the vat provision in the Act on pupil who have special educational need but do not have an Education Health and Care Plan . this government believe that all child should have the opportunity to succeed . that opportunity should not be limit by who they be , where they be from or how much their parent earn . we be determined that a young person ' s background should not limit what they can achieve . that be why , despite the dire fiscal situation that we inherit and the numerous tough choice that it have entail , the Chancellor prioritise investment in education at the Budget in October . at that Budget , the Chancellor announce real - term growth of 3 . 4 % in education funding , include a £ 2 . 3 billion increase to the core school budget in England for the next financial year . this funding support the recruitment of 6 , 500 additional teacher , in line with the Government ' s commitment , and include £ 1 billion for the special educational need and disability system , to help the 1 million pupil in the state system with special educational need . this government will make sure that all child get the high - quality education that they deserve , as well as high - quality school building ; funding have be announce for the school rebuilding programme , and for school maintenance , so that we can begin to tackle the maintenance backlog . these change be crucial first step to improve education for all child and meet the aspiration of parent across the country . investment in education have to be pay for , so I turn to the focus of this debate : our decision to end the vat exemption for private school fee . in July , the Chancellor announce that the Government will end tax break on vat and business rate for private school . these policy be expect to raise £ 1 . 5 billion in their first full year , rise to over £ 1 . 8 billion a year by 2029 - 30 . have the impact on the market of child be withdraw from school be great than expect ? in my time as a Minister , I always find that the Treasury rather underestimate the dynamic impact of policy change . I would be interested to hear his reflection . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question on the impact of the policy on child ' s education . I will come to the detail shortly , but to give he an overview of the forecast impact , we estimate that ultimately there will be around 37 , 000 few pupil in the private sector . that be a combination of pupil who will never enter the private sector in the first place and those who will leave . they represent around 6 % of private school pupil . we expect most of the move to take place at natural transition point , such as when a child move from primary to secondary school or at the beginning of exam course . if the intention of the Government be that the move should happen at natural transition point , why do they decide to impose the change from January ? whatever one ' s view on the merit of the policy , that be not really fair on the parent affect . indeed , one could say it be cruel . it be right that these change be implement as soon as possible to raise the funding that we need to deliver on our education priority . as a result of the policy come into effect in January , we will raise a forecast £ 460 million of additional revenue in 2024 - 25 . we be ambitious for the state education system , and we want to get on with deliver the change that we commit to in the manifesto . I must declare that I , like many parent in Surrey , have choose independent education for my child . a freedom of information request early this week regard empty school place in Surrey show that in the ' 25 - 26 academic year , there be zero spare place in year 9 , zero in year 10 and zero in year 11 . the Minister will know that in independent school , many child in those year take international gcse and baccalaureate . what be his message to those child , who have no place and will have their exam training disrupt because of his spiteful policy ? local authority and school already have process in place to support pupil who move between school at any point in the academic year . analysis carry out by the Department for Education under the previous Government suggest that each year , almost 60 , 000 secondary school move take place not at normal transition point or over the school holiday . we fully expect the majority of move to take place at natural transition point or in the school holiday , rather than within the school year . I have be clear that end these tax break for private school have be a difficult decision , but it be necessary to secure additional funding that will help we to fulfil the commitment we make to improve education for all . the Minister continually refer to tax break . they be not tax break . why can he not just be honest with the House and admit that this be the first time that any Government in a civilised democracy have impose a tax on learning and education ? let I explain to the hon . Gentleman how public finance work . fund a tax relief or a tax break be equivalent to public spending , because it be money that can not be spend on something else . the Conservatives have commit , through their new leadership , to repeal this policy if they win the next general election . that imply cut state education — cut the investment in education for all that we be prioritise . rise — I will not give way because I be make a clear point . we have to make choice in politic about what to prioritise . we have say that the VAT tax break for private school fee be not something that we want to prioritise . we want to spend that money instead on improve state education for all child . I be grateful to the Minister for give way a second time , and I be so grateful for the public finance lesson . surely he have to accept that as no tax be place on learn in any sector in the educational landscape across the United Kingdom , this measure be not a tax break . it be not that there be a tax break for one sector while other have a tax impose . this be an imposition of a new tax in the educational sphere . it be not a tax break because no educational establishment pay vat . give the record of the Conservatives over the past 14 year , I do not think it be ridiculous to assume that they might need some education on how public finance work , with the mess that we inherit and the desperate need for we to restore fiscal responsibility to public finance . restore that fiscal responsibility require we to take decision that be difficult but necessary to raise the finance to fund our priority . we have take the decision that we will not support a vat exemption for private school fee and that we will invest the money that we raise in state education to ensure that the aspiration of every parent across this country can be fulfil . that be a decision I will defend every time I be in this Chamber . my constituent would be surprised that there be no tax exemption on tampon , which be use by close to 50 % of society , yet there be a tax exemption for vat on private school , which be use by less than 5 % of the country . do my hon . friend not agree that it be a mark of the priority of Conservative Members that they be so quiet about the former but not the latter ? my hon . friend be right to point out that decision on vat relief be political choice . indeed , the opposition be show which side of that choice they land on when it come to education ; through their new leadership , they be choose to prioritise a tax break for private school fee over investment in state education . that be a political choice . I be very happy to stand behind where we be on that side of the debate . I will turn to some of the clause in detail . the change make by clause 47 will remove the vat exemption from which private school currently benefit on the education , vocational training and boarding they provide . let I be clear : this policy do not mean that school must increase fee by 20 % , and the Government expect school to take step to minimise the increase for parent . school can reclaim vat pay on input and make efficiency saving to minimise the extent to which they need to increase fee . many school have already commit publicly to cap fee increase at 5 % or absorb the full vat cost themselves . one of the school in my area have pose a question on vat . it have combine fee , within which thing like meal be include . it be not clear from Treasury guidance whether the school would have to separate those fee out , create another accounting problem — in order to have separate vat and travel , for example , as part of the fee — when currently it be all one unit . could the Minister provide clarity on that ? when I meet the Schools Minister , he be unable to give I an answer , and be go to go away and speak to the Treasury about what that look like . this will have real impact for this school , which will have to decide how to set out its accounting , and whether it have to include the fee or separate they out into several different block . I thank the hon . gentleman for his specific question . let I just be clear that I be not give tax advice for that particular school in my response , because I would always assume that any school would get its own tax advice . in general , the vat treatment of a particular supply be determine by the predominant supply , so there be option available to school . I be happy to pick the matter up with he outside the Chamber and to make sure he have the detail in writing . as I say , I would not want to give specific advice to that school , but it be worth the school get advice on the vat treatment of the fee it charge base on the predominant supply . I will return to the impact of the policy we be propose and the change in clause 47 . government analysis suggest that the impact of the vat policy on private and state school sector be likely to be very small — ultimately lead , as I be say a few moment ago , to 37 , 000 few pupil in the private sector , which include both pupil who will never enter the private sector and those who will move . a particular subset of pupil affect by this policy be those in receipt of the continuity of education allowance . the revised figure for the CEA , release recently , do not fully protect those pupil from the uplift on vat on school fee . what assessment have the Government make of the impact of this policy on retention and recruitment into our armed force and our diplomatic service ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the continuity of education allowance , because the Government greatly value the contribution of our diplomatic staff and serve personnel . the continuity of education allowance be therefore provide to ensure that the need for frequent mobility do not interfere with the education of their child . as he may know , the Ministry of Defence and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have increase the funding allocate to the continuity of education allowance , to account for the impact of any private school fee increase on the proportion of fee cover by the CEA , in line with how the allowance normally operate . the Government have carefully consider the impact of the policy set out in clause 47 and receive a wide range of representation cover topic that have already be raise in the debate today . the Government receive more than 17 , 000 consultation response , and my official and I have meet those represent school , local authority and devolve government . as a result of these representation , the Government have make several change to the legislation , include to clarify the treatment of nursery . in decide on the final design of the policy , we have make sure that school be treat fairly and consistently . a number of hon . member have raise with I concern about the impact of this measure on particular type of school and on different pupil , so I be glad to have this chance to address some of those point . first , to protect pupil with special educational need that can be meet only in a private school , the local authority and devolve government that fund these place will be compensate for the vat they be charge on those pupil ' fee . secondly , as I just mention in response to the intervention on military and diplomatic family , the Ministry of Defence and the Foreign Office have agree to increase the funding allocate to the continuity of education allowance to account for the impact of private school fee increase . the Government be aware that while many school have always offer scheme enable the prepayment of fee , there be concern report of some parent use such scheme in an attempt to avoid these fee be subject to vat . the Government believe that allow fee pay from the date of the July statement to the date this policy come into force to be pay without charge vat on they would be unfair on the vast majority of family who will be unable to pay year - worth of fee in advance . the change make by clause 48 will therefore introduce anti - forestall provision that will apply to all prepayment of private school fee and boarding service on or after 29 July 2024 and before 30 October 2024 . finally , clause 49 set out the commencement date for these change , which will apply to any fee pay on or after 29 July 2024 relate to the term start in January 2025 . to conclude , the reason the Government be raise funding from the change we be debate today be to increase investment in the state education system . every parent aspire for high - quality education for their child . the removal of the vat exemption for private school will help to support the Government ' s investment in school and ensure that every child have a chance to thrive . we be determined to be a Government who enable the aspiration of all parent to be meet and who ensure that all child have the opportunity to succeed . I therefore commend these clause to the Committee . I call the Opposition spokesperson . I rise to speak on behalf of the Opposition , and particularly to new clause 8 . let I start by briefly consider the context in which we be debate the Bill . it come after a Budget in which the Chancellor say that we must have " an economy that be grow , create wealth and opportunity for all " — [ Official Report , 30 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 811 . ] but that be not what this Finance Bill deliver . instead , the Budget be forecast to deliver low growth , high borrowing and high inflation . the Minister refer to choice , and the Government have indeed make choice . they have choose to tax enterprise , to tax the wealth creator and to tax the farmer who be , again , outside Parliament protest against the family farm tax — I wonder whether , on one of his rare jaunt to this country , the Prime Minister have go out to speak to they . rather than promote opportunity , it be the Government ' s choice to bring in a new tax on aspiration . my hon . friend talk about choice , and one of the choice that independent school be now go to have to make be how to use their own resource , such as their sport pitch , bursary and scholarship . the kind of thing that benefit the wide local community may now have to be turn into fundraising and revenue - make machine to be able to deal with this change , which in turn mean that other school will not be able to use their community facility , such as their football pitch . those may all have to be charge more for , or indeed cut completely , as the independent school have to make those difficult choice . that be not good for community cohesion at all . my hon . friend make an important point . over our 14 year in government , one of the thing that consecutive Education Secretaries do be to work with the independent sector precisely to open up those facility , in recognition of the public good and benefit to their community that they be deliver . far to the excellent intervention from my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , that be exactly what happen with school in my constituency . haberdasher ' school partner with 1 , 400 state school pupil every single week . when the Minister talk about find efficiency , these be exactly the sort of programme that will suffer . there be no other place for those student to go if they leave private school in my constituency , so on both count everyone be bad off . that be one of the inequity of the policy . my right hon . friend make a powerful point , which reflect the rash nature of the policy and the inadequacy of the impact assessment , which do not address those issue . the shadow Minister speak about a tax on aspiration , but what be his problem with have aspiration for all child in all our school ? we be about the 100 % of pupil . we be not try to divide and rule like the Labour party . rise — I will make a little progress , if the hon . Gentleman do not mind . sadly , this cruel tax , which be be impose midway through the academic year , will damage the education of thousand of pupil . it be sadly typical of the ideological approach that we have see the new Government take on education , where they be trash the record of school , pupil , teacher and governor over the past 14 year when we rise up the international league table . give that there be many on the Government Benches who have almost as their life ' s work the destruction of the private school system , be my hon . friend as shock as I be that for this flagship policy , which the red flag have so often demand , the Government Benches be so underpopulated ? I think that they would be there to cheer the Minister on . my hon . friend make an important point . he will have be here throughout many of the debate on the Finance Bill , the national insurance and job tax Bill , where very few Labour Members have make contribution to defend their first Budget for 14 year . I think we all know why . clause 47 remove the exemption for private school fee and spell out what labour ' s education tax will mean from 1 January . as my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) say , do that mid - year be a cruel measure . far to that point , I think one of the reason there may be so few colleague on the Labour Benches be because they stand on a manifesto that be all about economic growth , protect farmer and hold down tax . that be what they stand on , but it turn out that they have a leftist Front Bench which have introduce this pernicious tax midway through the year , and we have an Education Secretary so fill with malice and spite that she can not even bring herself to congratulate the state school that have be no . 1 in the country three year in a row . my right hon . friend make a typically salient point . I agree , in particular about the lack of congratulation . the Education Secretary be not prepared to congratulate the head of Michaela school , which be the good perform school in the country . put vat on independent school will particularly hurt those parent on modest income who be save to send their child to a school that they think will well serve their need . none of those parent be get a tax break . they be also contribute to funding place in the state system , whether or not their child take one up . the clause exclude the teaching of English as a foreign language , education at nursery and high education course from the new tax , but the Government have already cross the line . they be tax education and learn for the first time . will the Minister rule out widen the scope of the education tax to include university fee , for example ? the opposition be deeply concerned about the impact the tax will have on pupil with special educational need , small rural school , faith school and school take part in the music and dance scheme . we have consistently warn of the damage it will do to young people ' s education , and we vote against the measure in the Budget resolution . new clause 8 , in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , the shadow Chancellor , would require the Chancellor , within six month of the Act be pass , to make a statement to Parliament on the impact of the change on those group in particular , as well as the music and dance scheme . that be need because there be such a wide gap between what the Minister be tell we and what the limited impact assessment be say , and what all hon . member who be actually talk to school and parent know will be the case . the shadow Minister talk about talk to school . I have speak to school in my constituency for many year , and I be sure he have speak to the school in his . the " School cut " website tell we that North West Norfolk have see a £ 2 . 2 million cut in its state school since 2010 . perhaps he could point to the record where he speak out against those cut . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman . if he check the record , he will see that the level of per pupil funding actually increase over the last 14 year . I congratulate the school in my constituency that have just receive good rating from Ofsted — a number of they have do so . will the shadow Minister give way ? no , I win ' t at this stage . there be more than 100 , 000 pupil with special educational need and disability in independent school who do not have education , health and care plan , so they will be subject to this tax . that could make it unaffordable for the parent of those child to send they to the school that they think be well place to look after they . there will be demand in place where there be not capacity as a result . a number of local authority have point that out . that will just make the problem that council face with their SEND budget bad , despite the record amount we have put into high need . do my hon . friend agree that this disastrous education tax risk have a severe impact on those child and pupil with SEND in independent school ? it will force child with SEND out of independent school as fee become unaffordable for their parent and it risk overwhelm the state provision , as there be not sufficient state provision at the moment . absolutely . my hon . friend make the point very well . the knock - on impact and the damage to those child ' s education will be considerable . More than 40 % of independent school be small school . they be at the heart of their local community . they do not have big endowment . they operate on wafer - thin margin and simply can not absorb change of this magnitude , so it be likely that those school will cut bursary place that exist due to this new tax that put their viability at risk . on SEND funding , the East Riding of Yorkshire be the lowest funded local authority for SEND per pupil . child in the Prime Minister ' s constituency get three time more funding than child in mine , which be a travesty in itself . this policy will put even more strain on my local authority and the child who desperately need support from it . absolutely ; I completely agree with my hon . friend . the Government hide behind the cloak of say , " if you have an ehcp , everything be okay , " but 100 , 000 child in school across our country will be impact . the next area we be concern about be faith school , which tend to be small and charge low fee . the Independent Schools Council have warn that " low - cost faith school will be face with deficit and closure , community will lose vital asset " . there be small religious group that do not have any state sector provision that can meet their need as a denomination . religious group be mount legal challenge as a result , battle for the right to educate their child and battle for the right to choose , which we on the conservative Benches certainly support . new clause 8 ( 3 ) refer to the music and dance scheme , which provide grant to talented young people who could not otherwise attend world - class institution such as the Royal Ballet school . we welcome the Government ' s decision , under pressure , to delay tax school in this scheme until September next year , but that exemption should be make permanent . to return to one of the point that have be make , in the Budget statement the Chancellor say : " 94 % of child in the UK attend state school . to provide the high - quality support and teaching that they deserve , we will introduce vat on private school fee " . — [ Official Report , 30 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 821 . ] that be a deliberately divisive approach . the Opposition support 100 % of pupil . we care about all child . we simply believe that parent should be able to choose . we have consistently raise the situation of military family , to which the Minister refer , and argue that they should be exempt from this tax . the Government do not agree to that , but in response to our campaign they say : " we will uprate the continuity of education allowance to reflect the increase in school fee from January . " — [ Official Report , 18 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 3 . ] well , the new continuity of education allowance have be announce and , as my hon . friend the Member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) point out , they fall short of protect service family from the change . that will have a direct impact on the retention and recruitment of our armed force . there be 4 , 200 child who benefit . the allowance be in place to meet the need of the armed force when they have to move around the country or serve overseas and boarding school or other provision be the only available option . give the importance of this allowance for the retention of military personnel , why have the Government not meet the commitment that they make to our armed force ? do my hon . friend agree that the veteran ' commissioner that will be introduce by the new Government will be perfectly prime to look at this kind of problem to ensure that both Departments — the Ministry of Defence and the Department for Education — get the good ? be that not the purpose of the commissioner ? I very much hope so . I know from my year as an adviser in the Ministry of Defence just how important the allowance be for retention . that be why it be so disappointing that the Government have break their promise . I be grateful to the many organisation that have share concern about the implementation of these clause , especially as the measure be rush and be take place in the middle of the school year . the Chartered Institute of Taxation have call for a delay , say that it be " concerned that neither HMRC nor the private school will be ready to implement the change in vat liability effectively " . in order to meet the mid - term deadline , HMRC have to register the school in just five work week — an issue that new clause 8 could address . let I start by say how deeply and genuinely grateful I be to the Secretary of State for Education for provide the money to rebuild Tiverton high school follow a 20 - year campaign . I also want to disassociate myself from some of the comment make by conservative colleague . some of they be personalise and vituperative , and I do not wish to be associate with they . that say — order . may I remind member that intervention need to be on the point and to pose a question ? blundell ' s school be also in Tiverton . would the hon . member be surprised to hear that when canvass in Tiverton , in area that might be consider relatively poor , I meet numerous grandparent who be save money every month to help their child to pay for a well future for their own child at Blundell ' s school , through bursary ? I entirely agree with that point . family come together to help out , perhaps to fund a place for grandchild to give they the good chance in life . we be not go to criticise people who make that choice , but unfortunately the Government be single they out with their vindictive measure . this change also represent a significant complication of the tax system . even HMRC seem confused . the guidance on vat registration for private school have undergo seven technical update since its publication , and there be confusion — as have be mention — about the meaning of " closely relate supply " . on the subject of confusion , my hon . friend will have observe that the hon . member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) appear not to have notice that vat be remove from tampon on 1 January 2021 by the Conservative Government . be my hon . friend , like I , hopeful that the hon . member — however ignorant he may be of change in our tax law — may join we in the Lobby tonight to oppose this pernicious policy ? that would be consistent with the view that he try to espouse a little early . we can but hope that the hon . Member will join we in the Lobby tonight , and also that he will one day develop the attuned knowledge that my right hon . friend have of the tax system and the change that be introduce in the last Parliament . let I add that the Association of School and College Leaders have say that there be " increase anxiety among school leader " who be have to deal with the change in the middle of the academic year . this be the first time an education tax have be introduce , which be why we need to oppose it and review its impact . the Government ' s very limited impact assessment estimate that 37 , 000 more pupil will come into the state sector , at a cost of £ 270 million a year . it also concede that there will be a loss of place equivalent to the closure of 100 more independent school over the next three year than would otherwise be predict . that assessment be thin , and the Government ' s consultation be flawed . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . the Government ' s impact assessment also assume that the loss of place will be spread uniformly across the country , which will not be the case . in many constituency , particularly those represent by conservative , a large number of student be at private school , and the loss of those place will have a significant impact on local school where there be not the place to absorb they . my right hon . friend have his finger right on the pulse . the Government claim that there be plenty of place , but they be not in the area where they will be need . member represent constituency in Hertfordshire , Worcestershire and Buckinghamshire , for example , have already draw attention to their concern about that . the new education tax be damaging and unfair . we oppose it , and our new clause would ensure that the true consequence of this tax on aspiration become clear . I will try to confine my remark to the subject of state education , because the scope of the debate have go somewhat beyond what I have either the expertise or the time to discuss . in view of the critical and urgent relevance of state education funding to the parent , pupil and other people of Falkirk , I support the removal of the vat exemption on private school fee . when Labour enter government in July , we inherit dire public finance and break public service , which require necessary decision to be take to renew the foundation of the country . the guide principle of the tax decision take in the Budget be clear : those with the broad shoulder should pay their fair share so that we could invest in our public service . a critical part of invest in the future be invest in state education . I speak from experience as a former local councillor . through no fault of the brilliant teacher and education officer who deliver state education , local authority such as SNP - control Falkirk council have seek to reduce teacher number , close school swimming pool , cut additional support and even reduce valuable initiative such as music lesson . this broad trend of council underfunding in Scotland , and throughout the United Kingdom , have leave school underfunde , newly qualified teaching post scarcer and resource overstretch , and have leave council with very little room for manoeuvre . tomorrow , at a meeting of Falkirk council , there will be a proposal on the table to cut learn hour across the Falkirk district , deprive a child educate in Falkirk of a year of learn time across his or her primary and secondary schooling journey , and lead to the low number of school hour anywhere in school . the Falkirk Labour group oppose that proposal , as do I , and they will vote for it to be take off the table tomorrow . in stark contrast to this crisis in our state education system , spending per pupil in private school be nearly 90 % high than in the state sector as of 2022 - 23 , and the gap between private school and state school spending per pupil have more than double since 2010 . for all the chat about this measure lead to an unworkable hike in fee , its opponent must match their rhetoric with the fact that fee have soar , on average , by 55 % in real term since 2003 for those who choose to pay for their kid ' education . lift the vat exemption on private school fee will raise £ 1 . 8 billion annually by 2029 - 30 — fund that will , and should , go directly into state education . this be an essential funding stream that will help to relieve the financial pressure on local authority ’ education budget , and it be be deliver by this UK Labour Government . I welcome the Scottish Government ' s commitment to spend all the consequential funding that will flow from this UK Labour Government ' s decision on education , and I also welcome the tepid and understate support of SNP colleague . I note that , again , no SNP Members be in the Chamber . it be predictable but disappointing that the opposition say this measure sacrifice aspiration . I apologise for interrupt my hon . friend in mid - flow . be he surprised that SNP MPs be not here , give the absolutely shocking record in Scotland on education ? I be surprised that our SNP colleague be not here , but , again , I welcome their eventual and tepid support for this measure during the general election campaign — something that they have try to distance themselves from . I be proudly educate at two Falkirk state school : Ladeside primary and Larbert high . neither I nor the 94 % of young people in the UK who be educate at state school should ever feel like our parent or our teacher lack aspiration for we . from my conversation with parent , pupil and teacher in Falkirk about their concern about our state education system , I know that their overwhelming opinion be that we must now invest in our state education system as a priority . if today ' s decision be between billion of pound go into state education annually and have £ 1 . 5 billion to £ 1 . 8 billion less for state education by maintain a tax exemption for fee - pay institution , I know what the people of Falkirk ' s preference be . Falkirk do not need tax break for institution that largely serve the wealthy . Falkirk do need well - fund state school . we come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . I rise to speak in support of new clause 9 , table in my name . it would require the Government to produce an impact assessment of the effect of the imposition of vat on school fee on pupil who have special educational need , but who be without an education , health and care plan . the Liberal Democrats have be absolutely crystal clear : we be oppose to this tax on education , and we call on the Government to rethink their decision . it be an unnecessary , unfair and counterproductive policy . in our manifesto for the general election , we lay out our ambitious plan for education , from put a dedicated mental health professional in every primary and secondary school to expand free school meal to all child in poverty and triple the early year pupil premium . at the heart of that vision be the principle that education be the single good investment we can make . all our child deserve the opportunity to reach their potential , yet too many child be not be support to achieve that potential . in our manifesto , we set out a whole host of fair tax rise to pay for our ambitious plan , which do not penalise parent for choose to invest in their child ' s education . I gently point out to conservative colleague — who have rightly point out that this be the first time we be see a tax on education , which be quite wrong in principle — that the only reason why the Labour Government be able to do this be Brexit . the Conservatives support the Brexit deal , so I gently point out to they that this be something that they support in principle . like so many Liberal Democrats , the hon . Lady seem to have forget that her party be the first major party to call for a referendum . Brexit be support by the british people , not the conservative party . the leadership of the conservative party at the time be in favour of remain . the people decide . it be about time the Liberal Democrats learn to respect the people ' s choice . I remind the right hon . Gentleman that it be his Government who negotiate the Brexit deal . I want to put that on the record . colleague from across the House have speak frequently in recent month about the crisis face SEND provision in this country , and we have hear so many story of struggle family fight within a fail system to get their child the education they deserve . after year of conservative neglect , the system be on its knee . just this week , we have hear from the Institute for Fiscal Studies about the scale of the problem . once again , its report lay out clearly the huge cost that have leave local council on the brink , while fail to deliver well outcome for child . two out of every three special school be oversubscribed . just half of education , health and care plan be grant within the statutory 20 - week limit , and 98 % of those reject be grant on appeal when parent go to tribunal . it be clear that the system be fail family and our vulnerable young people , so be it any wonder that parent who feel that their child ' s need can not be meet in the state system be turn to the independent sector if they can just about manage it ? small school of less than 100 pupil make up some 40 % of the independent sector . in so many case , those be the school that struggle and strive each day to provide desperately need support for SEND pupil — support that , sadly , be all too often unavailable in their local state school . those be the school that will be punish under this measure , and the family who will need to bear the load . the Government have say that pupil who have be place by a local authority in an independent school to fulfil the term of their EHCP will be exempt from the vat hike . take in isolation , that be a welcome mitigation to this damaging policy , but there be a whopping 100 , 000 SEND pupil in the independent sector who do not have an ehcp , and their family will be saddle with this vat hike . one such family come to see I in my surgery a few week ago . the parent be in tear in front of I . their son have autism and various other need . when he be in an excellent local state primary school , he be at risk of exclusion because of the behaviour that be manifest as a result of his additional need , which could not be support in that state primary school . those parent make the difficult decision to remove he and put he in a local private school , where he be thrive . he be cope well and his condition be be well manage . his parent be not just pay the basic school fee ; they be pay an extra £ 18 , 000 a year on top of the school fee for the additional support their child need . all of that will be subject to vat , which be why they be in my office in tear . they do not know how they be go to meet those cost to keep their child , who be at threat of be exclude from a state school , thrive . that be the individual human reality of this policy , which the Minister just wave away with number , as if these statistic do not have human story and face behind they . the hon . Member be do a fantastic job represent her constituent , but she be describe a fail system where people with money can get access to well treatment for their child . no one envy a parent put in that position , but my hope and expectation be that through this policy we can improve outcome for all child . I expect that she share that objective , but we can not do it by defend the exist system at all cost . this measure will raise income to solve the very problem that she describe . the hon . Gentleman say that I be describe a fail system , and I be ; I set that out . the SEND system be fail many child across this country , but I say to he gently — I make this point to the Minister in a similar debate a few week ago — that I do not think the level of investment that this measure will make in our state SEND system will fix that system . that will take many year and many billion of pound , which I suspect that the Chancellor of the Exchequer do not have , and I do not think the answer to that be to penalise those who have scrimp and save to be able to offer their child opportunity . if I may , I will give the hon . Gentleman an example of another constituent who email I . she remortgage her home , cash in her pension plan and be struggle to be able to send her child to a local independent school after the local state school could not meet her child ' s special need . she say something that I think partly echo what he be say : " be this fair when other child with the same difficulty as mine be not able to access the same level of help ? no . definitely not . believe I , I would never have choose this route but I have be leave with no choice . be it fair to punish we far financially for the failing of the state education system ? no ! " so I think the hon . Gentleman and I be in agreement , but I do not think the state SEND system be go to be fix quickly or adequately enough , and I do not think the answer to that be to level down everybody ' s opportunity . we need to level up opportunity for all and not penalise the parent who have make the often very difficult choice to ensure that their child have the opportunity that they wish to give they . far to the point make by the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , one of the complicate factor in Scotland be that we have no way of know for sure whether the money raise from vat on school throughout the United Kingdom will go back into our state education system in Scotland , which be struggle just as badly as the system in England , if not more so . on the point about parent of child with SEND , be there not a danger that , rather than pay the extra fee , because they can not pay they they will take their child out of independent school and put they into the state sector , whose already overstretch resource will then be stretch even far , and everybody will suffer ? I thank my hon . friend for her important intervention . I be interested in how this money will flow back into the scottish system , if at all . the point , raise not just by I but by a number of hon . member in the various debate we have have on this issue , be that this will actually put a much great strain on the state system , and particularly the SEND system . that be my real concern here . face with the come price hike , many of the family I have describe will be force to choose between return to the overstretched state sector , as my hon . friend have just say , where their child ' s need may not be meet , and try to home - educate their child . this choice have wide - range implication not only for those individual family but for our economy and our society . my new clause 9 would force the Government to see through the implication of this damaging measure . I repeat that my party and I be oppose on principle to the imposition of vat on school fee , but if the Government insist on pursue this damaging and counterproductive measure , they should do so with their eye open . they should be clear about the damage this measure will do , they should be clear about how it will affect parent , and they should be particularly clear about how it will affect child with special educational need and disability . new clause 9 aim to ensure that by lay bare the impact of this measure on those family and child , who be already struggle with a broken SEND system . it would also require consideration of the additional child who will be come forward to apply for an ehcp , so that their parent may be spare the fee hike the Government be impose on they for try , as any parent would , to do the very good for their child . I receive an email from one parent who , when his child be in an excellent local state secondary school , be discourage from apply for an EHCP because of the challenge involve . he make the decision to send his child quite far away to an independent school where his child be do well . this gentleman email I to say : " well , I be now think that we might try to get an ehcp because , over a seven - year period , it will save we an awful lot of money if our son be eligible for one . " we know the EHCP system be overload and in crisis , so how much more pressure be go to be put on that system ? new clause 9 seek to measure that . I urge colleague on both side of the Committee to support the new clause , and I urge the Minister once again to rethink this ill thought through policy . rise — no doubt the whole House will join I in congratulate the next speaker on his engagement . how lucky you be . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] thank you very much , Madam Chair . I thank the entire House for its well wish . I rise to speak of how our reform will raise tax revenue from the wealthy and use that money to build prosperity for all , because that be at the heart of our govern spirit . build prosperity for all mean create prosperity for those who can not afford a decent life , no matter how hard they work , include non - graduates who can not earn enough to live and the young who can not earn enough to afford the home they need . today , we be proudly raise money from those who can well afford it to create good job and build home across our nation , to create an affordable life for everyone . I take exception to this idea of " the people who can well afford it . " a lot of parent who send their child to independent school can not really afford it — they scrimp and save . I do not think it be fair to characterise they that way . if they be force to remove their child from those school , it will not be the school that suffer , it will be their child , and an extra burden will be put on the state system . this be hardly raise money to help other people . in my constituency , private school fee be £ 15 , 000 per child per year . as a point of fact , almost no one in the bottom 80 % send their child to private school . overall , it be 6 % , while more than half of the top 1 % send their child there . while I appreciate the hon . Lady ' s point , it be not where the number be . the tax change we be debate today go to the heart of our govern philosophy that those with the broad shoulder who benefit the most can carry the heavy load . we all benefit from road to drive on , a healthy workforce and hospital when we need they . those who gain the most benefit the most , and they be the one we will ask the most from . I think we all , across the Committee , share the general principle of the hon . member ' s vision of a future , more prosperous UK . surely it make more sense , though , to encourage people to not use the state for provision , that way save the state money that can be use for other thing . the difference in our approach be that I do not believe in run down the state sector so people have to use the private sector to get a decent education . half of school do not have the specialist math teacher they need and a third of student fail their math gcse . we do have a difference in our governing philosophy . I join everyone else in congratulate the hon . member . he have talk about try to create a fairer society . do he want to see one in which the 100 , 000 child with special educational need who attend independent school cease to do so ? as he will remember , another great economist , like himself , Milton Friedman say , " if you want less of something , tax it . " I thank the right hon . member for his kind word . as he will know , the Government be fix thing for those who need special education — there be a huge amount we have to fix in this country — and he should remember the vat exemption for those with ehcp . for those who can not currently afford a decent life , the situation have become increasingly bleak . non - graduate and young people be lock out of the opportunity their parent have . before the 1980 , non - graduate could leave school and find good job with decent wage in their local factory . then come deindustrialisation that destroy mid - pay manufacturing job and lead to a divided nation , where non - graduate man have see their employment rate fall by 20 percentage point since then . today , twice as many young man as young woman be unemployed and we see the political shock reverberate around we . manufacture job have be destroy and replace by low pay and insecure service job that do not pay enough to live on . a couple with two child , both on average wage , do not currently earn enough for a decent living . on top of that , young people can not afford the home they need . around 40 % of my generation be live with their mum and dad . may I also extend my congratulation to my hon . friend on this wonderful day for he and his family ? he be make an excellent speech . on the specific point about housing , can my hon . friend say a little more about his vision ? [ interruption . ] he be come on to housing . can he speak , in particular , about the need of young family ? in many medium - sized town and city across the country , such as Reading , which I represent , there be a need for more affordable housing , both to buy and to rent . order . can we ensure that the intervention be clearly related to the debate in hand ? I have no doubt that the answer will be . by build the house we need , we get the revenue from the tax change we see today . indeed , that be the entire point of our programme , in addition to the planning reform that my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) refer to . from the tax revenue we raise from the measure we be debate and other , we will build a nation where every person have a stake in our society and a nation where work hard make a difference . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some progress . we be create good job through our measure in the green transition and the caring economy and yes , build home for the young to live in . our warm home plan will upgrade 300 , 000 home and create ten of thousand of good construction job . our expansion in early year childcare will see more woman in work and ten of thousand more job . our affordable home programme mean more home for young people , and for those who be strike down by hopelessness — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I assume that this be an appropriate point of order . be this what we be suppose to be discuss this afternoon ? I obviously fail to follow its relevance to vat on private school , which be what I think we be discuss , but I may be mistake . we be discuss private school and vat . I do not think that be an appropriate point of order , but , Dr Sandher , there be no doubt that you will bring your contribution very close to vat and school . I look forward to hear that . the point be that by end the tax break for the wealthy , we be able to raise the revenue that we need to invest in our nation ' s prosperity . that be the point of the programme that we be set out — programme such as " get Britain Working " , the affordable home programme , and the expansion of early year childcare . we need to raise that money from somewhere , which be why we be proud of the tax change that we be make . we be create a great nation where every single person and every single child can get a decent education and a great job and afford a decent home , and where we all know that work hard mean that we can achieve a decent life . we be raise tax revenue from the wealthy and ensure that the broad shoulder carry the heavy load , so that we can build a nation where every single person thrive . I rise to speak to new clause 8 , and to refer to clause 47 to 49 . clearly , just six or so month in , we will not have see the full effect of these measure , but we will have start to see they . we will have hear whether there be concern from faith leader , and what the early effect be on the number of application for EHCP plan and so on . it be also right that we have ask that , within 18 month of this Act be pass , we report back on the impact of the music and dance scheme , on which we know there have be a partial concession from the Government , but it remain a very sensitive area none the less . the Government say that they expect to raise £ 1 . 5 billion from this measure in 2025 - 26 , rise to £ 1 . 7 billion — I think — in 2029 - 30 . they expect 3 , 000 child to be displace in academic year 2024 - 25 ; 14 , 000 in academic year 2025 - 26 ; and 35 , 000 eventually . these be enormous number of child who could have their education disrupt . parent will be deny a choice that would be open to they in most other place in the world . it be also important that we look at the assumption behind these number from HMRC ' s policy paper — they be the exact assumption that may then come into question in that post - legislative review , which our new clause 8 call for . the Government first expect fee to rise by 10 % on average as a result of these measure . in fact , the actual mathematical cost of put 20 % vat on fee be , in fact , an increase in cost of about 15 % , by the time we net off the ability to reclaim cost on input . more significantly , we must put it in the context of everything else that be go on . this year , we be also see a business rate increase for about half of private school , an increase in contribution on the teacher ' pension scheme , and as with so many other sector , a massive hike in national insurance contribution . those be on top of any other normal cost pressure that other organisation might have . those be three thing , as well as the vat increase , that be direct transfer from the independent school sector to the Exchequer . although , technically speak , they may not be the measure that we be discuss today , they very much affect the ability of school to be able to absorb any of those price increase . to inform their conclusion on how many child will be displace in the private sector , the Government have , to an extent , rely on one statistic . they say that the number of private pupil have remain steady , despite a large real increase in average school fee since 2000 . consider price elasticity be a mathematically flawed approach . up until very recently , we use to talk about 7 % of child go to private school . now we say that it be 6 % , because the proportion have come down . but at a time when pupil number have be grow , other thing be equal , we would expect the number of child at private school to have be increase as the proportion stay roughly constant . moreover , it make no sense at all to look at gradual price increase over a 10 , 20 or 20 - plus year timeframe and to say we could conclude anything from that on the effect of an overnight price increase of 15 % , 20 % or more . the Government have come to the conclusion that we will end up with a long - run steady state of 37 , 000 few pupil in private education in the UK . the right hon . Gentleman be right to interrogate the Government ' s number . do he share my concern around SEND provision with child return to state school and the fact that teach assistant be not fully pay for in state school ? that will be an additional burden on those school . of course , there have be a huge increase in the number of teach assistant over the past 14 year , but the hon . member be right that there be particular issue for child with special educational need , which I will come on to . the Government estimate that there will be 37 , 000 few child in private school and of those , 35 , 000 will go to state school . what happen to the other ? some will be international student who will not come to this country , so that be a loss of export earning , and some will be home - school . the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) mention that , and we have not talk about it a great deal , but it be significant . the Government will say , " it ' s only 35 , 000 . " that be like a pretty substantially sized football stadium if we picture the number of child whose education will be change by the measure . they say , " Don ' t worry because it be only a small proportion of the total number in state school . " at the end of the day , the number be from a spreadsheet ; there be no guarantee that it will be 35 , 000 or any other particular number . in fact , it be rather odd that they come up with a single number at all . I would think that in any economic analysis like this we would at least have a range in which there be a central planning assumption , but also a reasonable bad - case scenario . more importantly , as my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) mention early , the effect will not be even . I have lose count of the number of parliamentary question I have put down try to get out of the Government where they think those 35 , 000 child will show up , because there be a huge difference in where they show up . it be worthless have empty place in primary school in inner London if that be not where the child will be displace to from private school . in broad term , there will not be that much of an impact on state primary school . there will be on state sixth form in London , but the big effect will be on individual place , particularly in 11 - to - 16 education . they include not only in county we might guess , but also Bristol , Bury , Surrey , Salford and a much long list besides . on why the propose review be so important , and we need to examine this in the post - legislative scrutiny , the Government say the revenue cost will be £ 270 million a year . that is , in other word , the cost of educate those extra 35 , 000 in the state sector . they go on to say that they have calculate the number base on the average spend per pupil in England in 2024 - 25 . that be wrong . it be a mistake to base it on the average pupil because we know child with special educational need will disproportionately have to transfer , and that will have a high cost to their education . moreover , we will get more family — we do not know how many — apply for an EHCP . the limiting case be where a child be in a private school right now and their parent be pay considerably more than the average place . they will find that they can not afford the extra 20 % , so they will apply for an EHCP and the child could get place back in the same school , with the entire cost now be pick up the state . those at an independent primary school in my constituency tell I that approximately 20 % of their student would be in receipt of an education , health and care plan if they be in the state system , but have no additional requirement in their educational establishment , and a number of West Dorset pupil receive six - figure support . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that more student go into the state system will increase cost for local council , and that independent school save the taxpayer money ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . I will come to exactly where the money to meet the cost will come from . we have talk about revenue cost , and the policy paper from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs cover that , but what about capital cost ? what if whole new place need to be create ? what if entire new year group need to be create — or even entire new school in some city or local authority area ? where be the allowance for the capital cost ? then there be , as the hon . Gentleman rightly say , the question of how the cost will be meet . the money follow the pupil , so a school will be reimburse for any pupil who present there — but after the census date , so it depend on exactly when the pupil turn up — but the question be : from where do the money come ? do it come out of central Treasury coffer , or will the Department for Education be tell , " no , we have give you your annual budget , so if more child come into the state sector , you must fund they " ? will council be reimburse additionally if more child come out of independent school and get ehcp , or will they also be tell that they have to absorb the cost of that , and meet it from their already stretch budget ? then there be the indirect cost , as trade union have point out , such as teacher be make redundant and , because it be not the turn of the academic year , potentially drop out of the profession altogether . the right hon . Gentleman have speak eloquently and at great length about the need of child with special educational need . do he regret the state of special educational need provision in this country , and that some people feel that they have to pay because they can not otherwise get the service that they would like for their child ? do he regret that legacy of the previous Government ? look , I want every child to have the good education available to they . when I be work at the Department for Education , I regard it as part of my job to ensure that nobody think , " I have to send my child to a private school " — but I would not have deny they the choice . state school improvement over that time will be one of the thing that drive the figure I mention from 7 % to 6 % . a huge amount of additional money be go into high need . the hon . member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) shake his head , but it be true ; that be in the Treasury ' s own figure . it be also true that demand have greatly increase . there be much more to do to ensure that we have the high - need system and resource that we all want . on the equality impact , it may surprise some people to learn that Independent Schools Council census figure show that the proportion of child from ethnic minority , and , as we have be discuss , the proportion of child with special educational need , be high at independent school than in the state sector . however , the really big equality issue relate to faith . I be pleased that the Treasury seem to have drop its early assertion that people of faith will not be disproportionately affect by the measure . that assertion can only have be base on the notion that most child of a religious faith be in state education anyway , and be mostly catholic or Church of England and in denominational or non - denominational school . however , we can not pretend for a moment that family of the Haredi jewish community , or who have child in muslim independent school , or who be of certain christian tradition , will not be affect more than other . to come to a close , this be a bad policy overall . education be a public good that simply should not be tax . that principle be observe by government of the left and right all but universally , right across the world . in this country , in education , there be no tax break ; in fact , family whose child go to independent school save the state money . independent school cater for some need , such as those meet through the music and dance scheme and the need of small faith group , that the state sector simply do not . in any case , parent be entitle to choose what they think will be right for their child , whatever the reason . this measure do not even do what we think get Labour mp excited about it . it do not hit its target , because not every parent with a child at a private school be rich , and believe it or not , in some of those school , include some of the fee - pay muslim or jewish Haredi school I mention , the cost of a place be less than the average cost at a state school . here be the big point : there be plenty of parent with child at state school who be wealthy . if Labour Members really want to soak the rich , to tax the wealthy , there be more efficient way of do so — and more honest way of do so . most importantly of all , this policy will have an adverse effect on state education , especially in place where secondary school be already or almost full . labour challenge we to say whose side we be on — do we stand with the 94 % , or with the 6 % ? we refuse to choose , because they be all child . there be no need to set one part of our education system against the other , and this tax will be bad for both . in my constituency , thousand of hard - work family diligently strive to give their child the good possible start in life . some choose our excellent state school , while other opt for independent school that they believe more closely meet their child ' s individual need . the crucial point be that until now , parent have enjoy the freedom to make that choice , rather than the decision be impose on they from on high . today , more than 1 , 000 pupil in Leicester East attend independent school , and their family be not the super - rich . these be ordinary , hard - work people who have scrimp , save and carefully budget . be the hon . Lady suggest that those people who send their child to state school do not budget ? we be talk about people who have often sacrifice luxury and go without to afford the education that they believe be good for their child . this be not the preserve of billionaire hedge fund manager ; we be talk about nurse , small business owner and tradespeople who have manage their finance meticulously to secure a particular educational path . they be the very work family who labour claim it would never tax . this new measure be fundamentally a tax on education , and the reality on the ground be deeply concern . as a result of labour ' s policy of slap vat on independent school fee , the careful financial planning of hard - work people in my constituency have be shatter . child be be force out of stable , nurture learn environment mid - term . their friendship and routine be be sever , not by parental choice or educational necessity , but by a Chancellor ' s whim . to add insult to injury , some family find themselves unable to secure a state school place locally , leave they in educational limbo as a result of the Chancellor ' s twisted game . I have already hear from one mother who , no long able to afford her daughter ' s independent school , can not find a suitable state alternative in her catchment area . as we have hear in the Chamber today , that be not an isolated case , but a troubling sign of the turbulence that this policy be create . what do the Government propose for the child who be catch in the crossfire of envy - drive politic ? labour ' s attempt to penalise perceive privilege have end up punish ordinary , aspirational family . meanwhile , the notion that this policy will somehow improve state education be fanciful at well . instead of support well standard and opportunity for all , this tax be about pit one group of parent against another — and what be bad , this be do without a proper impact assessment . instead of look at the real - world consequence — the strain on family , the sudden influx of pupil into our already stretch state school and the emotional turmoil place on child — the Government rush forward , blind by the politic of envy . I call on Ministers to think again . this be not about reform or fairness ; it be an attack on parental choice and on hard - work family who dare to hope for something different for their child . if Labour truly stand for work people , it must listen to their voice , look at the damage this will cause and scrap a measure that so clearly undermine the interest of child and family in Leicester East and beyond . the proposal to impose vat on independent school fee be a misguided approach that risk harm family , undermine educational freedom and fail to address the deep issue in our education system . let I start by acknowledge that our state education system be in dire need of funding . year of mismanagement by previous government have leave school struggle with inadequate resource , overwork teacher , and outdated and undersized facility . we must confront this crisis , and I fully agree that we need long - term sustainable funding to support our school , but introduce vat on independent school fee be not the answer . this measure will not impact elite institution or those at the very top of the income ladder . the wealthy family will simply absorb the cost . instead , it be middle - income family — parent who be save every penny , work multiple job and make sacrifice to help their child — who will be impact , as well as family whose child have special or complex need that can not be service in state school . small and more affordable independent school , which already operate on tight budget and cater to working family , will be at risk of closure . those closure will displace student into the already overstretch state sector , exacerbate the very challenge that this policy be suppose to address . independent school also contribute to their local community . they work in partnership with state school , offer share resource , facility , teach support and extracurricular activity . instead of impose vat , we should encourage more of these collaboration to strengthen both the state sector and the independent system . the Liberal Democrats believe in parental choice and in policy that unite , not divide , our community . we must focus on find equitable solution to fund our state school , but we must do so without undermine the choice and aspiration of family or the stability of our broad education system . family should have the freedom to choose the good educational path for their child without be penalise by the state . I urge the Government to work with all party to find a fair way to address the funding crisis in our school — one that do not come at the expense of parent , student and the principle of educational freedom . I rise to support new clause 8 in the name of the shadow Chancellor , because it will help ensure accountability on this policy , and ensure that its impact be fully understand . I want that because of the policy itself , but perhaps more because of how the Labour party have frame it , which I have find deeply concern . I know all party in this place be sometimes less than accurate in how we describe tax and spending , and about how it work for political advantage at different time , but the one thing out of all the thing that the new Labour Government have do that I find genuinely appalling be the vindictive way in which they have roll the ground for this measure by pitch schoolchild against schoolchild and parent against parent . I have genuinely find it really deplorable . we do not have hypothecate tax or spending in this country . money from road taxis go on thing other than road , and our national insurance payment do not get put into a pension pot . the Government know that , so to suggest that someone spend money on their own child without be tax be take money away from other child be completely and utterly wrong . the UK Government spend more than £ 1 trillion a year , and the Government can choose what they spend that money on . the suggestion that this money be go into a legally define pot of money for education , and that if it be not there , there would be less money available for education , be completely without merit , not least because if there be such a pot , the parent we be talk about would for many year have be contribute to it , not take money out of it . they would already have be subsidise mainstream education , accord to the Government ' s own argument . the idea that schoolchildren in mainstream education be go without directly because we do not have vat on private school — that all sort of parent for all sort of reason be choose to invest some of their money in their own child ' s education , but because we have not be tax that , child elsewhere be miss out on their education — be a deeply unpleasant and unnecessary way to frame this argument . imagine be a parent who — like people I know — have a modest start in life but then perhaps go on to medical school and become a gp . they be honest , hard - work people , and the fact that they be not be tax on that spend mean that they be now be make to feel that somehow that have be take away from the education of other child . that be completely wrong . it really be the bad sort of politic . it be exemplify by the despicable tweet from the Education Secretary , which be rightly and roundly criticise . a private school have a swimming pool do not in any way affect the availability of mental health support in other school , any more than spend extra money on pothole or defence or healthcare do . I reiterate that the Government have more than £ 1 trillion to spend every year on what they want , and way in which to raise that . what do this proposal say to the million of pupil and parent in mainstream education ? what thought and feeling do it foster ? it foster resentment and envy without any factual basis whatsoever . where do it end ? there be ten of thousand , if not hundred of thousand , of small business below the vat threshold that provide sport coach for pupil , music lesson and creative art session . be those parent who be not pay vat on the few quid that they might spend to send their child to a local football club stop other child have local school supply ? of course not , but that be the argument the Government be advance . many other will speak about other material impact of this proposal . I have four private school in my constituency — Frewen college , Battle Abbey school , Vinehall school and Claremont school — and I could speak at length about the impact that this measure will have on parent . whatever policy the Government have choose , I want to ensure that I come to the Chamber and call out the particular manner in which this be be justify by Labour MPs and the Labour Government , which they do not have to do . to pit different school pupil against each other in the way that the Education Secretary and Labour mp have do — there be absolutely no basis in fact whatsoever , and it be the bad possible way to have go about this policy . the Labour party have many proud tradition and can point to many noble moment . this be absolutely not one of they , and I hope Labour Members will reflect on that . it be difficult not to take this vindictive policy of tax education personally . that be not just because , like many parent in Surrey , we as a family have choose independent education for our child , or because as a conservative I support all our school and I want all our child to have the good start in life ; it be because lot of different data point show that the Runnymede and Weybridge constituency will be one of the most heavily punish area as a result of this policy . it be interesting to hear the Minister talk about the estimate number of child who will move out of the independent sector and into the state sector . I speak to the many independent school in my constituency pretty much all year round . they have meet I , and they tell I that they be desperately concerned about this policy . they have estimate that about 5 % to 10 % of child will need to move out . that be probably 500 to 1 , 000 child in my constituency , many of whom have already be disrupt by covid . many of they be study for their exam , have friendship group that will be disrupt , and will potentially be move to school that will be unable to provide the same course or exam specification that they be currently receive . I hear from state school that already face lot of pressure on place . as the Minister will have hear in my early intervention about admission and the empty space that we have in year nine to 11 , and the intake for the next academic year there be no space — we have lot of pressure . this policy will cause long - last damage to many child . I hope it will not , but in reality it will . it be clear , give the number and the full - throate support on the Government Benches , that this policy be go ahead and we will not be able to stop it . but will the Government , at very least , support our new clause 8 ? if they be so proud of this policy , which they clearly be , and so happy to defend what they see as the limited impact on young people , why be they afraid of a proper analysis ? I would ask they please to think again , but I would be at risk of mislead the House , because clearly they never think in the first place . the Liberal Democrats do not support impose vat on private school fee . we do not support treat independent school differently from other independent education provider for vat purpose , and that be why I wish to speak in favour of new clause 9 , table by my constituency neighbour and hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) . I thank she for table the amendment , which would require the Government to produce an impact assessment of the effect of the vat provision in the Bill on pupil with special educational need but who do not have an education , health and care plan . of the 615 , 000 child in private school in this country , almost 100 , 000 be be educate privately because they have special educational need but do not have an ehcp . the Lib Dems be glad that the legislation exempt from vat on school fee those privately educate pupil who have an ehcp that require the local authority to fund a private school place . that be a welcome step , but it do not protect those who do not have an ehcp from a steep rise in fee . the parent of many of those child will find that they can not afford the increase , throw the future of their child ' s education into doubt . moreover , there will be an increase in demand for local authority to issue ehcp state that the local authority must fund a private school place . local authority resource for special educational need and disability be already stretch to breaking point , and additional demand will be impossible to manage . the hon . Lady be right . the Government share the analysis that our special educational need provision in our state school be under massive pressure already and there be a shortage of capacity , notwithstanding the vast increase in expenditure since 2019 . however , the Government ' s policy , recognise that , be to tax and therefore deter and reduce expenditure on child with special educational need out of people ' s private pocket . it do not make any sense , do it ? I trust that that mean the Liberal Democrats can look to the right hon . gentleman to support our new clause today , because the inevitable result of the legislation , if unamended , will be thousand of child with SEND force into the state sector all at once , which will be enormously disruptive , and not just for they but for pupil already in the state sector . it will be potentially traumatic for those child , as well as be immensely difficult for the state school to manage . new clause 9 would protect both the child and the school affect by the impact of these measure — the child who have special educational need but do not yet have an ehcp , as well as the child of family who have apply for one . however , it be not just child with SEND who will be affect . the parent of many thousand of other child across the country will find that they can no long afford to keep they in their current school , and those child will experience enormous disruption to their education as they be force to change school . many will face the upheaval of be separate from their friend and a familiar environment . the Government should reflect carefully on whether the benefit of this policy that they be intent on pursue be worth the damage cause to these child ' s education and wellbeing . the influx will not be evenly distribute . in my constituency of Richmond Park , more than 45 % of child attend a fee - pay private school . in common with other part of London , demand for state primary place be down , so young child will be easily accommodate , but secondary school be experience great pressure for place and a rise in request for in - year admission will be difficult to meet . there may only be a small proportion of child whose parent be no long able to meet the fee , but a drop in headcount at private school could see they close because they become unviable . that mean that the effect of child need to transfer out of independent school and into the state sector could be much great than be currently forecast . I want to reflect on what the shadow spokesperson , the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) , and other have say about the music and dance scheme . the Royal Ballet school at White Lodge in the middle of Richmond park in my constituency be a world - lead ballet school , and it have express great reservation to I about the effect of this policy , and I would very much like the Government to reflect on that . if the survey do by the Times of private school parent early this year be accurate , and 25 % of parent have to withdraw their child from private education due to the Government ' s proposal , that could have a huge impact on child in community such as mine across the country . the Government propose that their new tax treatment should be apply only to the provision of private schooling , but tax some form of education and not other will almost inevitably create loophole . creative accountant will find way of deliver education service that fall outside the vat legislation while other education provider that the Government do not intend to tax will unwittingly find themselves catch up in it . the risk of these distortion increase if legislation be hastily frame with insufficient time for scrutiny . between parent who can not afford to pay their child ' s fee and school that can not keep their door open , the state will need to find space and resource for an influx of new student . the Liberal Democrats be oppose to the Government ' s plan to impose vat on private school fee because we believe it be wrong to tax education . impose this increase in fee will have a disproportionate impact on child with SEND , which will create not just hardship for those child and their parent but enormous difficulty for the local authority and state school that will be require to provide alternative schooling . that be why I join the call of my colleague to urge the Government to back new clause 9 . we come to the final Back - Bench contribution , no doubt save the good till last . I be a Hertfordshire county councillor , and it be that authority that will have to pick up the piece if parent can not afford the vat on private school or if private school close . a bit like in the farming debate , I have a specific example from my constituency that tear down the Government ' s argument on add vat to private school fee . Turnford be a secondary school in my constituency in decline . academic standard and behaviour be poor and the quality of teaching be inconsistent , lead to student become demotivate and achieve less than the national expectation . staff suffer from low morale and there be significant recruitment challenge . the school building , on a poorly lay - out site , be dilapidate . but thank to a unique partnership with Haileybury , an independent school in my constituency , the tide begin to turn . in 2015 the school be relaunche as Haileybury Turnford academy , with Haileybury as the sole sponsor . a generous annual improvement grant be establish worth £ 200 , 000 a year ; that have go on for about five year , so more than £ 1 million have go directly into that state school in my constituency . that have enable Turnford to recruit much - need staff and retain high - quality specialist teacher . Haileybury also give additional financial support for Turnford ' s SEN student and provide opportunity for a wide breadth of academic and extracurricular activity , such as support programme for gifted and talented pupil . because of that partnership between state and private school , academic standard have be transform . we have have new classroom construct , and in 2022 Haileybury Turnford be judge by Ofsted to be " good " for the first time in the school ' s history . the hon . Member seem to be make the case that he have be see a pilot for this national policy in his own constituency , with high fee , which presumably fund that £ 200 , 000 a year grant to the state school , pay by the attendee of the private school . his example therefore make the case for exactly the Government ' s policy on a wide scale . I thank the hon . member . if he just wait for the next part of my speech , he may get the answer to his intervention . the Government ' s plan will put all that at risk . notably , Haileybury be plan to absorb as much of the financial hit as it can , rather than place the extra burden on parent . to do so , it must look at reduce expenditure and therefore its ability to offer financial support to Haileybury Turnford , painfully contradict the Government ' s argument that their policy will result in more spending on state school pupil . it be not just about money ; great financial pressure on Haileybury will inevitably lead to staff have less time and resource available to share with Turnford , and few opportunity for state school student at Haileybury Turnford as a result . minister think that their policy will impact only the rich , but for nearly a decade a genuinely work - class community in my constituency have benefit from a state school and an independent school work together , which be exactly the kind of partnership that we should be encouraging . we should not be encourage the politic of envy . sadly , the change that the Government be introduce through the Bill will bring all that to an end . let I begin by thank all hon . member for their contribution . I will take a few moment to respond to some of the point raise and then to set out the Government ' s view on the propose new clause . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) , address new clause 8 , which be table by the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) . I will come to the new clause in a moment , but for the avoidance of doubt let I reassure the shadow Minister that high education and teach English as a foreign language be both exempt from and not affect by this policy . I also reassure he that HMRC stand ready to support school . it have already publish bespoke guidance for school , run webinar , update registration system and put additional resource in place to process application . in principle , what be the distinction between full - time private schooling and private tuition , from the point of view of what it be right to tax ? will he guarantee that no tax will be put on private tuition ? if the right hon . Gentleman be refer to the comment I just make in response to the shadow Minister ' s remark , teach English as a foreign language and high education be exempt from the provision of the Bill . no , I mean family who send their child once or twice a week for an hour for academic study or something extra - curricular . why should that be tax exempt , when if it be do for all the hour in the school week , it be not ? in design the Bill and make sure that it be clear , we decide to focus on those school that provide full - time education . follow feedback during the consultation on the Bill , we decide to clarify some of the treatment , such as for nursery , which I mention early , to ensure that they be treat appropriately . if they be fully stand - alone nursery , they be not cover . in the original drafting of the legislation , we refer to nursery that wholly comprise child below the compulsory school age . we change that to wholly or almost wholly to ensure that have , for example , one pupil over compulsory school age would not trip a nursery into be cover . rise — I be go to make some progress , because I will come to the right hon . Gentleman ' s point in a moment , and I want to mention the point make by other hon . member in the debate . we hear from the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) and for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) . yet again from the Liberal Democrat Front Bench , we see a party that be happy to support our extra investment in education for all child , but that can not bring itself to support the measure that we put in place to help pay for that investment in education . we have hear this point time and again from the Labour Benches . I want to say , one more time , that the Liberal Democrats put forward a fully cost programme in our 2024 general election manifesto , which have a range of tax - raise measure that would have pay for the change we propose and do not include vat on school fee , for all the reason the Minister have hear today . the reason why the Liberal Democrats hear this time and again from the Government Benches be that , time and again , they want all the benefit of investment without have to pay for it . that be a pattern that we see again and again in this Chamber . rise — I be go to make some progress . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) and for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) for their comment . I feel that I be duty bind to add my congratulation to my hon . friend for Loughborough on his engagement . the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) be not in his place — sorry , he be at the Bar . perhaps he could come and take a seat on the Benches . he ask an important question to try to get some clarity about the vat treatment of combine fee that cover school meal , transport and other service . I hope that my early answer give he some reassurance on that . I reiterate that I can not provide advice for individual school , but it be worth emphasise that the general principle be that if a school supply a package of education for a single fee , that will normally be a single supply for vat . that package could include a number of other element such as transport or meal , alongside the main element of education . if it be a single supply , it be a single vat liability . however , where a school supply education and also supply other element for a separate fee , that will normally be treat as a separate supply . for example , if a school offer school meal alongside the education for a separate charge , those will normally be two different supply , and they may have different vat liability . although the education would be subject to the standard rate of vat , the school meal may be exempt , if they meet the condition . I be grateful for the Minister ' s clarification on that point ; I think he be hit towards it . the school itself have everything group into one fee , which include the transport , schooling and food . its contention , therefore , be that it will have to break that all out , which mean it will have to deal with all the accounting issue on top of this . it be just another burden to think about . I wonder whether the Treasury have think about that and whether there will be further guidance — there be literally just one line in a piece of write guidance put out by the Treasury . be there anywhere the school can raise this issue to work through the exact advice it need ? I appreciate that the Minister can not give that advice directly to the school from the Dispatch Box . the way that we treat private school fee and the other charge that private school may levy have to be consistent with the vat principle more broadly , which be why I have try to explain how the supply of education and the supply of other element would interact with the vat system more widely . I will hold back from give specific advice about that individual school , but I would encourage it to contact HMRC to get advice about its specific registration . if the school staff read what I have just say in Hansard , I hope they will see some information that will help they to understand how to approach this issue . as ever , the Minister be be very gracious in give way . if someone be to establish a new educational establishment provide entirely modular educational element that people could choose between , would that be subject to vat , individually or collectively , or not ? the right hon . Gentleman be tempt I into hypothetical and into try to give advice to a school that do not yet exist — I will hold back from that , because I think the principle of our Bill be very clear on what vat at the standard rate be apply to and what can be make exempt , in line with the exist rule on vat . we hear several time from the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) . I assure he that the Government costing have , of course , be fully scrutinise and certify by the Office for Budget Responsibility . he also speak about capital funding . obviously , pupil number fluctuate for a number of reason . the Government have already announce more than £ 700 million to support local authority over this academic year and the next to provide place in new school and expand exist school . I do note , however , that in response to an intervention by my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) , the right hon . Gentleman seem implicitly to admit to his Government ' s failure to improve high - need education in the state sector , which be precisely why our measure today be so important . first , the Minister know I say no such thing . I speak about the additional investment that have go into the high - need budget under the previous Government , particularly since 2019 , and say that there be more to do . since I be on my foot , can I ask he to expand on what he just say about capital ? what he have just speak about be capital for place that be already plan , but what if a lot more child present in some place ? have he budget for that capital ? do he guarantee that whatever capital go to the DFE will be on top of the exist capital budget ? as I say to the right hon . Gentleman , pupil number in school fluctuate regularly for a number of reason , and the Department for Education , and indeed the devolve government , already work with local authority to identify pressure and take action where necessary . as I say in my early remark to he , the Government already provide capital funding through the basic need grant to support local authority in England to provide school place , and the Government have already announce £ 700 million over this academic year and the next , which can be use to provide place in new school and to expand exist place . finally , the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) raise the motivation behind our policy , which other Opposition Members also speak to . let I be clear on this : our decision to fix the public finance to fund public service , include education , mean that difficult decision have to be take . our choice to end the vat exemption for private school fee have be a difficult but necessary decision that will secure additional funding , which will help to deliver on our commitment to improve education for all . I do not talk about motivation in my speech ; I speak about how the Minister have frame it . do he accept that with a general taxation pot , where all the money go into one amount that be dole out as the Government see fit , there be absolutely no basis for say that child in the state sector have less because of the exemption of vat for private school ? the two thing be totally unconnected in the Budget and the financing of the Government . what be connect be that if we want to fund public service and fix the public finance , we have to take difficult decision . this be one of those difficult decision we be take today : a difficult but necessary decision to restore fiscal responsibility after the mess we inherit from the Conservative party and to fund our public service . it be necessary to take those decision , so that we can get that funding into education for all . if the hon . Gentleman do not want to take that decision , he be , in effect , deny the choice that we be make about fund public service . I will now make some progress to address the new clause table by Opposition Front Benchers . new clause 8 , which be table by the right hon . member for Central Devon , would require the Government to make a statement to Parliament about the impact of remove the vat exemption for private school fee within six month of the Act be pass . it state that it " must include detail of the impact on … pupil with special educational need and disability … small rural school , and … faith school . " it would require the Government to " make a statement about the impact of the removal of the exemption on school that take part in the music and dance scheme " within 18 month of the Act be pass . I want to make it clear that in develop this policy , the Government carefully consider the impact it would have , include the impact it would have on pupil with special educational need and disability , rural and urban school , faith school , and school that take part in the music and dance scheme . as I say before , the Government consider a wide range of representation , include over 17 , 000 consultation response , before finalise the policy design . the Government set out the expect impact of the measure in a tax information and impact note publish at autumn Budget 2024 in the usual way . I set out early today how the Government will ensure that those child with an EHCP , or its equivalent in other nation , will not be subject to vat on any private school fee . I be not clear whether the right hon . Gentleman ' s new clause , when it refer to " pupil with special educational need and disability " refer to only those in the private sector , or whether he intend the new clause to consider also the 1 million or more pupil with SEND in the state system . if it be the latter , I be sure he will welcome the extra £ 1 billion for high - need funding next year that we have be able to announce thank to our decision on tax policy , include that which we be debate today . in addition , base on the evidence provide , it be not apparent that small faith school will be more affect by this policy than other school . the hon . member for Twickenham , the Front Bench spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats , table new clause 9 . I think I have address most of those point already in my remark today . to conclude , I hope I have be able to reassure member that the new clause be not necessary , for the reason I have set out . I therefore urge the Committee to reject new clause 8 and 9 . question put , that the clause stand part of the Bill . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Gerald Jones Martin McCluskey Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Paul Paul Holmes the Committee divide : Ayes 338 , Noes 170 . question accordingly agree to . clause 47 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 48 - charge on pre - pay private school fee question put , that the clause stand part of the Bill . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Martin McCluskey Gerald Jones Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Paul Paul Holmes the Committee divide : Ayes 332 , Noes 170 . question accordingly agree to . clause 48 order to stand part of the Bill . clause 49 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 8 - statement on charge vat on private school fee " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of this Act be pass , make a statement to Parliament about the removal of the exemption for private school fee introduce by section 47 of this Act , and other change to private school fee introduce by section 48 and 49 of this Act . ( 2 ) the statement under subsection ( 1 ) must include detail of the impact on — ( a ) pupil with special educational need and disability , ( b ) small rural school , and ( c ) faith school . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , within 18 month of this Act be pass , make a statement about the impact of the removal of the exemption on school that take part in the music and dance scheme . " — ( Mel Stride . ) this new clause require the Secretary of State to make a statement about the impact of charge vat on private school fee . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Mims Davies Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Paul Paul Holmes Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Gerald Jones Martin McCluskey the Committee divide : Ayes 167 , Noes 329 . question accordingly negative . clause 50 - increase rate for additional dwelling : transaction before 1 April 2025 Question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider : clause 51 to 53 stand part . new clause 6 — Sections 50 and 51 : impact on private rental sector — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of this Act be pass , publish an assessment of the impact of the change introduce by section 50 and 51 of this Act on the private rental sector in England and Northern Ireland . ( 2 ) the assessment in subsection ( 1 ) must consider — ( a ) the effect of the provision of section 50 and 51 of this Act on the cost of private rent in each region within England and in Northern Ireland , ( b ) the effect of the provision of section 50 and 51 of this Act on the supply of private rental property in each region within England and Northern Ireland , ( c ) any other implication of the change introduce by section 50 and 51 of this Act . " this new clause require the Chancellor to review the impact increase rate of stamp duty for additional dwelling be have on the private rental sector in England and Northern Ireland . new clause 7 — Review of effect of section 50 and 51 on housing market — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of this Act be pass , publish an assessment of the impact of the change introduce by section 50 and 51 of this Act , on the housing market in England and Northern Ireland . ( 2 ) the assessment in subsection ( 1 ) must consider — ( a ) the effect of the provision of section 50 and 51 of this Act on the demand for house in each region within England and Northern Ireland , and ( b ) the implication for the housing market of the provision of section 50 and 51 of this Act . " this new clause require the Chancellor to review the impact increase rate of stamp duty for additional dwelling be have on the housing market in England and Northern Ireland . this be a Budget to fix the foundation of the economy and deliver change by protect work people , fix the NHS and rebuild Britain . the Government be achieve this by take difficult decision on tax , spending and welfare to repair the public finance and increase investment in public service and the economy , to rebuild Britain and unlock long - term growth . this Finance Bill deliver on a number of the Government ' s priority for tax reform , prioritise stability for business make investment decision and ensure fairness and sustainability in the long term . we will discuss the full range of manifesto commitment deliver in this Bill throughout its passage , but today , I will talk about an area in which the Government have decide to go far than our manifesto commitment . the clause we be debate increase the high rate of stamp duty land tax on purchase of additional dwelling by individual and of dwelling by company from three percentage point above the main residential rate of SDLT to five percentage point . these clause also increase the single rate of SDLT payable by company and other non - natural person when purchase dwelling worth more than £ 500 , 000 from 15 % to 17 % . they will support home ownership by ensure that those look to move house or purchase their first property have a great advantage over second home buyer , landlord and company purchase dwelling . these change will raise £ 310 million per year by 2029 - 30 , which will be use to support the Government ' s first step and other priority . one of our manifesto commitment be to increase the non - resident SDLT surcharge by one percentage point . the Government have decide to go far than that commitment and increase the high rate of SDLT , know as high rate for additional dwelling . this will raise more money than the manifesto policy , help to restore economic stability and address the £ 22 billion - worth of unfunded pressure , as well as support delivery of the Government ' s first step . increase the high rate for additional dwelling will also go far to rebalance the housing market in favour of first - time buyer and those move house . the Minister mention first - time buyer . however , the change to stamp duty be likely to affect they , because they be now be bring into pay stamp duty . how do that help first - time buyer to realise their aspiration of get into the housing market ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman very confidently that the thing that will help first - time buyer in this country most be build more house . his government absolutely fail to do that , but we will be do it . return to the Bill , we estimate that approximately half of those pay the non - resident surcharge will also pay the high rate for additional dwelling . this mean that a non - resident purchase an additional residential property worth £ 300 , 000 now pay £ 23 , 500 as a result of the change in rate , compare with £ 17 , 500 before the change , an increase of £ 6 , 000 . this compare with a UK - resident purchaser buy their first home , who pay no SDLT , and a UK - resident home mover , who currently pay £ 2 , 500 . this change therefore improve the comparative advantage of UK - resident home mover and first - time buyer — as the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) might be pleased to know — while ensure that no additional barrier be face by those come to the UK and buy their first or only home . those buy an additional property before they can sell their main residence will be liable for the high rate for additional dwelling . however , this will be refund if the previous main residence be sell within three year of the purchase of a new main residence , or long if there be exceptional circumstance , such as delay in clad remuneration . this ensure that only those who be genuinely liable for high rate will be require to pay they . clause 50 increase the high rate of SDLT on the purchase of additional dwelling by individual and dwelling by company from three percentage point above the main residential rate of SDLT to five percentage point . this apply to transaction with an effective date on or after 30 October this year and before 1 April next year . do the Minister agree that this Government ' s decision to raise stamp duty in such a manner be vital for tackle the plague of second home that we have see in community such as Cornwall ? this be something I have see in my own constituency , so I know what my hon . friend be reference . it be our intention to tackle that , but we have have to make these decision because of our economic inheritance when we get into government , which the conservative party obviously hide during the election . we have have to make some difficult decision , and this be how we plan to fix the foundation of our economy . transitional rule apply for transaction where contract be exchange before 31 October 2024 , but which complete on or after that day . this mean that buyer who legally commit to buy their property before or on the day the rate change be announce will not have to pay more tax than they expect to pay . clause 51 make the same rate increase as clause 50 , but apply to land transaction with an effective date on or after 1 April 2025 . these two clause will provide an advantage for first - time buyer and those move home , help to support home ownership . the OBR - certify costing estimate that increase the high rate for additional dwelling by 2 percentage point be expect to result in 130 , 000 additional transaction over the next five year by first - time buyer and other people buy a primary residence . I be grateful to the Minister for give way , but I be surprised she have not declare her interest because I believe she be herself a landlord . she presumably own another property , so to cast aspersion on people who do as some kind of plague be , I think , a little unfair . I assume from this measure that the Minister would expect there to be some impact on the rental market . this be design to deter people from become landlord . give that 90 - odd per cent of our rental property in the UK be own by people who have two or few property , what be the scale of the impact she be expect ? how many people be likely to either exit be a landlord or , particularly in somewhere like London , not bother be a landlord at all ? what will be the wide impact give that in the capital , such as where she represent , lot of people have no option but to rent , because they be unable to accumulate the deposit require to buy a property at an inflated value ? be we go to see few rental property in the capital ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . I be a landlord , and that be absolutely declare in my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . if I be mean to declare it for the purpose of this debate , I do apologise , but it be reference very clearly in my entry . I would say that , as a landlord , I be very happy to pay extra tax if it be necessary to fix the foundation of our economy . I do not agree with the right hon . Gentleman ' s assessment of London . I think we be more resilient than that , especially in Camden , and I think we will be fine . clause 50 and 51 will provide an advantage for first - time buyer and those move home , and it will help to support home ownership . the OBR - certify costing estimate that increase the high rate for additional dwelling by 2 percentage point be expect to result in 130 , 000 additional transaction over the next five year by first - time buyer and other buy a primary residence . I hope that address some of the concern of Conservative Members . clause 52 introduce special transitional rule to ensure no additional tax be payable for land transaction substantially perform before 1 April 2025 . in most case , SDLT be charge at the point of completion in the property - buying process . in some case , however , such as where the buyer have perform their purchase by pay for the property or take possession of it , the tax be chargeable at that early point . the clause in question ensure that buyer who have perform their transaction will not pay more tax as a result of the change in rate bring about by clause 50 and 51 when they complete their purchase . clause 53 increase from 15 % to 17 % the single rate of SDLT payable by company and other non - natural person when purchase dwelling worth more than £ 500 , 000 . the single rate of SDLT be introduce alongside the annual tax on envelop dwelling to deter the practice of buy and own UK residential property within a corporate wrapper by increase the rate company pay . the single rate apply where company and other non - natural person buy a dwelling for more than £ 500 , 000 that they do not intend to use for a relievable purpose such as rent the property or develop it . increase the single rate keep it align with the high rate of tax pay on purchase of the most expensive residential property , so that the tax remain effective as a deterrent to enveloping . in summary , increase the high rate of SDLT will ensure that those look to move house or purchase their first property have a great advantage over second home buyer , landlord , and company purchase dwelling . the measure will raise more money than the manifesto policy , and go far to rebalance the housing market . the change will raise £ 310 million per year by 2029 - 30 , which will be use to support the Government ' s first step and other priority . rise — I have already give way once to the hon . gentleman . we turn to the important issue of taxis on residential property , and another set of tax rise from this tax - raise Labour Government . I will speak to clause 50 to 53 , and new clause 6 and 7 . over 14 year in government we deliver 2 . 5 million additional home . our manifesto pledge to build 1 million home in the course of the last Parliament be meet , and we deliver on our commitment to build the home that people need for a more secure future . the Bill introduce measure that dampen the housing market , increase pressure on housing supply , and reduce labour mobility . the Government talk about help renter , but expert warn that these measure could increase rent , and they do nothing for those who can not afford to buy their own home . do the hon . Gentleman agree that reduce the prevalence of second home be a crucial part of ensure that people can afford to live and work in the community they be from ? indeed , and represent an area with some of the most attractive coastline in the country , I certainly recognise and share those concern . there have be warn that the measure could make that issue bad . People also need to be able to rent in those area , and if local people who need to work where the job be have to move from long - term let to short - term , that do nothing to help . the point be valid . the Government be try to get more property for people to buy , but at the same time they be change back the threshold for first - time buyer . those first - time buyer will be stifle when they want to buy a house because they will have to pay more tax . introduce both measure simultaneously seem to cause a rub . do my hon . friend agree ? I do . this be just another example of the impact of the Bill . the impact assessment , such as they be , be incredibly thin and do not get into the detail of the measure and the complication that arise . they be , I would say , wholly inadequate . under clause 50 to 53 , taxis on property purchase will , as the Minister say , go up by £ 310 million . clause 50 and 51 increase the rate for additional dwelling , such as buy - to - let and residential property , from 3 % to 5 % . nationwide estimate that that could bring extra cost of £ 4 , 000 on the purchase of a typical rental home . at least clause 52 ensure that if transaction have be substantially perform before the increase come in , no additional tax will be charge . clause 53 amend the single rate on purchase by company of dwelling for more than £ 500 , 000 . let we not forget that the Government have also choose not to renew the nil - rate stamp duty threshold , which be currently £ 250 , 000 but will halve to £ 125 , 000 — I do not think the Economic Secretary to the Treasury mention that . as I say , expert have warn that the change could have damaging effect on the rental market , make it less attractive to provide home for private rent ; rent could increase as a result of the limited supply . every hon . Member will know from their constituency the huge demand for rental property . accord to Zoopla , on average around 21 people be chase every property that be put up for rent . this tax will do nothing to encourage the supply of new , decent , rent housing . I hope that the shadow Minister share my surprise at the Minister agree to pay the stamp duty retrospectively on her flat . let we hope that the cheque make its way to HMRC . when stamp duty reach penal rate , it not only divert people away from become landlord , but mean they may operate differently . be there not a strong possibility that we might see a large number of property in place such as London own by foreign corporation that be domicile in other jurisdiction ? transfer of those property could take place by transfer the corporation ' s ownership in the Isle of Man or the Caymans or somewhere like that . that would mean that no stamp duty be payable at all on the transfer of the property . if that proliferate , we might find that large number of property in the UK be own by overseas entity , precisely because of the penal taxation here . my right hon . friend make an interesting point , and I bow to his knowledge of the situation in London , which be far great than mine . our new clause be about review the impact of the measure , partly so that if we see such activity , which would go against the Government ' s objective and weaken the rental market , action could be take . I hope that the Government will look at the evidence . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have also criticise the change , state : " it again reduce transaction , increase again the bias in favour of owner occupation , and against renting , and at least part of the consequence will be to reduce the supply of rental housing and so increase rent . " the National Residential Landlords Association have say that the tax change in the Budget will make it less attractive to provide home for private rent . it have warn that the measure will exacerbate the shortfall that member will all be familiar with , and an assessment it commission a couple of year ago show that increase the rate to 5 % could lead to the loss of more than 500 , 000 private rent home over 10 year . Norfolk county council , which cover the area that the shadow Minister represent , have a housing waiting list of 1 , 341 home seek . that be up 400 since he be elect in 2019 . if the new clause be about review the impact of action , perhaps he could take a moment to review the impact of the last Government ' s action , which see the housing waiting list increase in his constituency ? I be grateful for the hon . member ' s interest in my constituency . he intervene on I early to talk about education in North West Norfolk . the number be from the House of Commons Library . I do not doubt the figure . I simply note that King ' s Lynn and West Norfolk borough council , which be the council for my constituency , have meet the housing need target it be set . thousand of home be be build in and around King ' s Lynn , which will be a mixture of tenure — to rent and to buy . one of the big blocker be that the Government have not yet approve scheme that the previous Government be commit to — scheme for the road and infrastructure need to bring that housing online . I hope that the Minister will take that up with her colleague , because if the Government be to meet their target of building 1 . 5 million home , they need council to deliver . that mean fund the infrastructure . I be grateful to the hon . member for enable I to make that point . we be concerned about the increase cost of private rent and a decrease supply of rental property due to this late tax increase . new clause 6 would require the Chancellor to publish an assessment of the impact of the increase stamp duty rate on the private rental sector within six month of the Bill pass into law . it be important to have transparency . it be not controversial to say that we need more house — member on both side of the House agree — but take Leicester , where new housing target have be reduce by 31 % . we will now have an exodus of people offer rental residence . will that not compound the problem acutely ? we will not have the number of home . the target have drop in Leicester , but we will have more people need to rent . the homelessness rate could go up , because people be leave the market . the Government need to think carefully about that . the new clause would give transparency on whether there be a problem . my hon . friend draw attention to the unintended consequence of the stamp duty measure . I wonder how much involvement the Deputy Prime Minister and her Department have in draw it up , or whether it be draw up in the Treasury just to get a line into the Red Book and fill out the Government ' s spending plan . new clause 7 would require the Chancellor to publish an assessment of the impact that increase rate for additional dwelling be have on the housing market as a whole , and in particular on the demand for home in England and Northern Ireland . Pegasus Insight have report that nearly 20 % of landlord across England and Wales sell home in the last 12 month , significantly more than the 8 % who purchase property in that period . we see increase rent as a result . the late figure from the Office for National Statistics show average UK private rent increase by 8 . 7 % in the 12 month to October . when the cost of living be high and rent be increase , why be the Government take step that could make matter bad for our constituent ? on the point make by the hon . member for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) , clause 50 to 53 may increase the chance of property switch from long - term to short - term let , which be a concern in my constituency . we need a balance of property — some that people can rent and those that people can buy — so that people can live and work in the area where they grow up . the Government ' s state policy objective for the stamp duty measure be to disincentivise the acquisition of buy - to - let property and free up housing stock for main and first - time buyer , but nowhere in their impact note be the private rental sector mention . my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) ask the Minister what impact she think the change could have , and what modelling have be do of the effect on the rental market ; I be afraid that answer come there none . hopefully she will have have some inspiration by the time she wind up the debate and can give some answer , because the impact note do not have any information on that point . I find that surprising . once again , that be why it be essential that we review these measure to see what the real - world impact be on the rental market . our new clause would enable we to do just that . encourage home ownership and help first - time buyer to get on the housing ladder be the right thing to do . however , that should not come at the expense of the private rental sector . as the shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , put it in the Budget debate , activity in the housing market will be dampen and people will be discourage from downsize , which will put pressure on housing supply and labour mobility . I be proud that while in government , the Conservatives help more people get on to the housing ladder through scheme such as First Homes , share ownership , right to buy and the lifetime individual saving account , and double the threshold for stamp duty . however , with only one in eight renter able to afford to purchase a home in the area where they live , renting be the only viable option for many . what be the Minister ' s response to those who say that increase stamp duty will reduce the supply of rental housing , and that rent will increase as a result ? I must briefly address the structural tax issue that the clause create . I be grateful to the Chartered Institute of Taxation for the discussion that we have have . there be now a top residential rate of 19 % , compare with a top rate of 5 % for purchase of a non - residential or mixed property , so taxpayer may be incentivise to argue that the property that they be buy be non - residential or mixed - use — for example , it may have a paddock that they would use — to take advantage of the low rate . a number of those case have come to the first - tier tribunal and high court . I would be grateful if the Minister address the risk that she see there , and tell we what HMRC have advise she and whether increase compliance cost will arise as a result of the divergence . the hon . Gentleman have make an interesting point about people who may wish to claim that they have a paddock at the back of their house . do he have any number to back that up ? if he do , I would be really interested to know they . I be rack my brain , think of how many home in Stoke - on - Trent Central could claim that they have a paddock that allow mixed - use tenure . he may have that information to hand ; I do not . I be sure that Stoke - on - Trent be a great place , but not everyone live there . as I say , a number of such case have go to the first - tier tribunal , so the hon . member can probably look that information up or ask the House of Commons Library . the point be that none of that information be in the impact note that the Government have provide on a measure that they be bring forward . the onus be on the Government to give the information to Parliament , and they have fail to do so in this case . we share the concern of expert about the impact that the increase will have on the private rental sector and the wide housing market . the Government have ambitious plan for house building , which we have mention , but debate on their propose change to the planning system to enable that be for another day . this afternoon , our focus be on whether people look to rent will find that hard to do as a result of the measure that the Government be introduce , with reduced supply and high cost . our new clause would make the Government publish an assessment so that we can tell . I declare that I be a landlord , and I happily pay the 3 % stamp duty that I be require to pay , introduce by the Conservatives when they be in government . for too long the dream of homeownership have be unachievable for young people in my constituency . property be snap up by landlord , and that be even more acutely feel in our coastal town , where so many property be lock up for large part of the year and use as holiday home , sometimes for only a few week . I be from Cornwall . the point be make early that this change will help we . some of our coastal village be 50 % second home . in Cornwall , 5 % of our house be second home . this change can do nothing but good in Cornwall . we do not have the long - term let that the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) talk about dissuade . we have short - term let and second home . I welcome this measure . increase rate of stamp duty land tax for second property to 5 % more than those buy their home will free up housing stock for first - time buyer , and hopefully stop price continue to skyrocket . before I come to this place , I be a property solicitor in a high street firm in my constituency . part of the reason I love that job be that I get to be part of so many brilliant project that transform community , but I be always so happy when I help first - time buyer who would come through my door , proud that they have save up and be able to buy their first home . they would tell I their plan for the future . we would overcome mountain of paperwork . I love be part of the moment when they get the key to their first home , and they be finally homeowner . I get to know my client well . each new homeowner would talk to I about how they would become part of their local community — support the local football club , or work at local business , hospital and school . they be plan to have kid who would go to local school and shop in the town centre . but the long I work in that role , the few first - time buyer come into my office . become a homeowner become out of reach for most young people . there be already half a million few young homeowner than in 2010 . million be stick in expensive , poor quality and insecure rent housing . the average cost of a home be over 10 time the average income of my constituent . the conservative party leave a legacy of the most acute housing emergency in live memory . this government could have ignore it and let more people miss out on become homeowner , but they decide to act and boost the supply of affordable home . in addition , this policy will free up more housing stock for first - time buyer . for those who can afford the luxury of a second home , it will bring much - need income into the Treasury in the form of an increase one - off tax — stamp duty land tax — that will help to pay for the much - need improvement in health and education that this Government promise to deliver . the status quo be unacceptable . our housing market be not a fair market , and I be glad that this policy will help to remedy that . it will ensure that those buy property as investment pay a fair level of tax at the start , so I urge all member to vote for this important change . we Liberal Democrats have long campaign against what have become , in some place , the scourge of second home . in too many case they disrupt or destroy local community . however , I argue , as do my party , that this be not the good way of do it . clause 50 to 53 raise the stamp duty surcharge on second and subsequent home . I can see why it be attractive — it be an easy way of raise tax revenue for central Government — but it do not tackle the root problem . I urge the Government to look at the liberal Democrat proposal , which would do both . the impact of holiday home , and short - term let in particular , have be well rehearse in the House over the year , but without any action by the previous Conservative Government to tackle it . in my constituency we have see an absolute explosion of Airbnbs , which have become a magnet for antisocial behaviour and noise . property be take out of the rental market , increase demand and push up rental cost , squeeze many people out of the market and out of our area all together . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) , highlight the risk that this measure may pose of property be move from long - term let to short - term let . it may come as some surprise that the previous Conservative Government fail to regulate short - term let properly . indeed , when this House be consider the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 , we Liberal Democrats table amendment to the Bill to give local authority the power to regulate the number and location of Airbnbs — a power that be desperately need . every single corner of our country should be able to strike the right balance between tourism and home for local people , where they can build their life and their community . we also call for a separate planning class to be create for local authority , and we want local authority to have the power to levy high council tax for newly buy second home , with an additional surcharge on overseas resident . that would provide regular income for our hard - press council , not just infrequent money for central Government . we all know that we have a national housing crisis , but it be also a local housing crisis , because it present differently in different part of the country . we urge the Government to look at our proposal to raise regular tax revenue for our hard - press council while tackle this problem at its root . I invite Ministers to speak to the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government to ensure that we can give our local authority the power to regulate the number and location of short - term let such as Airbnbs , so that our community be no long disrupt and destroy . I call the Minister . I thank all hon . member for contribute to the debate today , and especially my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) — it be refreshing to hear someone with genuine knowledge of the housing market speak in the Chamber . I point out gently that the Office for National Statistics ' private rent index show that rent in England be now 50 % more expensive than 14 year ago , and that rent in London reach a record high this February , when we be not in government . I be slightly perplex as to why the opposition continue to disagree with this policy , which be almost a replica of one they introduce a few year ago , for exactly the same reason . why do they continue to oppose it ? they fail to understand that landlord do not stop buy property to rent out and rich people do not stop buy holiday home just because they have to pay a little more in a one - off tax . I have to admit that I have find this debate a little baffling , give some of the argument make from the Opposition Front Benches . however , I will respond to some of they now . our concern be that there have be no assessment of the impact on the rental market . all that the Opposition new clause be ask for be a review , because no evidence have be adduce in this debate . there be three people who have speak in this debate who have second property — who be landlord — and that be completely fine . what we be say be that there will be an impact on future landlord and on future behaviour from this tax , as there be from the tax that be introduce by the previous Government . the second thing to say — forgive I for the slightly extend intervention , Madam Chair — be that when the Government be set level of tax , there be an optimal point at which to levy tax in order to collect the maximum revenue , beyond which it start to become penal and have a deterrent effect on activity . I suppose what we be say be that we have get this far , and wish to go no far . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his speech . I will be reference everything ; he should probably listen carefully , because I will be respond to all the point he have make about private rental market and the impact this policy will have . I will turn to some of the new clause table by the opposition — I do not think the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) be present . new clause 6 and 7 would require the Government to report on the impact of the change introduce by clause 50 and 51 on the cost and supply of private rental property and on the housing market , respectively , in England and Northern Ireland . although it be important to understand the impact that the measure could have on rental cost , supply and the housing market — and , in turn , tenant , who have be mention — the Government consider the new clause to be unnecessary because the information be publicly available . the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government publish regular update , as the House will know , on the level of housing supply in England , as well as the english private landlord survey , which provide datum on supply in the private rent sector . in addition , HM Land Registry publish extensive datum on house price in England , include regional and local authority area breakdown . HMRC also publish statistic and datum on property transaction and stamp duty land tax receipt . on housing supply , the Budget set out a series of new investment to kick - start the big increase to social and affordable housebuilde in a generation . this be an important step to provide the condition need for the market to deliver 1 . 5 million home — home that be desperately need by our constituent . the Government recognise that the rented sector be often a key part of someone ' s home ownership journey . the Renters ' Rights Bill will improve the current system for both the 11 million private renter and 2 . 3 million landlord in England . it will give renter much great security and stability , so they can stay in their own home for long , build life in their community and avoid the risk of homelessness . the measure in the Bill to increase the high rate for additional dwelling be intend to support home ownership among first - time buyer and those move home , give they an advantage in the housing market . the OBR certified costing assume that increase the high rate of SDLT by two percentage point be expect to result in 130 , 000 additional transaction over the next five year by first - time buyer and other people buy a primary residence . in summary , the Government have already consider the impact of clause 51 and 52 on the private rent sector and housing market . we will continue to publish housing market statistic in the usual way , keep all tax policy under review and evaluate the impact of all change . therefore , the propose report be unnecessary and I urge the House to reject the new clause . I hope I have be able to reassure the hon . member who table the new clause that the addition and change be just not necessary , for the reason I have set out , and I urge the House to reject new clause 6 and 7 . question put and agree to . clause 50 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 51 to 53 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 6 - Sections 50 and 51 : impact on private rental sector " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of this Act be pass , publish an assessment of the impact of the change introduce by section 50 and 51 of this Act on the private rental sector in England and Northern Ireland . ( 2 ) the assessment in subsection ( 1 ) must consider — ( a ) the effect of the provision of section 50 and 51 of this Act on the cost of private rent in each region within England and in Northern Ireland , ( b ) the effect of the provision of section 50 and 51 of this Act on the supply of private rental property in each region within England and Northern Ireland , ( c ) any other implication of the change introduce by section 50 and 51 of this Act . " — ( James Wild . ) this new clause require the Chancellor to review the impact increase rate of stamp duty for additional dwelling be have on the private rental sector in England and Northern Ireland . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Priti Patel Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Rebecca Paul Greg Smith Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Gerald Jones Kate Dearden the Committee divide : Ayes 105 , Noes 314 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 7 - Review of effect of section 50 and 51 on housing market " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of this Act be pass , publish an assessment of the impact of the change introduce by section 50 and 51 of this Act , on the housing market in England and Northern Ireland . ( 2 ) the assessment in subsection ( 1 ) must consider — ( a ) the effect of the provision of section 50 and 51 of this Act on the demand for house in each region within England and Northern Ireland , and ( b ) the implication for the housing market of the provision of section 50 and 51 of this Act . " — ( James Wild . ) this new clause require the Chancellor to review the impact increase rate of stamp duty for additional dwelling be have on the housing market in England and Northern Ireland . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Priti Patel Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Rebecca Paul Greg Smith Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Richard Quigley Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Kate Dearden Gerald Jones the Committee divide : Ayes 104 , Noes 313 . question accordingly negative . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill ( Clauses 7 to 12 , 15 to 18 and 47 to 53 and Schedules 1 to 3 ) report ( Standing Order no . 83d ( 6 ) ) , without amendment , and order to lie on the table . Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament Motion make , and question propose , that Peter Dowd , Richard Foord , Sir John Hayes , Jessica Morden , Derek Twigg and Sir Jeremy Wright be appoint to the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament under Section 1 of the Justice and Security Act 2013 . — ( Lucy Powell . ) I promise that I will not unduly detain the House . as the retire Chairman of the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament , I wish to put on record that it have be an interesting tenure . it get off to a somewhat controversial start when the then Prime Minister delay its reconstitution by seven month , and then proceed to try to impose a chairman on the Committee in defiance of the provision of the Justice and Security Act 2013 that the Committee should henceforth choose its own chairman from among its member . I be delighted to see that the present Government do not appear to be try to do either of those two thing . I be also encourage by the fact that there appear to be a well balance between the member of this House and the number of member from the other place , which reflect more appropriately the joint nature of the Committee . during my four year in post , the Committee produce several substantial report — not just the famous Russia report , which be the work of the previous Committee and which we resolve to publish on our first day of reconstitution in July 2020 . we produce major report under our own steam , include one on extreme right - wing terrorism ; a particularly well - receive report on China ; a substantial report on international partnership ; and , although it have not yet be publish , a very interesting and comprehensive report on Iran . that report be in its final form and be just await completion of the agree redaction that have to be work out between the agency concern and the Committee . I hope that that report will appear soon . the Committee also produce no few than four of its annual report , which survey the general landscape of the seven intelligence agency and other security organisation that it supervise . there have be only two cloud on the horizon . one be the persistent refusal of the previous Government — no doubt on advice from official in , I suspect , the Cabinet Office — to allow the Committee to adapt its memorandum of understanding with 10 Downing Street , which be specifically design for flexibility when security sensitive activity be undertake by different Departments . that element of the work of those different Departments should be scrutinise by the ISC , and appropriate adaptation should be make to the term of the memorandum of understanding . instead , it be unrealistically suggest that the general Select Committee for the Department concern could do that sensitive work . it could not ; it should not — this should be down to the ISC . the second point be something I have allude to repeatedly in speech in this Parliament , which be that the independence of the secretariat of the ISC have be compromise by a so - call temporary arrangement , which be enter into with the Cabinet Office no less than 10 year ago . it mean that if the ISC be deem to be unhelpful to the Government or the establishment , or the two organisation out of the seven that it scrutinise which happen to be locate in the Cabinet Office , the career of the staff of the ISC will not prosper . I want to put it on record that the director and the staff of the ISC — this be a common view among all part of the Committee throughout my tenure as Chairman — be absolutely outstanding . I be particularly incense when on two occasion , my recommendation as Chairman for an outstanding grading for the ISC ' s professional director be overrule by official in the Cabinet Office and downgrade . it be as a result of that sort of unacceptable behaviour and intrusion on the independence of the ISC that the Committee early this year vote unanimously — I stress , unanimously — that the secretariat of the ISC should be remove from the oversight or control of the Cabinet Office and should become an independent body or a body corporate , as exist in certain other organisation . I really do commend that to the Leader of the House . we do not want to see a persistence of this conflict of interest , where the Cabinet Office be able to put a blight on the career of the loyal , talented and dedicated member of staff who have serve the ISC so well . with that , Madam Deputy Speaker — will my right hon . friend give way before he finish ? I be just about to finish , but of course I will . I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend for give way . on behalf of those who have serve on the Committee and , in my case , who hope to carry on serve subject to the will of the House , I just say that this moment should not pass without our simply say thank you to my right hon . friend for his service . this be an important Committee , as he know well than anyone . it do a considerable service to the House , and he have do a considerable service to the House himself in serve on it or chair it with the skill with which he have over nearly a decade . I be flattered and extremely grateful . come from someone of the calibre of my right hon . and learn Friend , that mean a great deal to I . it remind I of one last point that I perhaps would have overlook : one can achieve an awful lot with these secret organisation . I remember go with the excellent director of the ISC to meet a senior figure , shall we say , in the secret world , and we be discuss some of the report we be go to produce . one of they be , as I mention in my list early , a report on the international partnership that our intelligence agency have . the senior figure be say , " well , it ' s go to be very difficult . you ' re not go to be able to publish just about anything . be you sure you really want to do this examination ? " to which the obvious answer be , " well , we will certainly be able to produce a very interesting report , even if it be classify in its entirety and publish only as a single sheet with the title page on it . " I know I be not allow to produce prop , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I just happen to have with I a copy of that report , which it prove possible to publish in the end . it be not a single page ; it be about 100 page . that be what a clever , dedicated staff can manage to produce , irrespective of the fact that it rightly have to exclude anything that might harm the interest of the nation . it be possible both for the secret agency to do their work and for the scrutineer of the secret agency to do their work , provide that the independence of the people who do all the heavy lifting , namely the director and the secretariat , be not compromise . may I take this opportunity to pass on my thank , and the thank of the Government and the whole House , for the right hon . Gentleman ' s exemplary work as Chair of the Committee over many year and in challenge time ? we be incredibly grateful for his work , and I want to put that on the record . I echo the right hon . Gentleman ' s remark about the brilliant work of the director and the secretariat , and about the importance of maintain their independence so that they be able to do that work freely . as he say , it be vital to this House and the country that the Committee be , remain and be see to be totally independent , and that it can speak truth to power where it need to . I commend the motion to the House . question put and agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Environmental Protection that the draft Environmental permitting ( Electricity Generating Stations ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 30 October , be approve . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , proceed of Crime that the draft Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 ( search , Seizure and Detention of Property : Code of Practice ) ( Northern Ireland ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 31 October , be approve . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . nationally Significant Infrastructure Projects and Local Road Networks Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) I be delighted to have secure this Adjournment debate . I thank the Minister for attend and for the engagement that we have have prior to the debate . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I be a county councillor in Oxfordshire . in Bicester in my constituency , the delivery of East West Rail will lead to the closure of London Road . that be the only road join the south - east with the centre of town . close it without provide a replacement will cut the town in two . I have secure this debate to highlight the problem and to seek the Minister ' s support in find a suitable solution for our town that will keep London Road open to pedestrian , cyclist and car user . give that the frequency of rail service be set to double from 2025 , I hope that she will recognise the urgency of the issue . the general point , which I suspect may be of relevance to other member , be that when there be project that bring national benefit , local community should be directly compensate for the impact on they . the emergency closure of the A432 motorway overbridge have have a massive impact on the local road network in my constituency . it be a good example of how national infrastructure project can have damaging impact on local resident and business . do my hon . friend agree that we need investment in national infrastructure so that we do not get these damaging , multi - year closure , which have such an impact on local people ? I agree with my hon . friend , who make her point extremely well . too often , the decision - make process on national strategic infrastructure project take decision away from local community , and local people feel that thing be do to they rather than with they . the Government ' s target for 1 . 5 million more house will have a transformative impact on the UK , particularly in term of our national strategic infrastructure , such as motorway and motorway junction . that will have a major impact in constituency such as mine , which be bisect by the M3 motorway and be expect to have a 250 % increase in housing over the next few year , despite our already overcrowded road . do my hon . friend agree that local community need to be put at the heart of decision making , and that national strategic infrastructure must be upgrade in advance of development , rather than long after ? my hon . friend illustrate rather well that , as I suspect , this topic be of interest to a number of member . he make his point extremely well . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will take one more intervention , and then I will make some progress . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this debate before the House — I speak to he beforehand , and other member have add their input as well . while the planning system in Northern Ireland be devolve and operate very differently from that on the mainland , he will know that significant infrastructure project can take year of plan to - ing and fro - ing and do not always involve community in the way that they should . do he agree that community involvement and streamline the process of deliver necessary project be important , in order to take in and encapsulate the entirety of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention , and I be glad to have give he the opportunity to speak at the beginning of a debate , rather than at the end . his point about community involvement be very well make , and I will elaborate on they a bit in my own remark . to turn back to Bicester , the East West Rail project to connect Oxford to Cambridge be an ambitious infrastructure project that will provide a connection between some of the UK ' s most dynamic centre of innovation and research . it will pass through my constituency of Bicester and Woodstock , and many constituent have contact I to highlight how the project will impact they . they include Carol , who live in a care home south of the rail crossing and tell I that she move there because it be a short mobility scooter ride from Market Square on a flat route — he would be cut off . they include a volunteer firefighter at Bicester fire station on the north side of the crossing , who live on the south side and be worry that without access via London Road , he may be delay when he be call to join an emergency crew — he would be cut off . they include Claire , who cycle with her two son into town from her home on the south - east of the town . they can not use the busy a road to get into town if London Road be close — they would be cut off . those constituent , and many like they , be worried about the delay that they will face to these regular journey . all those journey will be disrupt by this plan closure . to put this issue in some context , Oxfordshire county council maintain an automate traffic monitor on London Road by the level crossing . that traffic monitor show that in 2017 , there be 9 , 000 journey per day on the road . that number fall during the pandemic , but have consistently rise since , with 7 , 700 journey in 2023 . the threat of close London Road be imminent , but it should not come as any surprise to those in government or the rail industry . importantly , there be a road there long before there be a railway ; back in 1795 , a coach service run six day a week from Banbury to London through Bicester , make use of London Road . the railway come to Bicester in 1850 , cross London Road for the first time . those horse - draw coach have be replace by motor car , as well as bus and lorry , and with that have come the growth of the town . over the century to 1930 , Bicester be a town of around 3 , 000 inhabitant . the war period be follow by expansion , and the town ' s population nearly double by 1961 , before grow rapidly to 20 , 000 by 1981 and 37 , 000 by 2021 . it be forecast to grow to over 50 , 000 by 2031 . through all of this , there have remain just one road from the centre of Bicester out to the south : London Road , which be still cross by the railway line . in 2008 , Chiltern Railways announce a proposal to connect Oxford to London Marylebone by instate new track just east of London Road . this be link to the proposal for the new East West Rail link that have be make in the early 2000s by a consortium of local authority . back in 2006 , the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister state its support for the west part of the line , from Bletchley to Oxford . that support be finally back with money in the 2011 autumn statement and a subsequent announcement make by the Transport Secretary in July 2012 . the Chiltern Railways proposal go to planning inspection , with a hearing hold in 2012 . at that point , more than 12 year ago , various Bicester resident point out the implication of a new line and the disruption that frequent downtime of the level crossing would cause . Chiltern Railways argue , however , that there be uncertainty about East West Rail go ahead , and therefore it would be premature to act . the inspector agree . as a result , when the railway be close for a full 20 month between February 2014 and October 2015 , a huge opportunity be miss to provide a viable solution for the future . bad , the redesign and expansion of the station — include a large two - storey car park to serve Bicester Village retail park — take up space that could have be part of a solution to the rail crossing . it therefore take almost a decade from the announcement of Department for Transport support for the route between Bletchley and Oxford to be formally approve by the Transport Secretary in February 2020 . that approval follow another planning inspectorate hearing . resident include Carole Hetherington , who be the chair of the Langford Village Community Association and be in the Gallery today , and the Bicester Traffic Action Group , represent today by Rachel Mallows , again point out the need for a solution for London Road . again , this do not happen . in 2021 , East West Rail consult resident on its idea for the line between Bletchley and Oxford , include for London Road . it offer six alternative , of which option 1 be the full closure of the road with no mitigation . local resident be appal by this suggestion . a petition that I launch , as a county council candidate , garner over 1 , 500 signature oppose the road closure . in March 2023 , Oxfordshire county council unanimously approve a motion that I propose as a councillor , state that the council would work with East West Rail to secure " a sustainable , fund solution that continue to provide suitable rail crossing for car , cycle and pedestrian " . a similar motion be bring to Cherwell district council by Liberal Democrat councillor , who be represent in the Gallery today by Councillor Frank Ideh . the policy of both local authority be therefore to keep London Road open . local resident and I be very frustrated to have to wait over two year for East West Rail ' s response to the 2021 consultation . despite repeat indication that it would publish a response , this be serially delay . I have some sympathy with East West Rail — under the last government , it see five Rail Ministers between 2019 and the 2024 general election , as well as four Prime Ministers and five Chancellors . it be not easy for a major infrastructure project to get steady engagement from the last government . finally , in July 2023 East West Rail bring forward feedback on the consultation . this be do through an informal feedback session with a limited amount of publish material . many people be disappoint that , after two further year , there be no specific proposal on the table . do the Minister share my frustration and that of my constituent that a project first endorse by the then Deputy Prime Minister under the last Labour Government in 2006 have only in the last month bring forward detailed proposal for London Road , even though resident have be highlight concern for over a decade ? do she also agree that it be deeply regrettable that a short - term approach mean that much more cost - effective opportunity to address this issue be miss when the railway be closed and station rebuild in 2014 - 15 ? People in Bicester have to wait for the announcement of the propose East West Rail route in November 2024 to hear what be now be propose for our town . let I start with a positive . it be welcome that there be now a commitment to provide a suitably accessible crossing for pedestrian and cyclist . that be a material improvement on the proposal in 2021 , which be either to close London Road or to provide only a basic footbridge that would have be totally unsuitable for anyone with a disability , parent with buggy or cyclist . this reflect sustained community pressure , include from Claire , whom I mention early , and from the member of the Bicester bike user group , who have be strong champion of a suitable underpass . there be strong support for an underpass rather than a bridge . it would require much less clearance since the land already sit 2 metre below the height of the railway . however , it must be well design to ensure the safety of user , which , among other thing , mean adopt good design principle to discourage loitering and maximise visibility for all user . however , the very bad news for Bicester resident be that East West Rail be propose to close London Road to car user and offer no alternative . in its consultation document , it say : " our preferred solution be for traffic to be divert use exist road . " the strength of community feel about this be very clear to I in my postbag and my inbox . nearly 400 people have sign a new petition in the last month object to this closure . the technical document that accompany the conclusion make it clear that only preliminary analysis of the journey time have be conduct . it be unclear from this whether the project growth in Bicester , of both new home and employment site , have be factor into the analysis . the document talk about potential improvement to journey time from junction improvement and signal change . local resident and I be very sceptical that this can compensate in any meaningful way for close this arterial road . when the Rail Minister courteously call I last month in advance of the announcement of this route , I share these concern with he and welcome his assurance that this would be a genuine consultation . may I therefore take this opportunity in the House to ask the Minister to confirm that the Government remain open - minded on this proposal ? can she confirm that the Government will listen to the consultation feedback , and will she agree that either she or the Rail Minister will meet I and local representative before submit any final proposal for planning approval ? many resident in Bicester see the benefit of increase the capacity for rail travel across our region , and see that it may bring economic benefit to the UK by join up some of the most innovative area , yet all resident agree that the national benefit will come at a cost to Bicester . the core issue here be one of fairness . local people can support a project that have wide benefit so long as they be not ask to bear concentrated cost without mitigation . in this case , car user be be ask to make materially long journey without any alleviation . the situation be akin to a compulsory purchase order . the railway have , in this case , determine that it will compulsorily close the road at the level crossing , but instead of fully compensate the community for the loss of the road , the current proposal be to give they a limited underpass . East West Rail and the Government need to do well . I note that the Government be propose that for nationally significant infrastructure project in energy , such as new pylon , there should be direct compensation for affected community . indeed , my hon . friend the Member for Inverness , Skye and West Ross - shire ( Mr MacDonald ) recently lead a debate on community benefit from renewable energy , which have strong participation from across the House . there be clear support for accept that local community should be compensate when ask to bear the brunt of the effect of national project . do the Government agree with the principle that there should be compensation for loss from these nationally significant planning decision ? money , of course , be key . it have be suggest to I by East West Rail that a core reason for not provide a new road crossing be a cost - benefit evaluation , yet that miss the point . this be not about greenfield project appraisal ; it be about compensate the community in Bicester for what be be take away from they . when land be compulsorily purchase , a market value be pay in compensation . the Government can not give the landowner a cheap plot of land and tell they to make the good of it . since the railway be , in effect , compulsorily seize the road , it should provide direct compensation to the community . do the Minister agree that resident in Bicester deserve direct compensation for the closure of London Road in the form of a new road crossing ? over the past decade , many resident have provide potential option for a crossing , and one of their deep frustration have be that so little detailed work have be do on those option . resident be share idea with I now . they include a crossing for light vehicle only , or a signal - control crossing that would be cheap as it would only require one lane across the railway . they have ask whether the propose underpass could be repurpose for light vehicle at limited additional cost . but it be hard for people to engage meaningfully with alternative when the Government and East West Rail have be so secretive about the funding available for this project . as final proposal be develop next year , will the Minister undertake to provide a cash value of the preferred option that the Department for Transport be set to approve ? finally , I want to stress the urgency of action . East West Rail have already run test train on the track between Oxford and Bletchley , and it intend to start that service in 2025 . when that happen , the downtime of the level crossing will double , create immediate inconvenience and delay for Bicester resident . after all the delay my constituent have already experience , they must not be make to wait until service start between Oxford and Cambridge after 2030 . I appreciate that there be other challenge at the eastern end of the line before the line be complete , but nothing will change between now and then for the western end of the project that affect London Road . will the Minister please commit that , once option be submit and approve under a development consent order , fund will be provide and East West Rail will proceed immediately with work to provide crossing at London Road ? this be an issue of fairness . as a national infrastructure project , East West Rail bring many national benefit , yet it bring very specific local cost to my constituent in Bicester . after more than a decade of delay and miss opportunity , we be ask the Government to do the right thing and provide compensation for the direct harm of close London Road . I hope the Minister will agree to my request , and I look forward to work with she , her colleague the Rail Minister , and the leadership of East West Rail to ensure that the right solution be develop for pedestrian , cyclist , and car user , and that Bicester be not cut in two by the new railway . I congratulate the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) on secure this debate , and I thank he for continue to raise the issue of the London Road level crossing in his constituency . I recognise the concern that he raise on behalf of local resident , and I appreciate the strength of those concern — indeed , that be demonstrate by the presence of a number of his constituent today . as the hon . member be well aware , East West Rail launch a non - statutory consultation on 14 November on its proposal for the construction of a new railway that would provide a direct service between Oxford and Cambridge for the first time since the 1960 . that will provide billion in economic growth , which can be reinveste into the economy nationally . the upshot of that be that , as he say , East West Rail be propose the closure of the London Road level crossing in Bicester . the possibility of that be note in the non - statutory consultation that take place in 2021 . I appreciate that for constituent face these sort of challenge it be difficult to have that uncertainty over a long period , when they know something be come but it be some way off and they do not know exactly how it will impact on they . the introduction of four East West Rail passenger train per hour on top of exist passenger and freight service would represent — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) I have forget that would happen at 7 pm . the introduction of four East West Rail passenger train per hour on top of exist passenger and freight service would represent a significant uplift in the rail traffic pass over the level crossing . on one level , that be a benefit , include to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , who will have those new option for connectivity and the choice that bring in job , education or just get about . that be a huge advantage not just to his area , but to the country . however , I understand that it do have less welcome impact , and he have describe the severance issue in his constituency in Bicester . indeed , the hon . member for Thornbury and Yate ( Claire Young ) and the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) , who be not in his place , take the opportunity to highlight the importance of listen to the concern of local community when develop national infrastructure project and work with they to mitigate any adverse impact . I understand the importance of try to do that . turn back to London Road and the level crossing , the level crossing barrier be currently close for around 10 minute every hour , but the closure time be expect to regularly exceed 32 minute in the hour once all East West Rail service be operational , and the barrier could be close for up to 12 and a half minute of continuous downtime at a time . the impact of that would be queue half a mile long in either direction . that would have a huge impact not only on those stick in the queue , but on air quality and broad congestion . it would cause the significant traffic disruption that the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock be rightly keen to avoid , create long tailback , potentially through the centre of town , on a daily basis . in addition to the traffic issue that would be cause by retention of the crossing , we also have to consider the personal safety of cross user , whether they be cross on foot , on bicycle or other non - motorise mean . analysis undertake by the East West Railway Company determine that the risk of collision between a train and a road user , whether through misuse of the level crossing or an accident , be simply too high with the uplift in East West Rail service . we know that level crossing be a point of vulnerability on the rail network , and safety have to be a top priority . in the view of the East West Railway Company and Network Rail , no further step could be take to improve the safety of the level crossing without undertake its closure . I understand how disappointing that be to member of the hon . Gentleman ' s local community . the East West Railway Company have review all the possible option for the crossing , have consult on they in 2021 . those option include a road bridge over the crossing and a road tunnel underneath it . as the East West Railway Company set out in its 2023 route upgrade announcement , provide an overbridge or an underpass present insurmountable design , constructability and affordability challenge , and those option be not progress . I recognise , as the hon . Gentleman say , that when the area around the station be redevelop , I think back in 2014 , there might have be an opportunity to look at different way the crossing could have be do , but at the time there be no East West Railway Company , and perhaps there be a lack of join - up that could have be provide at that time . however , I be afraid we be 10 year on from that . the East West Railway Company do undertake to explore option to leave the road open to local traffic and develop option to retain connectivity for pedestrian , cyclist and other non - vehicle user , which would of course include mobility scooter user such as the constituent that the hon . Member refer to . ensure accessibility for those group be extremely important . since 2023 , the East West Railway Company have also consider provide new road bridge cross the railway at other location in Bicester . I be afraid that the modelling work undertake on the downtime of the level crossing barrier produce the result that I set out for the extended closure period , so it be deem not appropriate to retain the level crossing for local use only . provide road bridge in other location in Bicester have also be rule out on the ground of affordability and constructability . East West Rail have provide further detail of its analysis that lead to those conclusion in the technical report accompany the current non - statutory consultation . I be sure that the hon . Member be aware of that , and that his constituent and those watch either will have read that or will now go and seek it out . the option currently out for consultation of a pedestrian footbridge or underpass — they would of course be build to suitable accessibility standard to provide opportunity for cyclist and those use mobility scooter — alongside local road diversion , aim to provide the good possible balance between affordability and constructability and the need of the local community in the hon . member ' s constituency . both the footbridge and the underpass have be develop in the light of feedback receive at and since the 2021 consultation . I assure he that there be opportunity for further design refinement to ensure that the solution meet the community ' s need . I note the hon . member ' s comment about the issue that he would like to see address and what he believe the majority of his constituent would prefer . I assure he that the Government be listen and that I and my colleague the Rail Minister will be happy to keep in touch with he . I be sure there will be opportunity for further discussion as thing progress . I very much appreciate the Minister ' s fulsome response . there be one point that I want to press she on slightly . East West Rail ' s own analysis have demonstrate that there be still a lot of technical work to be do — as I highlight , some of the traffic modelling have not yet be do — so give that the information be not fully there and we have no public figure on how much money could be spend on a solution , will she accept that there should be openness to suggestion that might come from the community and not a closing down on the relatively limited range of option that East West Rail have so far provide ? the Rail Minister give I that assurance when I speak to he , and I would be grateful if the Minister would confirm that there be openness to consider other option if they can be demonstrate to be technically and financially feasible . I be happy to give the hon . member that assurance , and I certainly would not disagree with the Rail Minister . I can also assure he that the propose road diversion and any further enhancement require to minimise the impact of these diversion will be fund as part of the East West Rail project and that the local authority will not be expect to foot the bill . I have hear the representation about the importance of protect the hon . member ' s constituent , and I know that my noble Friend Lord Hendy will have do as well . I understand that have to travel to the centre of Bicester by an alternative route be unwelcome , but initial traffic modelling have demonstrate that any journey lengthen cause by vehicle traffic take the alternative route propose in the consultation will still be considerably short than the journey time extension cause by sit in a traffic jam at the crossing for 10 minute and upwards . in closing , I signpost the ongoing consultation , and I invite all those with view , include the hon . member ' s constituent , to contact the East West Rail Company through the publish channel before the closing date of 24 January 2025 . it be so important that we listen to local people ' s view and that we try to take they into account as we develop further mitigation . as I say , no final decision have be take on which option to choose for the level crossing and future access for the local community . feedback from the public will play a part in influence the outcome . I would be pleased to keep in touch with the hon . member as the position on the level crossing develop , and once again I congratulate he on secure this important debate , ensure that his constituent ' concern be hear in this place . question put and agree to . House adjourn . Deferred Division Trade Jack Abbott Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Clive Betts Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn David Chadwick Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Bobby Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Sorcha Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Claire Hanna Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Helen Maguire Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Manuela Perteghella Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Jim Allister Gregory Campbell Christopher Chope Carla Lockhart Rupert Lowe Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon Robin Swann Sammy Wilson that the draft Movement of Goods ( Northern Ireland to Great Britain ) ( animal , Feed and Food , Plant Health etc . ) ( Transitory Provision and Miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 28 October , be approve . the House divide : Ayes 375 , Noes 9 . question accordingly agree to .