Oral Answers to Questions Health and Social Care the Secretary of State be ask — Mental Health Services : child what step he be take to improve mental health service for child . the delivery of mental health service for child in Scotland be the responsibility of the Scottish Government . I hope that they will make the good use of the boost from the recent Budget to invest in mental health service . in England , we will support child and young people early by provide access to a specialist mental health professional in every school and roll out Young Futures hub in every community . we will also cut waiting time by recruit 8 , 500 more worker across child and adult mental health service . the long - term impact of the covid - 19 pandemic on young people be often forget , with isolation lead to miss opportunity , lose life experience and still unknown impact on mental health . child and adolescent mental health service referral in Fife and across Scotland have skyrocket , and despite a record Budget settlement from the UK Government , the SNP Scottish Government have tell NHS Fife not even to bother ask for more funding to tackle this massive problem . I and colleague will write to the Scottish Government about that . will the Minister join I in urge the Scottish Government to reverse course and ensure that young people have the support that they deserve and need ? my hon . friend make an excellent point on behalf of young people . it be disappointing that the Scottish Government do not seem to be allocate the funding as they could . he raise a powerful case , and I know that he will work hard with the Government in Edinburgh to make the situation well for his constituent . be the mental health support in school that the Minister just mention the same as or different from the plan for mental health support team in school that be already be roll out by the previous Government ? our plan be to have universal coverage in every school . that be not achieve by the previous Government , and we hope to ensure that it happen . Employer National Insurance Contributions : Social Care what assessment he have make of the potential impact of the increase to employer national insurance contribution on social care . this government will never shy away from take the choice necessary to fix the public finance and rebuild our public service . it be thank to those choice that we be able to invest an additional £ 3 . 7 billion in 2025 - 26 in local authority that provide social care . we be also deliver the big uplift to the carer ' s allowance since the 1970 , an £ 86 million uplift to the disabled facility grant , and a fair pay agreement for care worker . the increase in employer national insurance contribution come at a time when we simply can not afford to lose any more provision from care provider . Age UK estimate that 2 million people age 65 and over already have unmet care and support need . what assessment have the Minister make of the potential increase in unmet care need as a result of the increase to employer national insurance contribution ? there be a pattern here . the Conservatives welcome the additional investment in health and care but oppose the choice that we have make to raise the revenue . they need to tell we which service they would cut or which taxis they would raise instead . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Coverage Care , a not - for - profit adult social care provider in North Shropshire that operate 11 care home and employ around 1 , 000 local staff , have be in touch to say that it expect the impact of the increase in national insurance contribution to be £ 840 , 000 in the first full year of implementation . give that there be huge number of vacancy across adult social care in North Shropshire , will the Secretary of State consider exempt social care provider from the national insurance increase ? otherwise we be put money into social care with one hand and take it away with the other . I refer the hon . Lady to my previous answer on the very substantial funding that we be provide to local authority , which of course be key to the adult social care system . however , funding must always be marry with reform . we have bring forward a pack programme of reform — from datum sharing and empower care worker to take on basic healthcare to promote well use of care technology — and in the spirit of cross - party collaboration that we believe be absolutely vital and urgent in this area , I gently encourage she to see those reform as the first step towards rebuild our care service and make it fit for the future . access to Primary Care what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of patient access to primary care service . what assessment his Department have make of the adequacy of patient access to primary care service . what recent step he have take to increase access to GP appointment . today there be 1 , 399 few full - time equivalent GPs than in 2015 , and NHS dentistry be at death ' s door . this government will fix the front door to the NHS . we have announce an additional £ 889 million in funding for general practice in 2025 - 26 — the big boost in year — and we have already start hire an extra 1 , 000 gps on the frontline . our 10 - year health plan will shift the focus of healthcare out of hospital and into the community . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer on the critical issue of access to GPs in primary healthcare . my constituency of Barking be woefully under - serve by primary healthcare , and especially by GPs . on average , each GP look after 2 , 000 patient ; the national average be 1 , 600 . in particular , the area of Barking Riverside have no GP service . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss this matter , so that the thousand of home that be be build will also have a primary healthcare facility on site ? order . I remind member to look towards the Chair , because I can not hear what be be say . I call the Secretary of State — I hope he hear the question . thank you , Mr Speaker . I would be delighted for my hon . friend to meet I or the relevant Minister . the NHS have a statutory duty to ensure sufficient service in each local area , include general practice , and it be vital that we also take into account population growth and demographic change . I strongly support the Deputy Prime Minister ' s commitment to deliver 1 . 5 million new home , and she and I know that that must be accompany by local healthcare facility . we be work together to achieve just that . I really welcome this Government ' s focus on make sure everyone can see a gp when they need one . the crisis in GP provision nationally have be exacerbate by the failure under the last government to ensure that primary care investment have keep pace with housing growth . with such a low share of integrate care board capital funding allocate to primary care by the last government , how can we make sure we do much well in ensure that GP capacity expand at the same time as local growth ? my hon . friend have be raise these issue with I since before he be elect to this place on behalf of the community he represent . as I say to my hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) , we must make sure that additional housing — which be desperately need — be accompany by health and care service . the Deputy Prime Minister and I be work together to achieve just that , and thank to the decision take by the Chancellor in the Budget , we be able to invest in the health and care service that this country need and deserve . woodstock surgery in my constituency be not fit for purpose . in September , heavy rain fall and cause the roof to collapse , cause the surgery to close . the nurse literally see patient in a broom cupboard . the GPs want to increase their capacity to see more patient , but have be unable to access sufficient capital from the integrate care board . will the Secretary of State meet I and the Woodstock GPs to discuss how the reform announce yesterday will help they build a new surgery , so that they can see patient fast ? I be grateful to the hon . member for that question . I be incredibly sorry about the awful condition in which staff in that practice be have to see patient and in which the patient it serve be have to be see — that be the epitome of the broken general practice system that we inherit . thank to the decision take by the Chancellor in the Budget , we be able to invest in the capital estate need in the NHS . that will take time , and we would be delighted to hear more about that individual case to see how the ICB and the NHS can assist . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . follow the theme raise by my hon . friend and neighbour , the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , may I make a plea for Summertown health centre ? they be my doctor , by the way , so I declare an interest . they operate in an old victorian building and be desperate to move to new premise . that health centre be at the top of the priority list , but the ICB say that there be no money , and the doctor say that there be no pot that they can bid into in order to get this see to . will the Secretary of State meet I as well ? clearly , £ 102 million spread across 50 project in the country be not go to be sufficient . can we get creative about how we can get new premise build for Summertown health centre ? of course I will meet the hon . Lady . it would be daft of I to say no to the Chair of the Select Committee ; otherwise , she will see I in less pleasant circumstance . in all seriousness , we be look creatively at this issue . there be enormous capital pressure right across the NHS estate . we be regularly lobby on new hospital , for example , but we be also lobby on general practice , the mental health estate and the rest . we will do as much as we can as fast as we can , think creatively about how we can get more capital investment in , and I would be happy to discuss that far with the hon . Lady . when I be out regularly knock on door and listen to people across the constituency , one of the issue resident raise with I most frequently be the challenge in even be able to book a gp ' s appointment . could the Secretary of State please set out what his plan be for end that 8 be phone scramble , include for those who do not use app and website as confidently ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that question . as the Prime Minister set out in our elective reform plan yesterday , we be determined to make sure that access NHS service , include general practice , dentistry and other primary care service , be as easy and convenient as access any other service at the touch of a button via our smartphone . we have commit to that in the elective reform plan , which will bring benefit right across the NHS as we modernise . of course , she be right to mention those who may not be digitally connected or may not want to access service in that way . that be why I believe very strongly in patient choice — different course for different horse . People like I book via the app will free up telephone line for those who prefer to access service that way . be the Secretary of State aware that the increase to employer national insurance be actually reduce patient access to primary care ? I meet GP representative in Aberdeenshire and Aberdeen recently , and they tell I of two way in which that be happen : first , they be have to let staff go ; and secondly , some gps be consider meet these cost from their own pocket . will he consider an exemption for GP practice from these charge ? that be a rare admission of failure in this House by the SNP . I be very sorry to hear that general practice in Scotland be in such a sorry state , because here in England we be invest £ 889 million in general practice , the big uplift in year . that be in addition to the funding I have find to employ 1 , 000 more gps on the frontline before April , because we be prioritise general practice . as for the decision the Chancellor take in the Budget , as I say before the election , all road lead to Westminster . thank to the decision a Labour Chancellor have make here in Westminster , come down that road from Westminster to Holyrood be the resource the SNP Government need to deliver the priority of the scottish people . if they can not , Anas Sarwar and Jackie Baillie stand ready to deliver . I call the shadow Minister . to improve access , the Government have announce a plan expansion of advice and guidance , and GPs will be pay £ 20 per advice and guidance request they make for further expert advice from consultant . how do the Government expect this expansion to take place ? will they be mandate it give that the current position of the British Medical Association , under its collective action , be that GPs should " stop engage with the e - Referral Advice & Guidance pathway " ? I think the shadow Minister will find that GPs welcome the £ 889 million uplift announce just before Christmas . that be the big boost to general practice in year . it be part of this Government ' s agenda to fix the front door to the NHS and recognise the dire state that GPs be leave under . of course , with that investment come reform . I think GPs would be delighted to manage more of their patient in the community if give the tool to do the job , and that be something this Government be commit to do . go back to advice and guidance , GPs use advice and guidance when they have come to the summit of their knowledge and need specialist input . for example , as a gp , I may see a rheumatology patient and ask for advice from a rheumatologist , who may advise specialist blood test . the problem be that , as the inquiry clinician , I be legally responsible for those blood test and have to pay for they out of the primary care budget . do the Government propose that the £ 20 will cover subsequent follow - up and the cost of suggest test ? give the expansion of advice and guidance , will the Government be look at a legal framework change in accountability for clinician make request ? first , as the shadow Minister have say , advice and guidance happen in general practice , and we want to see more of it . we have to give GPs the tool to do the job , and that be what we be do . my hon . friend the Minister for Care will be talk to the BMA shortly in the context of contract negotiation in the usual way . what the shadow Minister neglect to mention be that these reform and improvement to general practice be make possible thank to the £ 889 million we be put in , which be investment that he and his party oppose . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . dentistry be a key part of primary care , yet an estimate 5 million people in England have be leave without an NHS dentist . that be why today a petition be be hand in at Downing Street sign by more than a quarter of a million people . we have move on from the election , but we do not yet have a timetable for when the negotiation for a new NHS dental contract will begin and when another 700 , 000 extra urgent appointment will be roll out . can the Secretary of State confirm the timetable for those improvement ? what specifically be the Government ' s plan for the new patient premium , and will he offer assurance to dentist that any change to the current model will be outline in detail to they as soon as possible ? we be look at two thing , the first of which be make sure we deliver what we say in our manifesto , include the 700 , 000 urgent appointment . we be determined to deliver those as fast as we can and my hon . friend the Minister for Care be have discussion with the British Dental Association to that effect . he be also look closely , as be I , at the money that be already go into NHS dentistry — how that money could be well spend and how it be that year after year , despite people ' s tooth rot to the extent that they be have to pull they out themselves or child have to attend a & E to have their tooth pull out , we see consistent underspend in the dentistry budget under our predecessor . we be determined to give dentist the tool to do the job so that patient can see a dentist when they need one . Drug and Alcohol addiction : treatment what step his Department be take to support drug and alcohol addiction treatment service . I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his campaigning on this important issue — and indeed for speak so honestly about his own experience during his time in this House . an additional £ 267 million have be invest this year to improve the quality and capacity of drug and alcohol treatment and recovery . we be committed to correct the year of disinvestment in treatment and recovery service and ensure that people can access the support they need . the Minister have do it for I , but I alert colleague to my interest in this area . last month , the Advertising Standards Authority rule against seven company pose as treatment provider or impartial advice service or for fail to make clear their role in earn commission when they be in fact broker — and I can tell the Minister that many more such company escape that ruling . they be able to mislead family while take cut of up to 40 % of fee be pay directly to treatment provider . frankly , they have be able to run the sector like a racket . can we make sure that this ruling by the Advertising Standards Authority be the start of something new , where we can seek to regulate practice properly , and will the Minister meet I and interested party ? attempt to exploit people with addiction be reprehensible . free drug and alcohol treatment be available in every part of the country and I urge anyone who be struggle right now to visit the NHS addiction website . the Care Quality Commission have say that it could take legal action against company misuse its logo , and Google have say it would remove search listing from these company . I be more than happy to meet my hon . friend to see what more we can do to stop this outrageous activity . social prescribing be one of the primary care service provide for drug and alcohol addiction , and it also support the Government ' s aim of move from cure to prevention , which be why I be shocked to hear that a primary care network in my constituency be review its social prescribing offering across the Chichester district and propose to remove it entirely . do the Minister agree that social prescribing be a key pillar of our primary care service , and do the money use need to be ringfence to protect that service across the country ? social prescribing be one of the tool , and it be an important one in address public health concern in each of our constituency . this Government be commit to ensure that we get those shift from sickness to prevention . we will be ensure that local area have public health funding in reasonable time . we be about to announce , in due course , this year ' s allocation . we need to make sure that local system maximise the use of their money , and that certainly include social prescribing . in 2022 , there be more than 10 , 000 death from alcohol use . we know that more than 600 , 000 people have an alcohol dependency . we need to focus not just on treatment service and their funding , but on prevention . the last Government fail to bring forward a timely alcohol strategy . will the Minister update the House on what he be do to ensure that we be tackle this massive situation in our community ? my hon . friend raise an important point . as part of the Government ' s health mission , we be produce a five - point plan for prevention , and alcohol harm be one of those area . I hope to be able to update she and the House in due course on the action we will be take to drive down the prevalence of alcohol harm and other addiction , because they be cost life and cause misery in community . that be why this Government be determined to tackle these public health problem . I thank the Minister for his answer . while there be community addiction service for those over the age of 18 , worryingly , across this great United Kingdom , those under the age of 18 be succumb to alcohol addiction , too . there do not seem to be any provision for they . may I ask the Minister genuinely and helpfully what provision there will be for those under the age of 18 , because addiction problem be rise among the young generation ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . this Government be commit to have the healthy generation of child ever . that mean we will have a concerted effort on a whole range of health issue that determine the health and wellbeing of young people , which will hopefully ensure that they become healthy adult as a consequence . alcohol harm be certainly one of the consideration we will be look at . NHS Waiting Times what step his Department be take to help reduce NHS waiting time . this government be deliver on our commitment to cut NHS waiting list and end the Tory backlog . we have take immediate action with an additional £ 1 . 8 billion to support elective activity this year . that funding will support the delivery of our first step of 40 , 000 extra elective appointment a week . with investment must come reform , and the elective reform plan , publish yesterday and announce by the Prime Minister , set out how we will cut NHS wait to the 18 - week standard , increase productivity , reform the system and improve patient ' choice and control over their healthcare . almost one in six scot be stick on an NHS waiting list . People be borrow money and remortgage their home to go private , because they can not bear the pain . with an SNP Government who have abandon the principle of an NHS free at the point of entry , do my right hon . friend agree that Scotland ' s health service need a new direction ? I strongly agree with my hon . friend . as I say during the general election campaign — it be quote regularly by the SNP — all road lead to Westminster . down that road from Westminster be a record increase in funding for the Scottish Government through the Barnett formula . I know the Scottish Government publish their own NHS recovery plan just before Christmas , and I look forward to read it , although I know some have express concern about the lack of detail in the plan to drive down waiting time . the scottish people can therefore compare and contrast with the ambition of our elective reform plan , which be announce by the Prime Minister yesterday , and then decide at the next scottish election who they trust to govern : the SNP with its rotten record , or a Labour Government who will get on and deliver . the Secretary of State know that I write to he before Christmas about the plan ward closure and degradation of service at Goole and district general hospital . do so will take bed , facility and employee away from the national health service , which will do nothing but undermine his real attempt to reduce waiting list and all the plan he announce yesterday . will he look at the trust - level decision system that lead to such catastrophic decision that will undermine every aspect of NHS strategy and all that he be try to do ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for write to I before Christmas . I recognise the pressure that have be place on NHS commissioner in recent year and the pressure that that have put on service configuration . I tend to support the devolution of decision making , with decision about service reconfiguration take close to the community they serve . I recognise also that commissioner do not always get it right , which be why engagement with member of Parliament and other democratically elect representative be important . ministerial oversight be important , too . we will look seriously at the issue he raise and talk to NHS leader , and I know he will be do the same . this Government be determined to give NHS leader the tool to do the job , so that we can get the right care in the right place at the right time , with a well experience for patient and well value for taxpayer . I be sure my right hon . friend will share my delight at the fact that in our grow community of Thanet , the NHS be look to open the thanet integrate hub in one of the most deprived part of Kent . however , Tory - run Kent county council have put in spurious objection to the development . do he share my concern that such unnecessary objection block access to healthcare and make it hard for the Government and the NHS to cut waiting list ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for the work she be do to improve health and care service for her constituent . the Government be give health and care provider the tool to do the job . of course , change will take time , and it be therefore crucial that we all pull together locally and nationally . for the avoidance of doubt , the Government be on the side of the builder , not the blocker . the NHS Confederation have say that for the Government to be able to drive down waiting list , " the pause to the delivery of the new hospital programme must be as short as possible and NHS leader need clarity about timeline . " with that in mind , will the Secretary of State tell leader at Eastbourne district general hospital , as well as our community in Eastbourne , precisely when the new hospital programme review will be complete so that we can get crack with our upgrade ? I thank the hon . member for that question . I agree with he about the need for clarity as well as consistency . we undertake the review into the new hospital programme because the previous Government ' s timetable be a work of fiction and the money be not there . I hope to report to he and to the House shortly on that , with the undertaking that the timetable we publish and the funding provide by the Chancellor in the Budget and at the spending review will mean that we will provide not just clarity but consistency , which be important for NHS leader , important for patient and important for the construction industry partner we need to work with . I call the shadow Minister . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . [ interruption . ] I be sorry — that be the last time I will get call . thank you , Mr Speaker . yesterday , in relation to the elective backlog , the Secretary of State say : " where we can treat work people fast , we will , and we make no apology for do so . " — [ Official Report , 6 January 2025 ; Vol . 759 , c . 597 . ] labour politician have struggle to define what they mean by work people , but his word have cause anxiety . will he reassure those with disability that prevent they from work and retire elderly people who have work all their life that they will not be push to the back of the queue and that treatment will continue to be provide in the NHS on the basis of clinical need ? of course , clinical need be paramount and must always drive decision making about who to treat when and the order in which people be treat . that be why I find the question pose so deeply disingenuous . [ interruption . ] we inherit NHS waiting list at record level and waiting time that be frankly shameful . the shadow Minister should be apologise for her party ' s record , and she should also apologise for the two - tier healthcare system that see those who can afford it pay to go private and those who can not afford it — working - class people — be leave behind . that be the two - tier system that the Government be determined to end . order . can we be a bit careful with the language we be use ? the Secretary of State need to be careful with the word he use , as you say , Mr Speaker , because his word do cause anxiety among people . it be not a disingenuous question ; it be a genuine question to make sure that people be reassure . it will not have escape the Secretary of State ' s notice that it be cold outside . removal of the winter fuel allowance have reduce elderly people ' s ability to follow the advice that he give last week , which be to turn the heating on . what assessment have he make of the number of additional admission cause by his removal of the winter fuel allowance ? what effect be that have on the Government ' s ability to deliver their reduction in elective backlog ? what the shadow Minister neglect to mention be that the Chancellor have protect the winter fuel allowance for the poor pensioner , and she have also put in place the warm home discount to assist people with their energy bill throughout the winter . if the shadow Minister do not support the decision that the Chancellor take at the Budget and ahead of the Budget to raise vital investment for our health and care service , that be fair enough , but then she need to tell people which NHS service she would cut or which other taxis she would increase . Care Quality Commission whether he have make an assessment of the effectiveness of improvement make to the Care Quality Commission . in response to the report by Dr Penny Dash , we have make it clear that the CQC be not fit for purpose and require significant reform . we have increase our oversight of the CQC to ensure implementation of the recommendation in Dr Dash ' s review , and we will continue to monitor the CQC ' s progress through this period of improvement . we be also support the swift and efficient recruitment of CQC leadership role , include the new chief executive Julian Hartley , who start in December . it be inarguable that the CQC need improvement . many who run care service in local authority have little confidence in its performance . do my hon . friend agree that we could go some way to improve how it be view by look at the use of single - word assessment , which create undue stress for social service lead ? they be raise by the Dash review as insufficient to support local authority to improve , promote box - tick over real improvement and give little information to member of the public on the quality of social service provision . my hon . friend be right that confidence be the key word in the huge agenda that the CQC have to deliver . Dr Dash and Professor Mike Richards highlight serious failing that need to be re - address . as one of our predecessor say , priority be our language . currently , a review of one or two - word rating be not a priority , but it will be keep under review . be the Minister indicate today that there will be a new start in the Care Quality Commission , and that thing will change for both staff and the recipient of care ? the hon . Gentleman make an excellent point , particularly with regard to staff , who need support to continue their important work . a new start with new leadership be what they need , as well as implementation of the recommendation . Mental Health Services what step his Department be take to improve access to mental health service . what step his Department be take to improve access to mental health service . as Lord Darzi ' s independent investigation find , around 1 million people be wait to access mental health service in England . this government will fix our broken mental health service by recruit 8 , 500 more mental health worker , provide access to specialist mental health professional in every school and roll out young future hub in every community . in my constituency of Harrogate and Knaresborough we have hear harrowing story from people who have try to reach out and get access to mental health service before they reach crisis point . often , people end up face month - long if not year - long waiting list . when all too often they reach a crisis point , they end up have to access service as far away as Newcastle or Manchester . what be the Government do to make sure that we can root local community mental health facility in community such as Harrogate and Knaresborough ? in addition to the measure that I just set out , in the Budget the Chancellor make funding available to expand talk therapy to 380 , 000 extra patient . we have a £ 26 million capital investment scheme for mental health crisis centre and , as always with this Government , investment go with reform . we be finally reform the Mental Health Act — that be first talk about when Theresa May be in 10 Downing Street . this government be roll up their sleeve and get on with the job . Taunton and Wellington be a trailblazer in take mental health from hospital to community and from sickness to prevention . the trust be the first in the country to merge mental health with the hospital trust . will the Minister meet the trust and I to understand how successful that programme be , and to discuss the much need maternity and paediatric unit at Musgrove Park hospital ? it sound like there be some interesting , dynamic and innovative work go on in the area that the hon . Gentleman mention . I would be happy to meet he to discuss it far . I have just be visit by my former medical student , a young doctor in Yorkshire work in an intensive therapy unit , who tell I that 40 of the 50 patient who be admit with covid die . many healthcare worker be suffer from flashback and post - traumatic stress disorder . what measure will the Government take to look after the mental health of the healthcare worker who so bravely help we during the covid pandemic ? my hon . friend raise an important point , which provide an opportunity for we all to reflect on the incredible work of those work in our health service ; they be , in many way , hero , and we should absolutely acknowledge that fact . we need to explore the point he have raise — we could meet to discuss it far , or I would be happy to write to he . in England , more than 200 , 000 people be wait for an autism assessment in September 2024 . in my constituency , some adult have wait more than two year for an autism assessment , and one child have be wait eight year — and be still wait — to receive support from child and adolescent mental health service . these delay have a profound impact on people ' s life . will the Minister commit to the mental health investment standard and ensure that as the Government reduce waiting time , they do so for both physical and mental health service for young people and adult ? we remain absolutely committed to the mental health investment standard . we have prioritise the expansion of NHS talk therapy and individual placement and support scheme , and provide £ 26 million of capital funding to open new mental health centre . however , we be not complacent on this issue . my hon . Friend speak about autism assessment , which be a red light that be flash on my dashboard . I would be happy to discuss that far with she . counsellor and Psychotherapists whether his Department plan to improve integration of counsellor and psychotherapist into the mental health workforce . counsellor and psychotherapist form an integral part of the NHS mental health workforce , deliver support to people with mental ill health across a range of setting in service for both child and young people and adult . we will publish a refresh NHS long - term workforce plan to ensure that the NHS have the right people in the right place with the right skill to deliver the care that patient need . be there a plan to maintain service provision where psychotherapist and counsellor operate in the charity sector have be hit by eye - watering cost increase as a consequence of the national insurance increase ? as I have say in answer to previous question , and as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have say , there be something of a pattern emerge here : opposition member say that they welcome the investment the Government have make , but oppose the revenue - raise measure and refuse to set out whether they would increase taxis or cut service . I still have not hear an answer on that from those member . care Sector Salaries what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on staff salary in the care sector . this Government recognise the crisis in social care that we inherit , which be why over the past six month we have take step through the Budget to increase investment in social care , deliver the big expansion of the carer ' s allowance since the 1970 and invest in the disabled facility grant . of course , as my hon . friend allude to , we can not deliver great social care without the worker who deliver it . that be why I be proud that within our first 100 day , the care worker - turn - Deputy Prime Minister include fair pay agreement in her landmark Employment Rights Bill , so we can give our care staff not just the pay they deserve , but the professional status , recognise the hard work they do as care professional . that be a crucial step on our path to build a national care service . do the Secretary of State agree that the SNP ' s National Care Service ( Scotland ) Bill be a miss opportunity to improve pay and condition for social care worker , particularly when compare with Labour ' s Employment Rights Bill , which create the fair pay agreement for social care worker ? I agree with my hon . friend . I be proud that this Government have take quick action within our first 100 day . thank to the Employment Rights Bill , which be UK - wide legislation , this Labour Government in Westminster be give the Scottish Government the tool they need to do the job of establish fair pay for care staff . if they do not do it , Anas Sarwar and Jackie Baillie will . in north - east Lincolnshire , a social enterprise employ 800 staff provide health and social care . I have be approach by many staff who be unhappy that they have not benefit from the increase that NHS staff have gain . they have the support of the Royal College of Nursing and be look for the Government to provide Care Plus Group , which employ they , with the resource to ensure that they be recompense to the same level . what be the Secretary of State able to pass on to they ? I be grateful to the hon . member for that question . with our fair pay agreement , we will be bring together government , public and private sector employer and staff trade union to negotiate the future for fair pay agreement that will benefit care worker across the system and give they the professional status and career progression they deserve . the Chancellor , through the Budget , also take step to ensure that we could invest in our social care service . I be deeply sadden that the conservative party have not support that investment . I call Dame Emily Thornberry — congratulation ! maternity Leave how many and what proportion of NHS employee have receive enhanced maternity leave entitlement under Agenda for Change contract . I thank my new Dame Friend for her question . the Department do not collect datum on the number of people who have specifically receive enhanced maternity leave entitlement . access to an enhanced maternity leave benefit form part of the total reward package for Agenda for Change staff , which we believe be critical for retain our much - value and need NHS workforce . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . doctor throughout the NHS , no matter who employ they , have blanket maternity agreement , but nurse do not . when I visit the River Place health centre , I find that nurse employ by Whittington Health be work alongside nurse employ by the GP practice who get completely different maternity leave and pay . as we turn out our hospital into the community and do much more work in that way , such anomaly will get bad . it be not fair and I wonder what my hon . friend be go to do about it . my right hon . friend highlight a problem throughout the system , not just in her area . self - employ contractor to NHS gp surgery be not bind by national term and condition ; they can develop their term and condition as they see fit . they have the flexibility to set term and condition to aid recruitment and retention . we anticipate that good employer will set wage rate and term and condition that reflect the skill and experience of their staff . that be well for staff and for patient , and I know that she will continue to highlight that with her local employer . it be certainly something that we need to keep an eye on as we develop service far . start for Life Services what step he be take to extend Start for life service to South Cambridgeshire constituency . we believe that every child deserve the good start in life . due to the challenging fiscal context , we be initially prioritise family hub and start for life fund to area of high deprivation . we will consider the case for extension to South Cambridgeshire in future financial year . we know how important the good start in life be for opportunity for all . only half upper - tier local authority currently receive prioritise Start for life and family hub funding — 78 do not . in South Cambridgeshire , officer be do huge work to provide support and signpost without dedicated funding , which mean that baby , young parent and young family do not receive the full benefit . will the Minister commit , in the next spending review , to extend these service across the whole of England ? local authority be pre - select use the income deprivation affect child index average rank score , with a rural and urban weighting apply . tackle child inequality in health and outcome be crucial . as resource allow , it be the ambition of the Government to ensure that Start for life service reach every child . National Cancer Plan : Brain Tumours what step he be take to ensure that brain tumour be include in the national cancer plan . let I start by commend the hon . gentleman for his fundraising effort to fight cancer in Surrey and his support for the Brain Tumour Charity . we be committed to ensure that people with brain tumour have access to more effective treatment and excellent care through , for instance , our national cancer plan , and we will give more detail shortly . I thank the Minister for his answer , and for his googling of my background ! early detection be essential in ensure that brain tumour do not fall far behind other cancer in priority . will the Minister update we on the Government ' s progress to ensure that screening be prioritise ? we absolutely want to ensure early detection of these cancer , and I recently meet representative of the Brain Tumour Charity to discuss how we can roll that out . the Government be invest an awful lot of money in tackle cancer , but there be a great deal more that we can do on brain cancer . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . we have be busy announce investment in hospice , an uplift in funding for general practice , action through disabled facility grant and a new independent commission on adult social care , and yesterday the Prime Minister announce the elective care reform plan . as I have say , however , the NHS be experience a period of significant winter challenge . the number of bed occupy by people with flu have be much high than the number last year , and be continue to rise . an average of just over 4 , 200 bed be occupy by flu patient at the end of December , surpass the peak of about 2 , 500 report last year . we monitor the situation closely , work hand in hand with NHS England and care leader , and I continue to chair weekly meeting with senior leader in social care , NHS England and the UK Health Security Agency . I be sure the Secretary of State will share my shock and anger about the number of young people in my constituency who be wait more than four year for a first assessment by child and adult mental health service . can he confirm that yesterday ' s commitment by the Prime Minister that patient would not wait more than 18 week for a first appointment will apply to CAMHS in Oxfordshire ? we be determined to improve child and young people ' s experience of both mental and physical health service , and we be determined to do more to ensure that mental health and paediatric wait be put under the spotlight and give the same attention as the overall elective backlog . I be sure we will have more to say about that when we publish the 10 - year plan . I pay tribute to my constituent Sheila and Joe Ward , who have long campaign for vaccine - injure people and bereaved family follow the death of their husband and father . the vaccine damage payment scheme have receive 16 , 824 claim . when can people who be still mourn the loss of love one expect to receive the compensation that they deserve ? in September the Secretary of State and I meet the family of people who have suffer harm follow the covid - 19 vaccination , include my hon . friend ' s constituent Sheila Ward , and they raise the need for reform of the vaccination damage scheme . we listen closely to their description of what they have be through and agree to look at a number of option , note that cross - cut government decision might be necessary . we be also work with the NHS Business Services Authority to improve claimant ’ experience of the scheme , and to ensure that claim be process quickly . order . may I remind member not to walk past when the Minister be reply to a question ? please have regard for each other ; this set a bad example . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Prime Minister ' s announcement yesterday of his elective recovery plan mirror that of Sir Saijd Javid in 2022 , but one aspect be different . our plan explicitly recognise the importance of the workforce be in place to deliver the 9 million extra test and interpret the result , and it set out proposal to increase that workforce far . what plan have the Secretary of State to boost the workforce in community diagnostic centre specifically , over and above the plan that he inherit from we , to ensure that his elective recovery plan be deliverable ? the shadow Secretary of State be right to say that we need staff in place to do the job . the additional funding announce by the Chancellor in the Budget be central to the delivery of this plan — I note that he oppose that funding , which be deeply regrettable — but we need to improve productivity as well . that be why the plan set out step to free up patient appointment that be unnecessary or of low clinical value , but , crucially , staff time in productivity gain be also important , so as well as make the most of the additional investment , we be make the most of deliver value for taxpayer ' money — order . please help I a little bit . you have have a good run today — don ' t spoil it . on hospice , while the Secretary of State ' s pre - Christmas hospice funding announcement be , of course , welcome , the vast bulk of it be in fact non - recur capital funding , which can not be use to help they cover the hiked employer national insurance tax on hospice ' most precious asset : their staff . what step be he take to ensure that they receive recur revenue funding , to enable they to cover the additional cost ? the £ 100 million capital investment we set out before Christmas be the big boost to hospice funding in a generation , and it come on top of the £ 26 million that we announce for the child and young people ' s hospice grant . the right hon . Gentleman can not welcome the investment and keep oppose the mean of raise it . would he cut service or raise other taxis ? he have get to answer . Pharmacy First be an incredibly popular service that have allow many resident in Chatham and Aylesford to be refer for illness or urgent repeat medicine supply . can the Minister indicate whether there warrant a further review and expansion of this offering , to include further access to medicine , include those to treat common dental condition with bacterial infection , so that patient with these very painful emergency need can seek immediate over - the - counter appointment ? can member please remember that these be topical question ? we be make a priority of resume consultation with the sector to stabilise community pharmacy . Pharmacy First have build on exist service to increase the clinical scope . the condition treat under Pharmacy First vary across the UK , and the NHS will keep this under review . when we think of social care , we often think of those who be old , but at a recent advice surgery I meet the mother of a 20 - year - old with complex need that local service be unable to meet , so the only option that would allow he to engage with his peer be residential care far afield , take he away from his family . will the Minister meet with I , my constituent and his mother to discuss how we ensure that those with complex need be properly support ? I be sure the hon . Lady will welcome the fact that we have find an £ 86 million uplift for the disabled facility grant , but on the specific question she raise , I would be happy to meet she and discuss that far . group such as Action for I and Long Covid Support tirelessly advocate for improved care for over 2 million people live in the UK . how will the Minister ensure that NHS reform deliver timely diagnosis , effective treatment and long - term support for those affect ? my hon . friend raise a really important point . NHS England be due to complete a stocktake of long covid service throughout England at the end of this month . that will provide an accurate in - depth overview of not only long covid service but I / cf — myalgic encephalomyelitis / chronic fatigue syndrome — service . the stocktake will provide a comprehensive and accurate national picture , identify key challenge and make strategic recommendation for future service improvement , development and assurance . since 2017 I have be raise the crisis face East Kent hospital university NHS foundation trust . seven different Health Secretaries across those seven year have promise much but deliver nothing at all . patient continue to face unacceptably long wait on trolley in corridor , and last month the paper compare these condition to a war zone , with an average of 40 very ill patient a day face more than 12 - hour wait . will the Secretary of State meet I and the ceo of our trust , who be desperate for even the most basic diagnostic equipment , to ensure that this do not continue to be the case for another seven year ? yes , I or the Minister of State for Health would be delighted to meet the hon . member . she be right to describe the scale of challenge in urgent and emergency care . of course , there be other challenge in east Kent , particularly in maternity service , which I be acutely aware of too , and I would be delighted to work with she to help solve some of those challenge in her community . the Family Dental Practice in my constituency have face significant challenge cause by dental contract introduce by the previous Government . the pilot scheme it take part in cause long - last operational financial damage to the practice . how will the Secretary of State support such practice , and will he consider measure such as rebase the unit of dental activity target to help they overcome these challenge ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : the NHS dental contract simply be not work . we be work with the sector to reform the contract , with a shift to focus on prevention and the retention of NHS dentist . we will deliver on our pledge to provide 700 , 000 more urgent dental appointment at the early possible opportunity , target area that need they most . one in five social care job in Cumbria be currently unfilled , and the consequence be unbearable for those who be vulnerable ; indeed , they be cause pressure on the rest of the NHS . will the Secretary of State look carefully at the specific need of rural community such as our , where it be so much hard to recruit and retain social care worker ? I be in Cumbria recently , and I be strike by the fact that the care home I visit in Carlisle be deliver great intermediate care for the NHS at half the price of a hospital bed — a really good example of how social care often deliver well value and well care . however , the hon . Gentleman be right about the recruitment challenge . we be determined to work with local training provider and the local university to make sure that we recruit social care worker , grow our own in Cumbria and keep they in Cumbria . the East of England ambulance service NHS trust remain at the high escalation level — level 4 — as call handler in Bedford remain under immense pressure after respond to 39 , 000 call between Christmas and new year . despite the unprecedented demand , the trust be consider close the Bedford emergency operation centre , put nearly 200 job at risk . give that resource be already stretch to the limit in Bedford , do the Secretary of State agree that we must keep experienced staff who have help to save countless life in the region ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the particular problem in his constituency . decision on the configuration of call centre be a matter for local trust in consultation with staff and representative , and I encourage he to continue to engage with the trust in the interest of his constituent . will the additional money announce for hospice before Christmas cover the full cost of the increase in employer ' s national insurance contribution or not ? the Conservatives can not , on the one hand , welcome the investment and , on the other hand , condemn the mean of raise it . would they cut NHS and care service , or would they raise other taxis ? they have to answer . I thank my right hon . friend for secure the land purchase for the new hospital in Lancaster . will he meet I to discuss how a new hospital will transform health outcome for my constituent ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend . she be literally the first person to lobby I immediately after the general election , about her hospital , have already lobby I before . I be delighted that , thank to her effort , we have be able to deliver for her community ; indeed , thank to your effort , Mr Speaker , we have do so for yours too . I would be delighted to meet she . Becky ' s son will be a normal , happy teenager until he suffer multiple covid infection . his mother try to find out what be wrong with he , but she find that there be no paediatric long covid care service in Kent . will the Minister update the House on whether Kent , with a population of 2 million , will ever get a paediatric long covid service ? I be very sorry to hear about the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . I know at first hand how complex and debilitate long covid can be . as I mention in an early answer , there be a stocktake taking place , which should show where there be deficiency , but let I be clear : I want to ensure that there be good service for people suffer with long covid in every part of England . the Isle of Wight do not just have a problem with its ferry , as the House would expect ; we also have a huge problem with dentistry . we be a true dental desert . however , the size of our community mean that we be an ideal place to try new approach to dentistry , especially for child . will the Minister meet I to discuss those approach and improve dentistry on the island ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to describe the Isle of Wight as a dental desert . that be perhaps one of the reason why the good people of that island elect a Labour Member for the first time in history . our ambition be to make sure that everyone who need a dentist can get one . sadly , 28 % of adult in England — 13 million people — have an unmet need for NHS dentistry . I would be glad to meet my hon . friend to learn more about how the experience of the Isle of Wight can improve service nationally . prostate cancer be the most common cancer in man , yet it have no national screening programme . we work on this issue in government , and I thank the Secretary of State for take an interest in this area . will he join I in commend Prostate Cancer Research ' s excellent new report and urge his team to consider the finding , not least on increase screening of at - risk group so that we can not just save the NHS money but , more importantly , save thousand of life ? I welcome the former Prime Minister ' s question , and he be right to commend the research . we be actively look at it . give that he be here and that we be currently take through the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , I thank he for his leadership on that issue . the last Government treat mental health as a Cinderella service , with my constituent wait day in A & E to be admit to hospital mental health ward . the Solace Centre in Ealing Southall provide help and support in the community for those with mental health problem , at a fraction of the cost of a hospital stay . how do the Minister intend to move more mental health service from hospital to the community , and to create more great service like the Solace Centre ? I thank my hon . friend for her excellent question . she be right that it be vital to move service from hospital to community . the Chancellor make funding available for 380 , 000 more talk therapy for patient and put in place a £ 26 million capital investment scheme for mental health crisis centre . a lot of work have be do , but there be a lot more still to do . will the Secretary of State confirm what be be do to ensure that patient with rare and complex condition , such as functional neurologic disorder and achalasia , can access consistent and co - ordinate care , include referral to the multidisciplinary team they need for the different symptom they experience ? the hon . member be right to raise case where there be multiple comorbiditie or complex condition require a range of care service . that be why we need to design service around the patient , not expect patient to contort themselves around the service . our approach to neighbourhood health service should make a real difference in that regard , but we have to go far and fast on health and care integration , and we absolutely will . order . I call Kevin McKenna to ask the final question . I strongly welcome yesterday ' s announcement about use initiative such as community diagnostic centre to move service close to the public . in the Isle of Sheppey , we be particularly expose as a coastal community , but thankfully a new CDC will really help . unfortunately , my experience in the NHS over the past few year show that while the previous Government talk the talk about shift care to the community , they fail to deliver . will the Secretary of State set out what step will be take , so I can show my constituent that this shift will actually happen ? I be delighted to have my hon . friend and his experience in the House , stand up for his community and give we his advice and wisdom as we develop our 10 - year plan . we be already walk the talk on the shift to community , not least through the big uplift in funding for general practice announce before Christmas . many people assume our elective reform plan be just about hospital waiting list , but a big part of it be about deliver the left shift by ask and fund general practice to do more to manage patient in the community . northern Gaza ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth , and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the situation in northern Gaza . the situation in northern Gaza be dire . the UK condemn Israel ' s restriction on aid in the strong term . the scale of human suffering be unimaginable . we have be clear that this be a man - make crisis and Israel must act immediately to address it . the need for humanitarian assistance to reach Gaza be great than ever before . close to 46 , 000 people have now be kill . all of Gaza ' s population be report to face the risk of famine . air strike within the designate humanitarian zone show there be no safe space leave for civilian . report of up to eight child have die from the cold weather condition be unconscionable . it be unacceptable that many medical facility be no long in use or be inaccessible to humanitarian actor , and we remain deeply concerned by report of medic be kill or injure . I have raise this , and will continue to raise this , with both the israeli Deputy Foreign Minister and Israel ' s ambassador to the United Kingdom . I have also specifically raise the detention of Kamal Adwan Hospital director Dr Hussam Abu Safiya with both the israeli Deputy Foreign Minister and Israel ' s ambassador to the UK . we urge Israel to urgently clarify the reason for his detention , as well as for the detention of paediatrician Mohammed Hamouda and all the other health worker detain in Gaza . the UK be do all we can to alleviate this suffering . we have provide £ 112 million for the Occupied Palestinian Territories this financial year , include £ 41 million for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , provide vital service to civilian in Gaza and the west bank , and to Palestinians across the region , deliver through partner agency . the UK be also support the provision of essential healthcare to civilian in Gaza , include support to UK - Med for operate its field hospital , and we have provide £ 1 million to the Egyptian Ministry of Health to support medically evacuate Palestinians from Gaza . the Foreign Secretary , work with his french and german counterpart , write to the Government of Israel in November to press they to ensure adequate preparation for winter . make no mistake : in lockstep with our partner , we be continue to exert pressure to make sure that northern Gaza be not cut off from the south , that Gazans be not forcibly transfer from or within Gaza , and that there be no reduction in the territory of the Gaza strip . we need a ceasefire , we need hostage to be release , we need much more aid into Gaza , and we need civilian to be protect . over 450 day on , we all know the statistic — 45 , 000 Palestinians kill , 100 hostage miss , 2 . 3 million people desperate — but I want to tell a single human story . I have previously speak about my friend , consultant surgeon Mohamed , who operate on I when I have sepsis . his family be trap in the Jabalia refugee camp . they be elderly and sick . one be a three - year - old girl . he have describe how there be body strew in the street . I be sorry to report that death do not come knock this weekend . rather , it be drop by a precision drone as Mohamed ' s brother and his son walk 10 metre to get aid . the son die of a brain injury , two 13 - year - old girl and their mother have shrapnel wound , and Mohamed ' s elderly father , who be already ill , be in hospital . a three - year - old , her mother and Mohamed ' s mother be alone in a house with no one to help they get food . these be obviously not militant — they be sick . they be not legitimate target of war . there be no excuse for this . Mohamed tell I it feel like they be live in " the Hunger Games , " dodge drone and scavenging for the basic . even if they want to leave , how can they ? what part of international law make any of this okay ? where be the accountability ? where be the justice ? what do the Minister have to say to Mohamed , who spend his day save life here in the UK while his family be slaughter overnight ? and it be not just Mohamed . People in Gaza be trap in a doom loop of hell — hospital decimate , and ceasefire promise and never deliver . so I press the Government again : be this really everything the UK have get ? have we deploy everything to make this stop ? when will we recognise Palestine ? why have we not stop the arm trade to Israel ? and when will the Government ban trading with illegal settlement ? the frustration be palpable . our grief be fathomless . People across the UK be look on in horror , and the horror in Gaza must stop now . the hon . Member speak passionately about a situation that so few in this House could even imagine . my thought be with Mohamed ' s family and the many , many other woman , child and civilian who be catch up in this war . I have see for myself the injure child across the border in Sinai . they be the lucky one who have be able to leave the strip to access medical assistance . the whole Foreign Office ministerial team have these people in our mind each and every day . I have be engage through the break , as many other have , recognise that for most people in Palestine there be no break from a truly dreadful situation . the hon . Member ask what I have to say to Mohamed , and I be incredibly sorry for the loss that people be suffer in Palestine . I be incredibly sorry that we continue to assess that there be a serious risk of breach of international humanitarian law in Gaza . we be do everything we can to try to prevent and reduce they in relation to the arm that she mention . we have take decisive action to reduce the sale of weapon be use in the conduct of the hostility in Gaza , the west bank and Lebanon , and will continue to keep the matter under review . I can only join with the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon in reach out to those in Palestine in this situation . we have do much ; we recognise there be much more to do . my heart go out to those people . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . may I begin by pay tribute to the bravery of the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) in continue to fight for the population in Gaza , even as her own family and friend be suffer ? my Committee be currently undertake an inquiry into the Israel - Palestine conflict , and we have hear again and again from witness , include both israeli and palestinian voice , that the UK could , in fact , be do more to bring the conflict to an end . we have also hear from witness , include the former Member for North East Bedfordshire , who be also the very respected former Minister for the middle east , that where UK action have come , it have be too little and too late . while I know that the Minister be unable to comment on any ongoing negotiation , I would like to know this : what role be the UK playing in convene post - conflict discussion and what do he see as a viable , long - term resolution for Gaza ? this Government have take a very different approach from the one that come before we . we have take immediate , rapid action , call for a ceasefire , make decision on arm , which have already be mention , increase the amount of aid available to the Occupied Palestinian Territories , be absolutely steadfast in our support to UNWRA and restore funding that have be cut . let we not think that there be no difference between the policy position take by the Ministers here on the Front Bench and those that come before we . my predecessor , mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , be a good and wise man who have do much in the service of his country . yet let we not have any illusion ; there be a difference between what a Labour Government have do in relation to the middle east and what our predecessor do . I reassure my right hon . friend that we be very engaged in the question about what must happen next in Gaza . clearly , Gaza need a solution that work for its people , where Gaza be govern by the Palestinians under their own legitimate authority , in safety and security . there be a wide range of international view about how we might get to that objective , and we be play our full part diplomatically to try and ensure that there be consensus . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I thank the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) for secure this urgent question . innocent civilian in Gaza be suffer and the situation be desperate ; everyone in the House recognise that and we all want aid and support to reach they . do the Minister also recognise that innocent civilian be be use continuously as human shield by Hamas , which have no regard for their safety or welfare ? there be no excuse for the current situation . [ interruption . ] perhaps the hon . member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) can listen to my comment and then he can comment afterwards . get aid over the border be absolutely critical . in the light of the Minister ' s word , he will also recognise , notwithstanding his comment about the previous Conservative Government , that that Government actively identify different way to get aid into Gaza and secure food aid in particular . a special representative for humanitarian affair be appoint , who be on the ground with a clear remit to address bottleneck and those issue . there be clear proposal put to the Government of Israel to increase the delivery of aid and support . there be active dialogue and Israel make a number of significant and welcome commitment . will the Minister give detail of the recent engagement on fulfil those vital commitment , how those responsible be be hold to account and whether the Foreign Office , under his government , have identify and propose new and alternative route for aid delivery in recent week ? importantly , the only other way to bring this appalling humanitarian conflict and suffering to a sustainable end in Gaza be for Hamas to release all the hostage . I appreciate that we have debate this difficult matter previously , but may I ask the Minister what discussion be currently take place ? the onus , as we know , be on Hamas , but what step be the Government take right now ? there be many hostage that we know of , include Emily Damari whom we have speak about before . all our thought be with those hostage and their family . we must know what the UK ' s position be , especially in relation to call out Hamas . US Secretary of State Antony Blinken be right to say at the weekend that we have not see a great deal of condemnation . may I conclude by ask the Minister what point of influence we have with Israel in particular and what his Government be do to address this conflict ? the shadow Foreign Secretary rightly raise the important role of the special representative for humanitarian affair . he remain in post and continue to have dialogue with the Israelis and other about what can be do to ensure that adequate aid get into Gaza . there have be a great deal of discussion about different route . I have be to North Sinai to see the route in through al - Arish , and my right hon . friend the Minister for Development have be in Jordan to see the route there . the most fundamental of all of these question be who control the crossing . in most case , that be the israeli Government and the step that need to be take sit most acutely with they . there be , of course , other question that be important and relevant , not least those to do with law and order in the Gaza strip , where there be serious and concern report of looting . none the less , get the aid in be vital , and that be through the crossing . we have be raise these point forcefully with the israeli Government , and it have be disappointing to see with my own eye british aid pile up in al - Arish , despite the good effort of the special envoy and other to encourage the Israelis to make progress in deliver the flood of aid into Gaza that they promise . rise — sorry , I be just take a breath . on the vital question about hostage , we be continue to use all of our influence to try to ensure an early resolution to the crisis , which have be go on for far , far too long . we must work each and every day to try to advance that situation . clearly , give the degree of tactical leaking to the press about the late talk , I do not want to comment on press report . I call the Chair of International Development Committee . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this question . I also thank the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) for all the work that she have do try to highlight the horror that be go on in the region . what assessment have the Government make of Israel ' s action in the Netzarim corridor , which Israel have clear of palestinian civilian in order to construct military road and position . one senior israeli official tell Haaretz that the area have be designate as a " kill zone " , with anyone who enter be shoot . the same officer tell Haaretz that civilian be knowingly kill and later designate as terrorist . with competition between military unit regard who can cause the most casualty , what assessment have the Minister make of these allege war crime , and can he tell I what we be do to document and to stop they ? Mr Speaker , as you would expect , my Department take careful stock of all report , include those that my hon . friend mention , and we include they as part of our regular assessment . we have conclude one of those assessment recently , and I have already update the House on that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) for her powerful and sustained advocacy for Palestinians . clearly , the situation in northern Gaza be utterly dire . we need to see action from the Government in the face of a dreadful and worsen situation . at the end of December , israeli force close Kamal Adwan , the last functional hospital in northern Gaza , forcibly remove patient and detain its director Dr Abu Safiya . the Minister say that he have raise this matter with the israeli Deputy Foreign Minister and the ambassador , but what consequence do he spell out to they if Israel fail to meet its obligation to protect civilian and sustain access to healthcare in northern Gaza ? the Minister also refer to israeli airstrike in the allegedly safe zone . I have on previous occasion ask the Foreign Secretary to look again at a full ban on arm sale . will the Minister now do so ? we will only see an end to violence with a ceasefire , so can the Minister update the House on progress towards the release of the israeli hostage hold by Hamas and a last ceasefire ? finally , in the light of deep concern about the direction that this conflict might take under the second trump presidency and follow remark make by israeli Government Ministers about annexation and action on the ground in the west bank to extend illegal settlement , do the Minister agree that now be the moment to recognise Palestine on the 1967 border ? let I take the hon . member ' s question in turn . on arm sale , we have be clear , and I be pleased to reiterate that clarity today , that we have take step in relation to the weapon at issue in Gaza . we keep that under regular review , but we have take clear , principled step . if the question relate to the F - 35 programme , I be happy to reiterate that we carve out that provision because there be no other way to meet our obligation in relation to international peace and security , and that remain the position . on the matter of a ceasefire , effort be ongoing . we hope to see an early resolution , but I be afraid that we have be here many time before . these be incredibly fraught talk . flexibility need to be show on all side . the violence have go on for far too long . we want an immediate ceasefire , which we have call for since we come into Government . I have raise the situation in Kamal Adwan and the wide matter about the provision of healthcare in northern Gaza . I have be clear with the israeli Government about their obligation under international humanitarian law to ensure that proper medical assistance be available to Gazan people . they be entitle to that and those obligation be clear in international law . I have make that clear to the Israelis , as well as what the consequence will be internationally if those obligation be not meet . the hon . Member also raise a question about illegal settlement . I be pleased to repeat our position : we do not support the annexation of Gaza ; we support the 1967 boundary ; and we deplore illegal settlement , which be why we take sanction against they late last year . I thank the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) for secure this urgent question ; it be indeed urgent . at the UN , the UK call for Israel to abide by UNSC resolution 2286 on the protection of civilian and healthcare . it be clear that Israel be not abide by that resolution , so with the word have be utter and ignore , what will the Government now do to ensure that Israel be hold to account for its action ? we could not be clear , either publicly or privately , about what expectation fall on Israel in relation to health provision . I have raise these issue , the Foreign Secretary have raise these issue , and my ministerial colleague have raise these issue . it be a source of enormous frustration to the ministerial team that , this far into the conflict , we be still have to raise these issue , and we will continue to do so until there be some resolution . and that resolution must enable great healthcare for the Palestinians of Gaza and the wide region . Mr Speaker , you and I have be through this rigmarole many time over the past 14 month . I be go to ask today about the fate of Dr Abu Safiya , but I think we all know what will happen to he . I be go to ask about the baby who be freeze to death while blanket be be deny entry into Gaza , but I do not think we will be able to do much about that . the same apply to the denial of access for cancer medication , anaesthetic , or crutch or , indeed , the bombing of every single hospital . the Minister say that he and his team be frustrated , but give the partial application of international law and the Government ' s unwillingness to take any significant step to either compel the imposition of a ceasefire or compliance with international law , rather than be frustrate , be he not ashamed that million of people in this country and around the world believe that there be an inherent racism at the heart of british foreign policy in this regard that say that palestinian life matter much less than any other life , or indeed than israeli life ? and if he and the Minister for Development , who have answer these statement before , be ashamed , why be they hang on to their red folder ? why be they not stand down and compelling the Government actually to do something active and physical to save these life ? there be place where I will take lesson about shame , but it be not from the Conservative Benches , and particularly not on this issue . if they want to give I a hard time about what be be do in relation to the people in Gaza , they should turn to their own record , whether that be on aid into Gaza , the ICC or the ICJ . these be sober issue and we deal with they with the sobriety they require , and I would appreciate , particularly from the Conservative Benches , question of that tone . in November , the Israel Defence Forces make an official statement that they be get close to the complete evacuation of northern Gaza and that Palestinians will not be permit to return home . in December , doctor without Borders report on the clear sign of ethnic cleansing in the north of Gaza . only last week , the resident of Beit Hanan be order to leave the area . ethnic cleansing be take place before our very eye , and the world remain silent . will the Minister confirm that Israel must allow Palestinians to return to northern Gaza and that any settlement there would be illegal ? I can confirm that it be the view of the Government that Palestinians must be able to travel freely between north and south Gaza , that there can be no far illegal settlement , and that we will continue to condemn that in the way we do in the west bank . there must be no annexation of Gaza . do the Government acknowledge that what be happen in northern Gaza be a campaign of ethnic cleansing ? if the Minister do not , what would he call it ? we have be incredibly clear about the position in northern Gaza and about our deep concern in relation to healthcare provision , aid go into the area , the targeting of healthcare professional , the detention , the importance of transparency where people have be take , ensure that they have adequate right to see their lawyer , and that the icrc can see people . the situation in northern Gaza be close to our mind . we have comment extensively throughout the winter period , and we will continue to do so . have listen to evidence on Gaza as a member of the International Development Committee , it be clear to I that there have be egregious breach of international law . while I do not doubt the integrity and sincerity of my hon . friend , it be clear that the action take so far by the Government have either not shift the dial an inch or make I question how much bad it would be . besides rhetorically support an international court , what will the Government do to help gather evidence to protect witness and ensure that there be justice and accountability ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question , although I take issue with it . this government have do more than rhetoric , whether it be the £ 13 million of funding we announce in December ; the £ 112 million of funding for the Occupied Palestinian Territories ; the quite different position we have take on question of international justice , compare with our predecessor ; or the extensive funding we provide to the ICC each year to ensure that it can do its work . I want to be clear that we do not specify that the funding be in relation to Gaza ; we give it so that the ICC can pursue its work without fear or favour globally , and we will continue to do so . the aggressor in this situation be the terrorist in Hamas . the one who take and continue to hold hostage be the terrorist in Hamas . do the Minister therefore agree that the only concrete way to end this horror be for those terrorist in Hamas to release the remain hostage , and that talk of an unconditional ceasefire give those terrorist no incentive to free those innocent people ? Hamas be terrorist and they should release the hostage immediately . there be an estimate 50 , 000 pregnant woman in Gaza , with more than 180 birth take place every day . none of we can imagine the hell of Gaza , let alone be pregnant in it . ultimately , we need a ceasefire , but the health system be on its knee . will the Minister expand on whether he have specifically raise the issue of woman and girl and how our aid be be target to support access to sexual and reproductive health service ? we have raise those issue specifically , but I want to be straightforward with the House : we be clear that insufficient aid of all kind be get into Gaza . on almost any question that the House might put to I , there be insufficient aid , insufficient equipment and insufficient provision for people to be exist in Gaza under those condition , and we will continue to raise that with force with the Israelis for as long as that situation remain . exactly a year ago , Lord Cameron , when talk about the situation in northern Gaza , tell the Foreign Affairs Committee that " the conflict be now effectively over there " . unfortunately , no one seem to have tell Tel Aviv , because baby be still freeze to death and the last hospital have be destroy . in that year , while the face on the Government Benches might have change , the UK ' s complicity in the mass killing of Palestinians remain as it have be . give that nothing have change , do the Minister genuinely believe that in another year from now he will be able to say that continue to arm the IDF be moral and legal ? if word be to have meaning , clearly our policy be different from that of those on the Opposition Benches , as I think they would accept . I do not want to see this conflict continue for another year . the Palestinians can not wait . we be do everything we can . we have be call for an immediate ceasefire since we come into government . we will continue to take step to try to advance that call . I be leave numb by the word a doctor write on a whiteboard in the Al - Awda hospital in Gaza before he be kill by an israeli air strike , which say : " whoever stay until the end will tell the story . we do what we could . please remember we . " we need to know that we do all we could . I know the Minister and his Department be pull every lever available , but please can we have an extra push to get the ceasefire deal over the line ? we need to put an end to this horror . I remember those word from the whiteboard , and we must and will spare no effort and will strain every sinew to try to do what we can to advance the ceasefire as quickly as possible . it be already far too late . I be pleased that the Prime Minister recently meet UNRWA ' s Commissioner - General Lazzarini and pledge further funding , but in three week legislation to ban UNRWA will come into force . Lazzarini have say that " dismantle UNRWA will collapse the United Nations ' humanitarian response " in Gaza and that the " entire population … fear that their only remain lifeline will be cut . " he also comment that : " since the beginning of the war in Gaza , israeli official have describe dismantle UNRWA as a war goal . " will the Minister set out what consequential step the UK will take if that come into effect ? the Prime Minister be the first Prime Minister to meet the Commissioner - General of UNRWA . he do so in a week when we have announce further funding for UNRWA . we have raise those vital question with the israeli Government . we do so over the course of the break . I myself have meet Commissioner - General Lazzarini , and I will be say more about UNRWA in the come week if we be not in a position to see that the Israelis have take the action necessary to ensure the sustained and continued support that Palestinians require and which only UNRWA can provide . not one single hospital now operate in northern Gaza . Healthcare staff continue to be target , result in the death of even more innocent civilian . we have hear the Minister , but surely what we be do be not enough . what can we do to stop the systemic dismantling of the hospital in Gaza ? my hon . friend be right that what we have do be not enough , and we know it be not enough because the provision be so poor in northern Gaza . we be distress by the scene in northern Gaza and by the circumstance that hon . member have describe . we will continue to work as hard as we can , both in relation to UNRWA and directly with the israeli Government , to try to ensure that the aid provision , include medical provision , be provide with urgency . the current situation be not good enough . of course Israel have the right to defend itself , but surely the life of a palestinian child be as precious as the life of an israeli child , and it be a breach of international humanitarian law for fuel , food and energy to be cut off from ordinary Palestinians . will the Minister confirm to the House that the UK Government have an independent foreign policy on Israel and Gaza , and that it be set in Whitehall , not in Washington ? Britain have an independent foreign policy set by the Foreign Office Ministers and the Prime Minister — I be happy to confirm that to the House . of course , for this Government the value of a palestinian life be exactly the same as that of an israeli life , and we deplore all the civilian suffering that we have see in this conflict , which , as I say , have go on for far too long . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker . one of the most appalling aspect of this conflict have be Israel ' s reckless disregard not just for civilian life but for that of medical practitioner and patient . Kamal Adwan hospital , the last major facility in northern Gaza , be now out of service , as member have say . patient have be move to the nearby but non - functional and partially destroy indonesian hospital , and be unable to receive care because of a lack of necessary equipment and supply . will the Minister confirm that Israel ' s action have clearly breach international law , and that a consequence of that will be the continued suspension of weapon sale to Israel when it come to Gaza ? we be follow the situation closely . I raise the circumstance of those hospital with the Deputy Foreign Minister on 23 December . I confirm that all the development in the conflict be consider as part of the regular assessment process and contribute to the assessment that we make . report after report from reputable organisation — the most recent be Amnesty International — have conclude that Israel ' s action in Gaza be genocidal in nature . the scale of destruction in northern Gaza have now be describe as much bad than that in the aftermath of Hiroshima . will the Government change their position and identify that Israel ' s action in Gaza be indeed genocidal in nature , and what action will be take give the grave nature of those fact ? determination of genocide and war crime be properly matter for international court and , as the House know , there be an international court process on that question , so I will not comment far on determination question . the Member ask about what we be do , so let I recap again . we have take action in relation to arm , aid and diplomatic pressure on the Israelis , and we will continue to do so . the situation in Gaza be intolerable , and we will continue to take step to try to reduce the suffering . I appreciate the difficult position that the Minister be in . he have speak a number of time in the House about this issue . however , I have significant sympathy for the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) and other who have express frustration . now be the time for action . I appreciate that we as a Government have do a lot and be significantly different from the previous Government , but that be a very , very low bar . it be important that this House have its view express through Ministers . have the Government finally accept the ICJ ' s advisory opinion , which be absolutely crucial to the delivery of a two - state solution and a peace process ? I be always happy to hear the House ' s view on these issue , which I have hear and will continue to hear extensively , and I know the strength of feeling across the House . on the ICJ advisory opinion , we be still consider what be a complex and far - reach judgment with significant horizontal legal implication as well as in relation specifically to the conflict . at the heart of that advisory opinion be a concern about the status of the Occupied Palestinian Territories . I be pleased to confirm that we continue to consider palestinian territory to be occupy , we continue to take a position consistent with international law , and we continue to condemn illegal settlement . that be why we take tangible — not just rhetorical — step against violent and illegal settlement in the west bank . the Minister must be aware that there be hon . member on both side of the House who be equally as frustrated with the form of the previous Administration as they be with this one . he say that he have bring pressure to bear on the israeli authority . when that pressure manifestly fail to deliver , be there a plan ? I pay tribute to the right hon . Gentleman , who be also a Foreign Office Minister . I once host he in Afghanistan , which I be sure he will not remember . [ interruption . ] I be sure that he remember Afghanistan and have vivid memory of Kabul at that time — I mean that he might not remember I . we raise those issue with force . there be consequence for sustained breach of international humanitarian law , but it would be inappropriate for I to comment in too much detail on how we conduct diplomatic relation on those question . I thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question , and I thank my hon . friend for all his hard work in these difficult situation . eight member of the Knesset have pen a letter to the israeli Defence Minister demand that Israel destroy all source of water , food and energy for Palestinians in Gaza . they argue that Israel should do to the rest of Gaza what it have be do to the north . will the Government ban entry of those eight Knesset member , who be openly call for the extermination of Palestinians in Gaza ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and her kind word . the House will be bore of hear I say it , but we do not comment on sanction measure in advance of take they , as do so would reduce their impact , but I welcome the opportunity to make a brief comment on the proceeding of the Knesset . there be much say in other Parliaments with which we do not agree . we be clear that obligation under international humanitarian law , and diplomatic obligation , fall on the israeli Government . we be clear with the israeli Government on their obligation under international humanitarian law , and we be clear about our policy position . I will refrain from provide detailed commentary on the proceeding of another Parliament . it be quite clear that Israel ' s ability to destroy life in Gaza — kill 45 , 000 people — and to destroy medical facility be possible only because of the supply of weapon , principally from the United States . I ask the Minister to be very clear . will Britain continue supply weapon , include part for jet plane , and allow the use of RAF Akrotiri as a route for weapon to go to Israel to be use to destroy life in Gaza ? the right hon . Gentleman ask about fighter jet . in relation to the F - 35 supply chain , where it be not possible to disentangle component that might eventually end up in Israel , we have make a carve - out for the arm suspension . where we have be directly sell fighter jet part to Israel — whether for F - 35s or other fighter jet — those licence have be suspend . we will continue to have the same position on the F - 35 supply chain — we have discuss that at length in this House since it be announce in September — but in relation to other fighter jet we will take step in accordance with wide policy . aid access be non - existent for Palestinians in north Gaza . over the past two month , the UN have make over 160 attempt to reach the civilian in north Gaza , with almost zero access , and we have hear that baby have freeze to death . in October , the Prime Minister say that " the world will not tolerate any more excuse on humanitarian assistance " , so what further action have we take to ensure that the assistance get to the people who need it ? as I have set out this afternoon , we have take further action , include further funding in December for UNRWA . however , to be straightforward with my hon . friend and with the House , the further action we have take have not have the effect we would wish , which be clearly that great aid reach the Palestinians . until we see great aid go into the Gaza strip , we will continue to make those effort , however frustrating it may be . many of my constituent be deeply worried about the intolerable suffering of the people in Gaza , but at this moment they be particularly worried about the ban on UNRWA , which will come into force at the end of the month . the Minister ' s previous answer on UNRWA be simply not good enough . where be the urgency to do something about this , make an assessment of what it mean if no more humanitarian aid be be deliver through UNRWA ? I be sorry that my answer be not to the hon . member ' s taste . to repeat , this Prime Minister be the first Prime Minister ever to meet the commissioner - general of UNRWA , and in December we announce further aid . we have repeatedly be clear with the Israelis , UNRWA and the wide UN system , privately and publicly , about the vital role of UNRWA . we be do everything that could be hope for to try and ensure that aid continue . clearly , there be no alternative to UNRWA at the scale at which it operate — it be not possible to substitute for its function quickly or easily , and indeed , it be mandate by the UN to perform that function . this be not a welcome situation , and if we find ourselves this month in a situation where UNRWA can not function , I will say more to this House at that point . however , I can reassure you , Mr Speaker , and the rest of the House that we be treat this issue with the full seriousness it deserve . the Minister have express his frustration and distress . I think he share the depth of anger that most of we in this House feel . over the Christmas period , while we have be celebrate with our family , we have witness scene of child starve and freeze to death as a result of israeli action . the action that have be take up until now clearly have not have the effect we have want . the only solution we have see in the past be a total isolation of a country , economically and militarily , to prevent it from perform war crime in the way that Israel have . this government could take a leading role in that isolation of Israel to bring it to some form of negotiate settlement , but one thing that grate with I in particular be that we have an israeli ambassador who be an advocate of a great Israel , refuse to recognise the palestinian state and defy all the UN resolution that have be pass about how we can secure peace , and who still remain in this country . why be we not expel the israeli ambassador ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question , and recognise the anguish in his voice about the scene come out of Gaza over the winter period . he be right that I feel that anguish as well — I think this whole House feel it when we see picture of civilian in terrible distress . my right hon . friend ask I about the israeli ambassador . it be tempting to think that , if only we have representative who be more to our taste politically , thing would be easy . there be a clear disagreement between the british and israeli government about the conduct of the war in Gaza and the humanitarian implication that flow from it . we will continue to make that disagreement clear through all channel , both through the israeli ambassador and directly to the israeli Government through the Foreign Minister , the Minister of Strategic Affairs and the deputy Foreign Minister . we will continue to talk to the israeli Government about these issue — indeed , that be the only direct route to secure the change in the situation that we want to see . the UN say that the healthcare system in Gaza be on the brink of collapse , and the International Committee of the Red Cross say that it be be obliterate in besiege northern Gaza . the World Health Organisation say that hospital have become battleground , and we have all see the terrible scene of patient and medic be forcibly remove from Kamal Adwan , the only remain function health facility at that time . what further evidence do the Minister need to conclude that war crime be be commit in Gaza and that a genocide be take place , and how can he continue to justify the export of any arm to Israel , give that it risk make we complicit in the systematic destruction of healthcare in Gaza ? I refer the hon . member to my previous answer on the question of legal determination about genocide . that be a question for international court , and international court be consider it . in relation to arm , I want once again to reassure the House that the measure we have take regard arm licence be far - reach . I have already discuss this afternoon the carve - out for F - 35 part , which will remain the position . as for the remain arm licence , it be important to say that many of they be not in fact for arm , but for dual - use equipment that require license even if it be not for military use . even where they be military component , very few of the remain licence be go to the IDF ; for example , they be for body armour and helmet that non - governmental organisation use when they visit Gaza . we have take far - reach action in relation to the concern we have about the breaching of international humanitarian law in Gaza , and we keep that under regular review . unicef report that at least 17 , 000 child in Gaza be unaccompanied , some so young that they do not even know their name . continual bombardment from israeli force make family reunification impossible . the brutal reality of injured child in Gaza be that thousand of child amputee have be operate on without any pain relief or any chance of recovery , include a 10 - year - old left for four hour with rocket shrapnel in his leg in an overcrowded hospital that be now run out of fuel . will the Minister commit to insist that the israeli Government honour a ceasefire and allow full access to aid and supply ? if not , why be we not consider an arm ban and further sanction to end this violence before there be no more vulnerable people leave to protect ? we be press the israeli Government on a ceasefire , to show the flexibility and take the urgent action require in order to ensure that hostage be release , violence stop and Palestinians can return to some form of dignity and security . my hon . friend raise the vital question of injured child in Gaza . there be not enough medical provision — it be of neither the sophistication nor the scale require to deal with the very many child who have be affect by this war , some of whom I meet in north Sinai . as I say early , those child be the lucky one : they be able to get to what be admittedly an overstretch medical system , but it be a functional one . as we have hear movingly from the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) and from many other colleague this afternoon , that be not the case elsewhere . the Government be keep these issue under review , and when I visit Egypt and north Sinai , I be pleased to announce £ 1 million of UK aid to try to ensure that the egyptian healthcare system can help palestinian child under those circumstance . regrettably , since that period , too few people with medical emergency — both child and adult — have be able to leave Gaza . we continue to raise these issue , and my Department be work on they through the Christmas break . I do not want to talk about specific case ; we have have some success , but limited success , in ensure that child and adult who either require urgent medical assistance or family reunification be able to leave the Gaza strip . I hope to say a little more about that in the come week . last Saturday morning , a constituent come to my surgery to discuss the situation in Gaza . she remind I that she have previously visit my surgery exactly a year ago to discuss the situation . I recognise that the Minister be critical of the previous Administration ; to some extent , that be justify , but the reality be that the situation remain the same . we can all agree that Hamas should release the hostage immediately , but do the Minister agree that the continue bombardment of Gaza by the Israelis be not of itself go to deliver that ? if he agree , have he make that very clear to the Israelis ? I regret that the situation do not remain the same a year on . as we have hear , the situation in Gaza , northern Gaza , Lebanon and the west bank be far , far bad . there have be material change in the occupied Palestinian Territories and the wide region , and with the suffering of the Palestinians , the israeli hostage family and lebanese civilian , there have be considerable far suffering over the course of the past year . it be clear that the only way to get a last , safe , more secure region for Palestinians , Israelis , lebanese , Yemenis and many other be a proper diplomatic solution , with a resolution in the immediate term through a ceasefire and the release of hostage , but also move back towards a two - state solution that provide dignity and sovereignty for the palestinian people . we make that point with force to the Israelis regularly . rise — Order . I will try to get everybody in , but I be aim to finish this urgent question at about 2 o ' clock and a lot of member be on their foot . you would really help each other if you make your question and answer succinct . reportedly , six baby have so far freeze to death in Gaza , largely as a result of a denial of fuel , heating , shelter and medical care . People ' s tent be be flood in the winter rain , disease be spread , aid access be virtually non - existent and there be not one single operational hospital in northern Gaza , with healthcare staff continually be target . what be the UK Government do to ensure that Israel ' s Prime Minister Netanyahu immediately stop such atrocity and allow proper aid access into Gaza , and that we finally get an end to the bloodshed in Palestine ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I have speak a little bit about some of the direct advocacy with the israeli Government conduct by Ministers . that advocacy be also conduct by the special envoy , to whom the shadow Foreign Secretary refer . we be clear at every level of the urgency of the situation in northern Gaza , and we will continue to have it in our mind each and every day until the situation stabilise . it must stabilise both with adequate aid and medical assistance , and with dignity and sovereignty for the Palestinians . the case for further british action to protect Gazan civilian be unanswerable . be the Government ' s moral integrity be damage by their inaction ? perhaps the hon . member could be a bit clear about what further action this Government could be take to try to protect palestinian civilian . we be raise these issue — sanction , arm sale , recognition of a palestinian state — order . you do not get two bite of the cherry . the hon . member mention sanction , and we put in place extensive sanction at the end of last year . I will not comment on further sanction — to do so might undermine their impact — but we keep these issue under close review . I have discuss the recognition of a palestinian state and arm . I recognise the strength of feeling in the House , I recognise how desperately people in this Chamber and across the world want to see an urgent ceasefire in Gaza , and that be the zeal with which the Foreign Office ministerial team approach this . recently , a surgeon break down as he tell the International Development Committee of drone descend after a bomb strike to shoot child , with wound that he believe reflect some form of artificial intelligence . I understand that the Government be say that , since September 2024 , UK - make arm be currently suspend where they may be use against civilian . notwithstanding what exactly that entail — the various detail , caveat and definition — can the Minister confirm and clarify today whether UK - make drone that be export to Israel before September 2024 be be use to shoot civilian , include child , in the manner describe by the surgeon ? I be familiar with the testimony of Professor Nizam Mamode , and I see his video from when he be in Gaza . he be an impressive surgeon and a friend to many in this Chamber , and his testimony be harrowing . on the drone , I want to be clear that the suspension of arm licence would cover exactly that activity . it have be estimate that over 650 attack have be launch on healthcare facility in Gaza and more than 1 , 000 healthcare worker have be kill , injure or detain since October 2023 . I recognise that the Minister have raise his concern with his israeli counterpart , but could he perhaps explain what the consequence will be if the israeli Government fail to listen ? ensure adequate provision of medical assistance be an obligation that fall on the israeli Government . we be clear about the status of these facility under international humanitarian law , and we continue to raise these issue with force . I be sorry that the hon . member for Mid Buckinghamshire ( Greg Smith ) be no long here because he be right that Hamas be terrorist , but we need to be clear in this House that this be not be do in the name of the hostage family . the hostage ' family do not want to see baby freeze to death in Gaza , and they know this will not bring their love one home . the Minister be clear with we early that he have see aid pile up at the border and that Israel control the border . impede access to humanitarian aid be a direct breach of international humanitarian law , so for the avoidance of doubt , be it his testimony that Israel be impede access at the border by the way in which it be control they ? I think he need to be clear on this point , because it do have ramification for we . I know many other in this House have do so as well , but I see the hostage family in December , and my hon . friend be absolutely right . they be desperate for the safe return of their love one , and we hold they in our heart as their agony continue yet far . on aid access , my hon . friend be of course right that these question be relevant to determination of international humanitarian law . when we set out the assessment that underline our action on the arm suspension , we make particular reference to the provision of aid into the occupy territory in Gaza , and I refer she to that statement . we try to provide as much detail in it as possible , and it remain the clear articulation of our view about international humanitarian law and aid provision into Gaza . it be quite clear that the Minister be frustrate , but thought and prayer be just not enough . what be the Minister do to progress the palestinian statehood that Norway , Spain , Ireland and more than 100 other country have all confirm ? the Foreign Secretary confirm it would happen . what be stop that happen now ? I be a Foreign Office Minister and I do not treat in thought and prayer — this House of course feel unite in our anguish about what we be see in Gaza — but what we do in the Foreign Office be seek diplomatically to advance a political solution , with an immediate ceasefire , the release of hostage and , of course , a two - state solution . that two - state solution must include a sovereign , viable palestinian state alongside a safe and secure Israel , and the route to get there will be diplomatic . it be on those question that we base our assessment of when would be the moment to recognise a palestinian state . I recognise that close ally have make different judgment than the UK about when to recognise a palestinian state . this be not just a question of recognition ; it be about a viable state that exist and function next to a safe and secure Israel , and that be the objective of this government . in recent week we have see the distressing footage of israeli hostage Liri Albag , who have be hold captive by Hamas for over 14 month . the hostage family , include Mandy Damari , the mother of british national Emily Damari , be campaign day and night for the icrc and other humanitarian organisation to have access to the remain hostage , but Hamas be refuse . will the Minister condemn Hamas ' s refusal to secure humanitarian access to the remain hostage and set out what step he be take to return those hostage to their family ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and I know how much time he have spend with hostage family over recent month . I do condemn both Hamas ' s refusal to release the hostage , with british national and UK - link person among they , and the lack of access for the icrc and other medical agency . I be consistent on this point : whether it be israeli hostage or Palestinians in israeli detention , the icrc provide vital work and a lifesave function , and access should be provide to it in time of conflict on both side . that be an essential humanitarian step . it have long be a principle of international law , and I be deeply distressed to see that norm be undermine by Hamas and other . the Minister ' s statement about this man - make humanitarian disaster be one of the bleakest I have hear . it be a man - make humanitarian disaster and the Minister be good enough to set that out . in the short term , it be a humanitarian catastrophe . in the medium to long term , a brutalise population make we all less secure and disrespect for international law make we all less secure . the Minister ask what else can be do and talk about disagreement . it be not a disagreement if someone advocate for the breaking of international law . will he look at other measure such as target sanction in order to bring this forward ? when I be first elect , I get in touch with the Government straightaway about a Fire Brigades Union donation , and I get many of the same word then as I do now . it be month on . target sanction , stop arm sale — the Minster want to know what else can be do ; plenty more can be do . the hon . member mention a fire engine that the FBU have generously donate to try to contribute to relief effort in Palestine . that issue have be raise by my own colleague in advance of his do so . I be frustrated that I have not be able to secure that fire engine for use in Gaza , alongside the many other piece of aid and vital equipment that so many in this House know be not go to the palestinian people . I would not want the hon . member to think that I ignore his entreaty in relation to the FBU donation , just as I would not want any Member who have ask I to try and secure aid access into Gaza , and where I have be unable to do so , to think that these issue be not raise regularly . I be a labour politician and be particularly responsive to the request of our trade union partner . I wish that I have be able to secure that fire engine into Palestine , just as I wish I have be able to secure the neonatal support we have discuss , the medical support that have be raise or the many other item of international aid which I have see with my own eye in al - Arish that have not cross through the Rafah crossing or anywhere else into Gaza . these be frustrating issue . I will continue , as will the rest of the ministerial team , to press for more aid to go into Gaza . insufficient aid be go in and we will continue to raise these issue . I want to return to the issue of the recognition of an independent palestinian state . as I understand it , the Government ' s position be that Israel have no veto on the creation of a palestinian state . the Minister just say in response to a previous question that recognition have to come through diplomatic effort . do those diplomatic effort have to involve Israel ? if so , and Israel refuse to co - operate in they , do that not effectively give Israel a veto over the creation of a palestinian state ? we have to be straightforward about the situation in Israel and Palestine at the moment . there be occupy palestinian Territories that have illegal settlement and an IDF presence . to get to a viable two - state solution , we be go to need agreement on both side . the two state would need to live side by side with arrangement in place to ensure that both be safe , secure and sovereign , so I can not see a route to a two - state solution that do not involve serious negotiation with the israeli Government in order to reach a last settlement . that be a statement of the diplomatically essential . that be not to say that the Israelis can veto whether or not the Palestinians be entitle to a state , but it be a fact of reality that both state would need to work side by side to ensure each other ' s safety and security . the Netanyahu regime continue to seek to justify its cold - blooded slaughter of palestinian people behind the dishonest fa ç ade of self - defence . while the Minister assert that the Government be take an even - handed approach in this regard , he will remember that only two month ago the UK military intervene to protect innocent life in Israel by intercept bomb . take on board the passion in the Chamber , the question be about equivalence . what action have the Government take to do the same for palestinian people in Gaza ? the hon . member refer to missile send by the Iranians to strike Israel , and we will act in Israel ' s legitimate self - defence in accordance with international humanitarian law . we do not want to see iranian missile rain down on israeli civilian . the military scenario here be totally different : israeli troop be inside Gaza . this be not a question of missile cross international border , or go overseas . on a number of occasion , there have be risk of direct exchange between Iran and Israel . as many in the House will know , the military question about whether the UK could act to take down missile would be dependent on the circumstance . at the heart of the question the hon . member pose be whether we be even - handed on issue of international humanitarian law , and we be . it be a great regret that our close partner Israel be act in a way that cause we concern about serious risk to international humanitarian law , and we have say so as clearly and explicitly as we can . may I return to the issue of UNRWA ? Philippe Lazzarini , its head , visit Parliament just before Christmas and be very clear about the consequence if its operation be ban . there will be an impact on the provision of school and primary healthcare , as well as on a number of municipal service that it deliver in Gaza . may I urge the Minister to continue to take action on this matter , and to be clear that there will be consequence for the israeli Government if they carry out this ban ? I , too , have meet with commissioner - general Lazzarini and discuss the implication of the Knesset vote . we be clear with the Israelis about the role that UNRWA play , both practically at the volume that it operate and also its role as mandate by the UN , and we will continue to be so . woman who can get access to hospital provision in northern Gaza be undergo c - section without any anaesthetic , and new mother — 180 every day — be struggle to find clean water to provide formula for their new baby or continue to breastfeed , but Israel continue to restrict aid . the United Nations have make three attempt in the last three day to reach Gaza , and have be refuse every time . the Minister have mention political solution but seem to be avoid consequence so I will ask the question again : what consequence can Israel expect from this government if it continue to ignore international law and the urgent requirement to get the care that be need for woman and child in Gaza ? as I say early , the situation for new mother , for expectant mother and , indeed , for the majority of vulnerable Palestinians be appal and need to change urgently . the obligation on the israeli state under international humanitarian law be clear . we raise these point with Israel publicly and privately , and we will continue to do so directly and in multilateral forum until the situation be resolve to the satisfaction of international body . Israel ' s conduct in this war be not just an attack on the people of Palestine ; it be an attack on the international rule - base approach , the international community and the United Nations . although I accept that the Minister be right to say that this Government be do more than their predecessor , can he specify why the UK Government ' s current policy be not to have sanction , even against occupy territory product ? even if that be under review , why be that the Government ' s policy at this moment ? do he agree that it be an attack on all those institution , and not just the people of Palestine ? first , on the question of international law , this Government have be clear that we stand for a rule - base international order . where anyone , whatever our relationship with they , take step that undermine that order , they undermine the safety and security of british national and many other . we be clear , with the Israelis and other , where we be concerned that there be breach of international humanitarian law . I reiterate our position on the status of the Occupied Palestinian Territories , which be consistent with UN Security Council resolution . we have put sanction on those operate in those territory , both where they be conduct illegal settlement and where they be perpetuate horrific violence against Palestinians in the opt . we will continue to keep these measure under review . the Minister say at the outset , " the UK be do all we can to alleviate this suffering " in Gaza . do the Minister really think that ? the Government be not even track british component for F - 35 fighter jet , which be be use in northern Gaza . on F - 35s , where we be in a position to track component directly , we have suspend those arm licence . where our component be part of a global supply chain and where measure to restrict their onward sale would bring down the overall F - 35 function , we have do a carve - out . that carve - out be do clearly on the basis of concern about international peace and security . the F - 35 programme be an important contributor to british national security and the national security of many of our ally . if we be to bring down the F - 35 programme , that would have relevance to ally not just here in Europe , but elsewhere . we have take proportionate measure to ensure that we be clear in our position on international humanitarian law and that we abide by our obligation to international peace and security and our ally . the new year have see an intensification of attack on civilian , include medical staff , in northern Gaza . the UK Government ' s response do not appear to have change . the Minister be frustrate , because he be say the same thing to the same people and get stonewall every time . do we not need to raise our game , and should recognition not be the first step in that ? will he clarify what he say a few moment ago about Israelis not have a veto over whether we recognise Palestine or when we recognise Palestine , which should be now ? in relation to recognition , I be happy to clarify the position . the israeli Government have no veto over whether we recognise a palestinian state , or when we recognise a palestinian state . the point I be make in response to my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) be that talk with Israel about a two - state solution will be a necessary part of a sustainable solution in the region . we therefore need to be clear that it be not possible to reach the outcome we want in the middle east without diplomatic talk , include with the israeli Government . that do not mean they have a veto on british Government decision — it do . perhaps the right hon . Member have a solution for ensure a palestinian state without talk to the israeli Government , but I think he would be outwith the view of most international scholar on that question . I thank the Minister for his patient answer to everyone in the Chamber . do he agree that the only way to preserve peace and stability in north Gaza be to ensure the complete dismantling and destruction of the Hamas terrorist network , which be a threat to israeli and palestinian civilian . the principal way to achieve that be through robust international co - operation and target action . furthermore , what measure will the UK Government put in place to support a sustainable peace framework that prioritise security for Israel while address the urgent humanitarian need of the Gaza civilian population ? Hamas be a terrorist group , and I hope they will have no future role in Gaza or any of the Occupied Palestinian Territories . they be a threat not just to Israel , and they hold british national and UK - link people in horrific condition . we have hear little from they in month and month . we have no access . I know the hon . Member will share the Government ' s outrage about that situation . we be in talk with our counterpart about how we might reach a future Gaza that provide for the safety and security of Israel , but also , vitally , the question of humanitarian access , dignity and sovereignty that have be discuss this afternoon . Israel be ignore international law , ignore the world ' s top court ' s ruling and ignore the United Nations . let we be totally frank : Israel be ignore everything that the Government say . if the Minister be serious about get Israel to stop its genocidal war , the Government must act and that must mean widespread sanction . that mean end all arm export , include the part for the jet bomb Gaza , and it mean sanction on trade with Israel . the Minister say that we be even - handed when it come to international humanitarian law and international law . I ask the Minister a specific question : the Government have impose widespread sanction on Russia for its war crime , so why will they not do the same for Israel ' s war crime ? I will not comment on forthcoming sanction , but I confirm that this Government remain opposed to war crime anywhere that they occur . where we feel in a position to put in sanction to prevent war crime , we will do so . rise — I be aware of the time , and I be aware of the number of member who want to ask a question , so I will run thing slightly long , but I ask Members to keep their question and answer as short as possible . I listen to what the Minister say about the recognition of a viable Palestine , as oppose to the recognition of Palestine . as that could happen in a number of step , will he take the first step in recognise the state of Palestine , before move to a full viable Palestine , as he describe ? any state need to be viable . we would want to create the condition for a sovereign palestinian state that could perform the basic function of a state , so it would need to be viable . as I be sure the House can tell , I be keen to remain focused on the necessary diplomatic step to make that happen . the Minister be a good and knowledgeable man , and his frustration with the process be palpable . for many of we , although we see the step take by the UK Government — which should be acknowledge , as they have be different from those under their predecessor — they have be completely and utterly ineffective . the continue repetition of the call for a review and keep matter under review do not move the dial one jot . Israel be just laugh at the UK . it have no regard for the position here . while we have be home at Christmas celebrate with our child and grandchild , in Gaza child be be burn to death as bomb rain down upon they , building crush their little bone and six baby die of hypothermia . I be afraid that the Government ' s position just do not cut it . I say to my hon . friend with all sincerity that this continue dance around and avoid of clear legal definition of genocide , ethnic cleansing and crime of extermination be just prevarication . we need to make the position clear . more important than anything , what be now require , and what the british people be ask the Government to do , be to visit sanction and consequence on the israeli Government for their flagrant disregard of basic humanitarian law . if we do not , the entire world system will collapse . I know how diligent , attentive and move by these issue my hon . friend have be over a long period . the force of his question be obviously right . we have take far - reach step , yet we be all still see image on our television and hear about they on our radio ; they remain deeply distressing . we will continue to do everything that we can about a situation that be distress for the civilian affect and for the region , and in which there be question about adherence to international humanitarian law . I say to my hon . friend that there be a number of other place in my ministerial portfolio where the situation have also remain stuck for a long time , with terrible consequence for civilian , and they need to continue to have our focus as well . the situation in Palestine be appal , as it have be for a long time in Yemen , Syria and a range of other place . we will continue to make serious effort . that our effort do not secure the progress that we want do not mean that we be not make they . we will remain committed to a more safe , more secure middle east and wide region in which the horrific imagery that he describe be not burnish our mind as it be at the moment . we will continue to act . the fact that , as my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) say , I be answer so many hon . member ' question with similar answer over a course of week and month be of huge frustration to I . I would want to be make more progress on some of these question , whether they be on aid access — [ interruption . ] . the fact that I have not be able to make progress do not mean that the UK Government be not take every action we can to try to bring about the ceasefire that we have be call for since July . the situation in northern Gaza be grave , with no function hospital , medical centre destroy and more than 1 , 000 medical personnel kill , injure or detain . the UK representative to the UN make it clear that that be unacceptable . what step will the Minister take to ensure that Israel abide by its responsibility under international law to protect medical staff and access to healthcare ? I reiterate , to reassure the House about some of the step that we be take , that I have raise with the israeli Government the hospital and the people mention in many of the question this afternoon , and I will continue to do so . only 16 of the region ' s 36 hospital remain partially operational , with a collective capacity of barely 1 , 800 bed to serve a population of million in dire need . Kamal Adwan hospital in northern Gaza should be a crucial lifeline for countless civilian , but the IDF have forcibly evacuate the hospital , detain its medical staff and disrupt its vital service . what consequence on Israel will there be for that action to safeguard those medical institution and ensure the uninterrupted flow of medical aid ? as I have say over the course of the afternoon , we be raise those hospital and the overall question of medical provision with the Israelis , and we will continue to do so . may I put on record my thank to the Minister for the care and concern about the situation that he show member ? yet every time we meet , the situation seem to have become more desperate , even in recent week , with baby freeze , the continued bombing of hospital and real concern about the annexation of Gaza . over Christmas , I meet constituent with friend and family in Gaza . those people be increasingly despondent about whether the killing will ever stop , whether hostage will ever get to see their love one again and whether international law matter at all . with the change in world leadership in the come week , what reassurance can the Minister give the House that the UK will continue to lead the world community for peace , an immediate ceasefire and , most importantly , get aid in where it be need now ? I thank my hon . friend for his commitment to these issue . I confirm that the UK will continue to press with our ally for proper aid access and for an immediate ceasefire , and we will take that position regardless of the view of other . this be an important question for my constituent in Lincoln , for constituent in Peterborough and for constituent of hon . member right across the House . I know the force of feeling from Lincoln and from the whole United Kingdom on these question . they will remain important to the UK , and we will continue to show the leadership that we have seek to since July . I recently meet medic from the Royal Berkshire hospital as well as other constituent from Earley and Woodley who describe the atrocious condition in which their palestinian colleague and relative continue to operate in the medical facility that remain in Gaza . I be thankful that the Minister have raise detain medical professional with the israeli authority , and I thank he for all the work that he have do to ensure that our Government be lead on international humanitarian law . however , as I be sure he have hear from many Labour Members , we would like more action ; we do not think that the current action be enough . I remind he of the comment make by the Prime Minister on look into sanction against Minister Ben - Gvir and Minister Smotrich for their comment support the illegal resettlement of northern Gaza . when may he be able to give we an update on that ? I thank my hon . friend for the question but will not provide a further update on the individual that she raise . as I have say , we try not to trail sanction decision before they be take . I recognise the strength of feeling and reassure she and the whole House that we want to see no far illegal settlement in the occupied Palestinian Territories ; that include both the west bank and , of course , the Gaza strip , north and south . I recognise the work that the Minister be do on this intractable issue and the frustration that we all share at the lack of progress , but the fact remain that not one hospital operate in northern Gaza , healthcare worker have be detain and target , and medical aid be block . so many of my constituent have write to I express their outrage about that . the systematic destruction of a healthcare system be a crime against international humanitarian law . what step can the Government take to try to protect what remain of Gaza ' s healthcare system ? I know the concern that be feel in Edinburgh , as it be elsewhere . we have to be honest about the medical system in Gaza , which be insufficient on almost any of the point raise this afternoon . of course , there be still provision — I think my hon . friend the Member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) mention the indonesian hospital , where we believe patient be shelter in facility that be not properly functional and unable to provide the quality of care that anyone should reasonably expect at a hospital . I fear that , as my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) already know , there be not a sufficient medical system in Gaza to protect , but we will continue to raise these issue and do all that we can to ensure that that situation change rapidly . today we have rightly hear a lot from member in all part of the House about the desperate need to get more aid into Gaza — an issue that many of our constituent be concern about and that the Government be rightly work very hard to address . one of the most disturbing trend in this conflict be the huge number of aid worker who have lose their life — over 300 humanitarian worker to date . as the Minister know , one of the most basic fundamental of international humanitarian law be that aid worker must be protect . in the recess , we see an air strike on Sana ' a airport , when a plane operate by unhas — the UN Humanitarian Air service , which our Government proudly contribute to — be on the runway . the head of the UN World Food Programme be also in the airport at that time . I have travel to that airport as an aid worker , and I take that UN house flight . I can only imagine the impact on aid operation in the region when such incident occur and UN colleague be on the runway . will the Minister join I in reiterate our call as a country that aid worker must never be target ? will he outline what be be do to ensure accountability in instance where aid worker be kill ? what step be the UK be take to ensure the protection of aid worker and humanitarian ? my hon . friend be right to flag the more than 300 aid worker kill since 7 October . we have many former aid worker on the Government Benches ; they perform a vital function for the provision of international humanitarian assistance . british national be among those kill since 7 October . particularly close to my heart be the family of the british aid worker who be part of the World Central Kitchen convoy kill on 1 April . most particularly in relation to the death of british national , but also in relation to all such incident , we continue to press for a proper legal process in Israel to ensure that where aid worker be kill , there be proper investigation and full legal consequence where that be appropriate . I call Dr Scott Arthur — sorry , Brian Leishman . thank you very much for that upgrade , Madam Deputy Speaker . in my opinion , there be no grey area to be have here : to sell arm be to be complicit . how can the Government realistically and honestly say that Britain be do everything it can for a ceasefire and for peace when we continue to sell any arm to Israel ? I have be clear about the position in relation to F - 35s . I have a responsibility , as do the rest of the Government , to try to ensure Britain ' s national security . that include , where we have enter into multi - nation , complex programme such as the F - 35 , not bring those programme down where that would undermine international peace and security . that be our judgment in relation to the F - 35 component , which I have discuss already . on other arm that be not suspend , I think that this House would be much reassure to see the detail of those licence . I be sure that everybody want body armour and helmet on aid worker go into dangerous area . I be sure that everybody would want we to focus on the arm that could be use in breach of international humanitarian law , not other arm . this year have start with a horrific intensification of israeli air strike rain down on civilian and child . Israel have intensify its assault on the already decimate healthcare service in Gaza , to the extent that there be no fully function hospital remain in Gaza . it be a humanitarian crisis , so I be afraid I have to ask the Minister the question that he have be ask repeatedly this afternoon : have we not reach the stage where the UK should immediately end all arm trade and export with Israel ? as I set out in my previous answer , we have seek to focus on those weapon that could be use for a serious breach of international humanitarian law . we have take far - reach action . we have seek to safeguard Britain ' s national security in relation to the F - 35 programme and exclude license that we judge do not contribute to a risk of breach of international humanitarian law . this be far - reach action focus on weapon that could be use in breach . I remain of the view that it be the correct judgment . pro - democracy campaigner : arrest ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the Hong Kong police offer reward for the arrest of pro - democracy campaigner , include british national overseas resident in the United Kingdom . I thank the right hon . Lady for her question on this most important matter . I be glad to reassure she that the Foreign Secretary issue a statement on Christmas eve , immediately follow the Hong Kong police ' s issue of arrest warrant for the six pro - democracy campaigner . as the Foreign Secretary say , those target on Christmas eve be merely exercise their right to freedom of expression . we will not tolerate any attempt by foreign government to coerce , intimidate , harass or harm their critic overseas , especially here in the UK . we call on Beijing to repeal the national security law , include its extraterritorial reach , and on the Hong Kong authority to end their targeting of individual in the UK and elsewhere for seek to exercise their basic right . let I reassure the right hon . member that senior british diplomat immediately go out to reiterate the Foreign Secretary ' s deep concern directly in Hong Kong and Beijing over the Christmas period . official here in London immediately raise concern with the chinese embassy and the Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office here in London . China ' s imposition of the national security law have clearly erode the right and freedom of Hongkongers . I raise these concern with the authority during my visit to Hong Kong , as do the Foreign Secretary during his visit to Beijing . follow the late arrest warrant issue by Hong Kong police , ensure the continued safety of the pro - democracy campaigner remain a top priority for the Government . let I assure hon . member that the UK will always stand up for the people of Hong Kong . the Government be deeply committed to support all member of the Hong Kong community who have relocate to the UK , make such valuable contribution to life here . I thank Mr Speaker for grant this urgent question . this be an incredibly serious matter . as the Minister and the House know , on Christmas eve we see the Hong Kong police once again try to give the national security law extraterritorial reach and threaten people on british soil . we unequivocally reject any attempt to apply the national security law in the UK . in government , the conservative party be consistent and clear that it should be repeal . today , I want to press the Government on how they will respond to this late attempt to clamp down on freedom and dismantle the essence of what make Hong Kong such a special and successful place . will the Minister explain what practical step be be take across the Government to protect those in the UK with bounty place on their head , and assess the security of the Hong Kong community in the UK ? they have come to the UK under the BNO route establish by the last government when I be Home Secretary , to live in the UK free from fear of intimidation . we must have a zero - tolerance approach to such behaviour . have the Foreign Secretary raise this outrageous attempt to suffocate fundamental freedom with his counterpart , Wang Yi ? once again , do this not show that this Government ' s suppose reset with China be just one way ? before meet President Xi , the Prime Minister say that he want a relationship that be consistent , durable and respectful , and state that the pair agree that there would be no more surprise . do the Minister believe that try to arrest bno in the UK be compatible with any of those comment ? do the Hong Kong or chinese authority notify Ministers in advance , or be this a surprise ? will the Minister confirm , with a simple yes or no , whether the Chancellor will raise these bounty at the high level when she jet off to China next week to beg for a quick investment to bail out her fail economic strategy ? she can not ignore human right issue , whether in Hong Kong or Xinjiang , on her visit . will the Government take this incident into account when consider the planning application for the new chinese super - embassy in London ? I thank the right hon . Lady for raise a number of concern . we be as one on the outrageous attempt to reach across the water to try to impose any intimidation on people base here in the UK . she mention other human right concern , such as those in Xinjiang , and say that long - stand policy , such as the national health service not purchase cotton equipment from the Xinjiang region , be the right policy . of course , those policy be bring in follow pressure from member from her own party over previous Parliaments . she be also right to emphasise the importance of the welcome programme for BNO passport holder , which she bring in as Home Secretary , which provide an enormous contrast between a repressive regime and one that welcome people newly arrive in the UK . indeed , it be across our region that the 12 hub , which be create under her leadership of the Home Office , be go from strength to strength . they be give people base in the UK the confidence to raise their voice , become active in their local community , take english class and all the rest . the right hon . Lady mention the Chancellor ' s trip ; I know this would be one of her theme , so I have come prepare . as she be well aware , we be in a position where our economy be quite fragile . while we have clear national security concern — today be a good example of those — we have to balance those concern with be an outwardly facing and globally trading nation , where we need to sometimes be involve with country whose value may not align completely with ours . I make no apology for try to support british business abroad — include in Hong Kong , where british business have say how lovely it be to see mps visit they . I be able not only to be robust in my condemnation of these sort of action , but to support british business , our friend who be base in difficult place and undertake hardship posting , and our diplomatic staff , who live our value day by day to uphold the strong framework of human right abroad . I will use this opportunity to ask the Minister whether she and the Chancellor on next week ' s visit will raise the case of my Unite colleague Carol Ng , who become the general secretary of the Hong Kong Confederation of Trade Unions , and who become involved in the democracy movement and have be imprison for four year now . during the last statement , I appeal to ensure she have family access . could her case be raise again , both to secure her release and to at least secure she the opportunity of meet her family ? I will , of course . would my right hon . friend write to I with the exact detail and his most recent update ? I have have the privilege of meeting trade union colleague from Hong Kong , Taiwan and a number of other area that be very exposed to the People ' s Republic of China and some of the tactic we have see there . I have be pleased that there have be great collaboration across not only the trade union movement here in the UK , but defender of human right — be they environmental , relate to freedom of religion or belief or across the great range of freedom that we enjoy here , and which we want other country to share , too . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . the extraterritorial arrest warrant issue against Hong Kong pro - democracy activist be disgraceful . we must be clear : Hong Kong democracy campaigner such as Carmen Lau , a former district councillor in Hong Kong , be welcome and free to express their view here in the UK . this attempt by Beijing to interfere in our democracy be unacceptable . the previous Government do not do enough to counter this interference , and we urge this government to go far than word with action . will the Minister meet I , my hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mr Reynolds ) and his constituent Carmen Lau to assure she of the Government ' s support ? will the Government clarify that it be illegal to bounty hunt in the UK , and that anyone who do so can expect to be prosecute ? will she use our Magnitsky sanction regime against those in Hong Kong and Beijing responsible for the unacceptable targeting of Hong Kong pro - democracy activist ? finally , in the light of the continue detention of Jimmy Lai and these warrant , will the Government reconsider the Chancellor ' s plan trip to Beijing ? I would be delighted to meet Ms Lau again ; I believe I meet she at an event with Dame Helena Kennedy in the previous Parliament , but it would be lovely to refresh that acquaintance and to hear from she follow the traumatic experience she have have . I would be very happy to provide an update in writing , but I will also provide one here — as much as you will let I get away with , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have personally promise Mr Lai ' s son , Sebastien , that whenever I have the opportunity , I will raise the case of his father , who remain on trial ; in fact , the trial be due to restart on 6 January . I have as many briefing as possible from the consul general to Hong Kong and his team , who be very conscientious and diligent in attend all the trial they can get ticket for and who give I regular update . I have promise the Lai family that I will continue to do that ; I believe I have a meeting with they in the diary in the come week . on the Chancellor ' s visit , I refer the hon . gentleman to my early answer about balance . unfortunately , because of our rather expose position post Brexit , our economy have to be outward look . if we want our constituent to get away from food bank , we need to have more import - export and to be pragmatic on the matter of have an economic relationship with our fourth big trading partner . it be hard to tell the House that , because I want to just talk about the other element of the relationship . however , when I go to my constituency , and people tell I how hard their life be and how , over the past 14 year , our economy have go into decline , I know I have to stand up for our economic relationship as well . I associate myself with the Minister ' s comment about the contribution that hongkonger have make to the UK , which be particularly true in East Renfrewshire . the Hongkongers in my constituency will welcome the strong comment from the Minister and the Foreign Secretary . however , we have hear those comment many time from the Front Bench , and the response from Beijing have be to imprison dozen more people , put more bounty on the head of british people , escalate transnational repression and keep people like Jimmy Lai in prison . at what point do the consequence come for these action ? as other member have ask , I ask not just when our senior Ministers will stop go there , but when we will stop welcome Hong Kong official here . I also ask whether the Government can and will meet the british national who have have bounty put on their head , and whether they be be give specific security advice . perhaps I could encourage my hon . friend to join the all - party parliamentary group on Hong Kong , which I know be very active in the House — I be a member before I become a Minister . it provide really regular update , as do the Hong Kong committee on human right , which write a regular email newsletter to update we on the situation of the like of Ms Lau , who be mention early in this debate , as well as what be happen across the globe , in the US , Canada , Australia and other place . my hon . Friend ask how we can manage this most difficult of relationship , and I say that the opportunity we have with an exchange do not in any way take away from our position — in fact , I think it strengthen my arm . if I be in Hong Kong , I can eyeball the Beijing representative and tell he exactly what my view be , with the support of the consul general , who be an excellent representative of the UK , reinforce that regularly . that be the element of engagement that we have , which we be look through the audit to increase in order to give we the opportunity to lay our concern at the door of those with whom we seek to have a dialogue . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) on secure this urgent question . the Minister should not take what I be about to say personally : no matter who be in government , I have be in opposition on this issue , and I continue to be so . I remind she that these seven pro - democracy campaigner , who now have a bounty on their head , be just the late act of a chinese Communist party that do not care what country like the UK say . let we run through the example : the freezing of all pension saving of those in the UK who flee Hong Kong , which be , outrageously , do by HSBC ; Confucius Institutes continue to spy on chinese student in university ; illegal chinese police station ; the bullying back in China of family of those who have flee for human right reason ; and the brutal assault in Manchester by the consul general himself and other . I say to the hon . Lady who speak for the Government that I be at odd with the Foreign Secretary in the previous Government when he say he would do exactly what she say she will do : engage with the Chinese . it be after that that they continue the case against Jimmy Lai . America have sanction a large number of chinese official at the high level in Hong Kong . no british Government have so far sanction a single person for any of the abuse that have take place . will she now say to the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister that we must sanction people for what they do to abuse british citizen and those we welcome here ? until we do that , we will not be take seriously . I fully accept that , as a sanctioned MP , the right hon . Gentleman be very concerned . I respect and admire his doggedness in raise these issue in the House . I hope he will reply to my invitation , from I and the Foreign Secretary , to visit I in the Foreign Office to discuss his ongoing concern , include those he have raise today . specifically on the Mandatory Provident Fund , this be an ongoing dialogue . both my predecessor , the former Member for Berwick - upon - Tweed , and I raise the documentary requirement for withdraw fund early . basically , the Hong Kong authority have a particular approach , but we be quite right to keep campaign on that . why should BNO passport holder not receive the fund to which they be entitle ? he mention HSBC . we will continue with any financial institution that be not be fair to its own investor . we will continue , with his support , to campaign for that . on sanction , he be well aware that there be many sanction against chinese entity . I will write to he with the detail of where we be at with sanction , but he be also aware of the Government ' s long - stand position on sanction , which be that we do not talk about they in the House because that could take away from their efficacy in future . what representation have be make to the chinese Communist party ' s ambassador here in London on the consequence of a third round of bounty target democracy activist , include british national and bno , here on british shore ? my hon . friend be quite right to raise that issue . he will be aware , from the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , that it be be take extremely seriously . we have raise through official — this happen only on Christmas eve — the concern example of transnational repression . that be an ongoing discussion . we have a high - profile visit next week . our official be in regular contact with chinese official who have their embassy here in the UK . in Hong Kong , our excellent consul general meet regularly not just with Hong Kong Ministers but with the Beijing official office in Hong Kong , to put on the record our concern , anger and ongoing human right concern wherever they may come from . no one should be surprised , as I have say before , when a communist totalitarian state behave like a communist totalitarian state . do the Minister agree that there be a little pattern emerge here ? every time a senior british politician — be it the Prime Minister or the Chancellor — be go on a visit to the Chinese , something particularly egregious be do . that suggest to I that they be try to rub our nose in it , and that they be not interested or concerned about anything we say on human right abuse . the right hon . Gentleman can obviously read his coffee cup granule or tea leave well than I can . I do not know , but I be concern about the increase regularity of these sort of issue . I share his view that we need to understand more . we need to be as robust as possible with representative here in London and through our excellent diplomatic representation abroad , and join together with the like - minded — an area he have work on through Congress and other member . in the case of the US , which be always very robust in its response , I note that its export - import trade flow have increase rather than decrease . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and her robust word , and her outstanding disagreement when it come to China ' s approach to protect UK people on our soil , in particular those with a bounty on their head or those subject to China ' s national security law . I also welcome her word on HSBC ' s disgraceful behaviour in withholding pension from people who have work and save all their life . what can we do to protect people here on UK soil far ? what discussion have she have with her Home Office counterpart to ensure that UK police force fully understand the seriousness of the threat to Hongkongers ' safety on UK soil ? how can we be assure that UK police force be be adequately train to understand the pressure from China ? I thank my hon . friend for her thoughtful comment and her support for the cross - party campaign for financial freedom for BNO passport holder here in the UK . if I may , I will pick up on her point about training . on transnational repression , whether from the People ' s Republic of China , Iran or other country with whom we have such a significant disparity in value , it be very important that we continue to deepen our understanding of , and improve our training on , how cyber - crime work and the influence of social medium . I be sure she agree that another area be our learn institute , include university , where student report feeling of be watch and be under surveillance . we be wise to all those thing . my hon . friend the Minister for Security and I be work together closely on the challenge of transnational repression . it be much more difficult in this day of social medium , but we will redouble our effort to train law enforcement officer , local government and teacher , so that we can pick up on any fear that victim of transnational repression might be experience . I agree with the Minister that the UK - China relationship be necessary , but she will know that it be complicated and often conflict . Russia have attack political dissident and refugee in this country , even to the point of murder . Iran be seek to track down political dissident in this country . now the chinese state — let we be honest about it — be make direct threat against people live in this country who have seek political asylum . I have two simple question for the Minister . first , be the security service resource enough to counter the increase threat ? secondly , be hongkonger political dissident safe on the street of Britain ? the right hon . Member ask two excellent question . the first concern training and capability , which feature in our audit of Government Departments and the extent of their preparedness for these increasingly different challenge and threat — they be part of what we be look at . in response to the second question , I can tell the right hon . member that BNO passport holder be safe because we keep they safe , and we ensure that there be adequate training and up - to - date knowledge on an ongoing basis . I think that we have the good intelligence service go , particularly when it come to question of this sort , but we can never be complacent . instance such as those raise by the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and other give we an opportunity to underline from Parliament the important and cross - party nature of crack down on transnational repression . Chloe Cheung , a resident of Leeds , have be subject to a £ 100 , 000 bounty simply for tell the truth about Jimmy Lai . at 19 year old , she be the young person to be subject to Hong Kong ' s national security law . what reassurance can the Minister give Chloe and other Hongkongers that they will be protect from transnational repression while they reside within our border ? I thank my hon . friend for his excellent constituency work , and for know his constituent so well such a short time after be elect . I can reassure he that if he feel that the advice that his constituent have be give be in any way lack , he can write to I so that I can secure a specially design package of safety for that vulnerable 19 - year - old . how far be the Government prepare to go before the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland decide to push back in relation to this issue ? I have hear many report , in my constituency and across Northern Ireland , of the targeting of family and friend of mine by chinese authority . they feel vulnerable in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , all of which be now on the frontline . the Government must step up and protect our citizen . I thank the hon . member for relentlessly raise in the House the issue of human right and the concern of his constituent . may I refer they to the excellent welcome programme , which be run through local authority ? it be introduce by the last government and be be continue by this Government . its purpose be to provide a warm welcome and help people with employability and some of the soft skill — english language course , for instance — but it have a hard edge to it as well : it be link with community policing , so that we can be absolutely sure that no one here in the UK be afraid for their safety owe to intimidation from a government many mile away . I thank the Minister for come here to give reassurance . many thousand of people from Hong Kong have decide to settle in Milton Keynes , and we be very pleased that they be add to our wonderful diversity . some of those who contact I over Christmas be quite concerned , and not just for themselves but for their family who remain in Hong Kong and be fervent believer in democracy and in their nation of Hong Kong , and who want to ensure that that be protect through their ability to campaign for it . the rise of transnational aggression continue . also over Christmas , one of my constituent , Hazar Denli , who be a whistleblower , be issue with an arrest warrant from Vietnam . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can deal with something that be happen increasingly across the world ? I thank my hon . friend for be such an involved constituency Member and for be so responsive over the Christmas period . a number of every active mp be sit behind I . let I make a more serious point . these be the sort of constituency concern that we want to jump to immediately . in the first place , could my hon . friend approach her constituent and check that he have the require safety package and that the police in that wonderful city of Milton Keynes be aware of the case ? could she also send I some detail about the other case that she mention , which I be happy to look at , so that I can write back to she with an informed answer ? I be fortunate enough to have a large community of Hongkongers in my constituency , who be extremely welcome , but they often speak to I about the limitation impose on they by the condition of the BNO visa under which they have arrive in this country . they can not gain full access to healthcare , education or employment opportunity . do the Minister agree that address some of the concern feel by Hongkongers in Britain will send the Chinese Government a strong message about how much we value our Hong Kong citizen , and how hard this Government work to support their freedom and their right to live in this country ? I have the pleasure of walk in Richmond Park , which be a lovely thing to do , and I thank the hon . member for her concern for her constituent . the scheme be design by the last Government . there be now 293 , 000 BNO passport holder in the UK , and on the whole I think it be a success story , give the 12 hub , the welcome programme , the english course and so on , but there be always improvement to be make . perhaps the hon . Member would direct her question to my colleague in the Home Office in the first instance , but also copy I in . I be keen to know how we can be even more welcoming , so that we can provide the contrast of a society that value difference and value newcomer and what they bring , but that also make everyone feel safe . the British Hong Kong community , include those who have make their home in my constituency , will welcome the Minister ' s robust answer today . will she confirm that Beijing ' s action against bno will be scrutinise as part of the Government ' s China audit ? yes , of course , but it be a fairly broad audit , so if there be anything specific that my hon . friend would like our official to look at , will he send I just a couple of paragraph so that I can wind that into our response ? we want an up - to - date audit and we be hope to publish it in the come month , so perhaps he could do that soonish . we want to be robust on human right and security , and we be concerned about cyber - security and other aspect of the transnational repression that appear to be grow , but this also have an edge to it , in that we be look at our own national interest and at where we be expose economically . this be a difficult thing that we have to do in foreign policy : to look to our own interest , as well as defend our broad human value and human right . the Minister be right to point out that Brexit have make we more vulnerable . I wonder whether the UK be fit for the increase challenge to democracy , be they from the Russian Federation , Iran or China ; the Intelligence and Security Committee highlight that some year ago . I also note that a foreign oligarch call for the unelected Head of State to get rid of the democratically elect Government , use his own social medium channel . on a serious note , will minister introduce update measure show how they see themselves defend democracy in the UK , include the right of those who be already here , while also protect we all from outside interference ? I will not be tempt down the particular track that the hon . Member have invite I to go down , involve oligarch and so forth , but what I will say be that we live in a very uncertain time . there be a sense of " safety first " in foreign policy : we would like to close everything down and just operate within the UK , but that option be not available to we . what we therefore seek to do be bring ourselves into line with other interlocutor . Janet Yellen , a very robust interlocutor , have visit Beijing a number of time . the Australians , the Singaporeans and a number of other do not have to leave their value at the door if they want to have a discussion about a particular economic opportunity , or if they be worried about something ; they say what they want to say in an engagement . I can promise the hon . member that there will be no return to the golden era and a pint with Xi Jinping , but there will be a heighten awareness of our national security , and human right will be paramount . the chinese Government respect one thing : strength . so long as they continue to perceive that we be cringe , they will treat we with the contempt they believe we deserve , so how many Hong Kong official have we sanction ? as the right hon . Gentleman be well aware , the Hong Kong Economic and Trade Office be still function here in the UK . we be keep a close watch on the situation , and we keep all these thing under review . my visit to Hong Kong in November be instructive , and I can assure he that nobody be cringe when I meet the representative from Beijing . if you think this Minister cringe , then you don ' t know she . if human right be paramount , why should we allow our trade balance to determine how we respond to abuse of human right ? the hon . Member ask a very important question . there be a three - legged approach in good foreign policy , with national security first , human right as our duty , and an eye to our economy , because I do not think any of we want the continuation of a situation where our economy be at the bottom of the league table , which be how it feel now . the malign extraterritorial reach of the chinese Communist party be be play out in very human term , and I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) on bring an example of that to the Floor of the House today . why , then , be this Government potentially facilitate that reach by hand over the Chagos island ? this urgent question be about Hong Kong , but I think it be very important that when international court make decision — be that on the United Nations convention on the law of the sea , or other international court judgment — we comply with they . do the Minister agree that the national security law for Hong Kong be in direct conflict with article 23 of the Basic Law for Hong Kong and a clear breach of the sino - british joint declaration ? we have be relentless in push back on the erosion of freedom in Hong Kong . when meet civil society organisation in Hong Kong in November , I reassure people there of the value of this House . for those of we who be found member of Hong Kong Watch , when the Prime Minister of the time be have a pint with Xi Jinping , we will never turn away from underline the importance of those fundamental right and what hongkonger enjoy in the past . it be terribly sad to see the erosion of those right , but we can not just give up and walk away . we have to have a dialogue , we have to keep point out our point of view , and we have to keep push back . hongkonger resident I represent in Sutton and Cheam be regularly in touch with I to outline their fear and uncertainty , live under the threat of the transnational repression operate by China . the news that China be now issue arrest warrant and bounty for the identification of pro - democracy campaigner in the UK be another step in that fear and repression . they often wonder , will they be next ? may I ask the Minister again to make it clear to China that these bounty be illegal and that any individual who engage in the practice will be prosecute ? more broadly , will she start to stand up to China and its unacceptable persecution of british resident by apply Magnitsky sanction to the Hong Kong official responsible ? we will always maintain our flexibility on Magnitsky sanction ; that be the benefit of they , post Brexit , as we have our own sanction programme now . the hon . member will be aware of the important work we be do to sanction certain chinese company that be facilitate Russia in the ukrainian conflict . we will continue to look at what we can do within that regime , to ensure that we use any tool we have to strengthen international process and procedure and to stand up again and again for what be right in the international arena of human right . what oversight be there by the Foreign Office of our devolved institution ' connection with China ? I ask because Simon Cheng , a pro - democracy Hong Kong activist who be in exile because he be torture in China , have properly criticise the fact that when the First Ministers of Northern Ireland recently have contact with chinese authority , they refuse to publish a record of those meeting . what oversight be there to ensure that we be present a united front across the United Kingdom to China ? I do not think the hon . and learn Member intend a pun with " united front " . take his point very seriously , I think we could be do more , and if he could write to I with the example he mention — the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) have also mention a particular incident to I in Edinburgh that I be unaware of — I would like that , so that I can challenge our official to come up with a more robust , join - up approach . as he be aware , follow the general election in July , the Prime Minister set out first to Edinburgh , then to Cardiff and then to Belfast to emphasise the importance of the devolve region to a holistic way of look at governance . this be a really good example of where we could be do more . I have listen carefully to the Minister ' s answer on the Chancellor ' s visit to Beijing , and I believe she have say that concern will be raise . concern have be raise time and again , and it have get we nowhere , so be it not time to draw a line in the sand ? be it not the minimum we could do to raise our voice a little more loudly , demonstrate our anger a little more publicly and cancel the Chancellor ' s visit to Beijing ? the hon . member be quite right to say that it have be raise , not least by the Prime Minister when he meet Xi Jinping ; he be on film raise the Jimmy Lai case , which be in the court right now . that be the nature of a dialogue — to raise it — but we will be robust in the way that we raise those case , and we will continue to make a point . there will not be cancel of trip , on the basis that there have to be an element of outward focus by the UK , particularly give the economic legacy and the position we find ourselves in . I will pass on the hon . member ' s concern , and I will certainly listen to any further suggestion he have , but I believe that engagement be necessary . Harrogate and Knaresborough be bless to have a small but thriving group of Hongkongers who have make it their home and open up a number of local business , add to the fabric of our town . my worry be that , with the late arrest warrant and transnational repression , hongkonger will not want to be visible in public , play that part in our community . what tangible step will this Government take to get the message down to people on the ground that this be not something we will stand for and that we will stand by and support they ? I thank the hon . member for his question and , with his permission , I will take it away to see which hub he be close to . twelve hub be set up specifically for the welcome programme for BNO passport holder , so keen be we in 2021 to extend the hand of friendship to those who be so cruelly treat in Hong Kong and continue to be . I will write back to he ; if he could email I with any specific constituency issue , it would mean a more informed reply . domestic Abuse ( Safe Leave ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision for an entitlement to pay safe leave for victim of domestic abuse ; and for connected purpose . domestic abuse be a national emergency . all member of this House will have be contact by woman and man in their constituency who have suffer from domestic abuse at some point in their life . accord to SafeLives , approximately 2 . 1 million people in the UK have experience some form of domestic abuse . sadly , the majority be woman , and I will refer today to the Government ' s mission to tackle violence against woman and girl . but we should not forget that 750 , 000 of those survivor be man , and Office for National Statistics datum show that one in seven man have experience domestic abuse . although those figure may shock some member of this House , they do not paint a full picture of the emergency that we be in . one in four woman have experience domestic abuse . at least one woman be kill by a current or former partner every week in this country . each year , more than 75 , 000 people be at high or imminent risk of be murder or seriously injure as a result of domestic abuse . some 1 . 5 million domestic abuse - relate incident be record by police in England and Wales in the year end March 2023 , and nearly 250 people be arrest in Gloucester alone this December for domestic abuse - relate offence . behind all the statistic , however , be a human being — a person in our society , our community and city like mine who have face unimaginable pain and suffering . domestic abuse be not just about physical violence . it be also about psychological manipulation , economic control , coercion and the isolation of victim from their friend , family and support network . it affect people of all age , background and walk of life . it take a profound toll on a survivor ' s physical and mental health . the trauma of abuse linger and leave long - last scar on victim that can take year , if not decade , to heal . the impact of domestic abuse have be bring home to I , as a new MP , by the constituent who have attend my surgery across the city and share their personal story . they include survivor and victim who have have to flee across the country , only to be follow by their abuser , individual who have be prevent from have friend or even get a job for more than a decade , and constituent who have be force to pay their abuser ' s rent long after they leave the relationship . of course , we in Gloucester all remember the horrific murder of Hollie Gazzard , which I raise at Prime Minister ' s question just before Christmas . in 2014 , Hollie be murder at work by her boyfriend after month of obsessive behaviour , jealousy and harassment . tackle domestic abuse matter to I , and it matter to my city . I have already hold a roundtable with local charity and organisation , include the Hollie Gazzard Trust , FearFree and the Gloucestershire Domestic Abuse Support Service , and put forward this Bill would not have be possible without the tireless campaigning and research of national organisation such as woman ' s aid , SafeLives and Rights of Women . I be pleased that this Government be already get on with the job of support victim and survivor of domestic abuse as part of their unprecedented mission to halve violence against woman and girl . we have already introduce domestic abuse specialist in 999 control room up and down the country and roll out domestic abuse protection order , which enable victim to be protect from all form of domestic abuse , include non - physical abuse and controlling or coercive behaviour . however , I genuinely believe that this Bill could play an important part in that mission , and change the life of victim and survivor across the country . why this Bill ? well , perhaps one of the most challenging aspect of leave an abusive relationship be the financial reality . survivor often find themselves trap in cycle of abuse , because they simply can not afford to leave . figure from Women ' s aid ' s recent report , " the Price of Safety " , suggest that it could cost a survivor almost £ 50 , 000 to leave an abuser , base on the direct cost of flee and rebuild a new life . despite the financial burden , take time off work be an unavoidable necessity for many victim — whether it be for medical treatment , find a new place to live , attend court hearing , seek legal advice or take their child to safety . the demand on a survivor ' s time be overwhelming , and many be force to take holiday to give evidence against their abuser in court . many take time off sick , only to fall foul of their employer for have too much sickness absence . some take the impossible decision that they simply can not afford to leave , so they remain in unsafe situation , continue the cycle of violence . two week ' pay safe leave would give victim and survivor the time they need to seek help , to find the resource they need to escape their abuser , and to start the long process of healing . let I be clear : victim of abuse should never have to choose between their safety or their wage . survivor should not have to take annual leave to attend court in order to see their abuser prosecute . woman flee an abusive husband should not have to call in sick and face the sack for get their child to safety . victim should not fear repercussion at work just for seek help . the last Conservative Government undertake a review of domestic abuse leave and conclude that it would be too difficult to implement . I do not accept that . what I do accept be that there will be complexity in ensure that an entitlement to pay leave work as intend , that it support survivor and victim of domestic abuse , and that it provide a framework by which survivor and victim can feel confident in have confidential conversation at work about what they be go through at home , free from fear of repercussion or a detrimental impact on their career . unlike the conservative party , however , I do not believe that something should be stick in a drawer and forget about just because it be difficult . that be why I propose that the Bill require the Secretary of State to come back with regulation to implement safe leave . such a process would allow the Government to consult victim and survivor , charity such as woman ' s aid , Refuge and SafeLives , business and employer , and trade union in order to tackle the difficult issue head - on and deliver for victim and survivor . some may argue that provide pay leave for domestic abuse victim will put a burden on employer . although such leave would be pay for by business , that argument miss the big picture . domestic abuse already cost business and the economy . a 2019 study by KPMG show that business in the UK lose £ 316 million a year as a result of work - relate absence due to domestic abuse . woman ' s aid and ResPublica have calculate that domestic abuse cost our society £ 78 billion in 2022 alone . the reality be that employer who already voluntarily offer supportive work environment , include domestic abuse leave , tend to foster loyalty , improve employee retention and create safe , happy and healthy workplace . it be no long enough to say that domestic abuse be a personal issue ; it be an issue that should concern every workplace , every employer , and every member of this House . we do not have to look far for example of how safe leave can be introduce in this country . in fact , part of the United Kingdom have already begin the process of introduce safe leave . the Northern Ireland Assembly have pass the Domestic Abuse ( Safe Leave ) Act ( Northern Ireland ) 2022 , and be currently consult on proposal . resident in the Republic of Ireland , New Zealand , Australia , Canada and the Philippines all have the right to time off work because of the domestic abuse they have suffer . as this government be take a global lead on tackle violence against woman and girl , I truly believe that my proposal would be a fantastic part of that agenda . today , I hope to start a conversation in workplace up and down the country so that employer ask themselves a very simple question : " if one of my employee be suffer from domestic abuse , would they come to we for help ? " if the answer be no , surely more need to be do . safe leave would save life . safe leave would start conversation in workplace in my city of Gloucester that will help survivor and victim of domestic abuse get to safety , get the support they need and get back on their foot . Imagine live in a society in which victim and survivor of domestic abuse feel safe and empower to seek support at work . imagine if , have flee your home , get your child to safety and then take legal action against your abuser , you do not have to worry about your job . you could take the time to attend court , get medical help and see your solicitor , safe in the knowledge that you have a protect and pay right to time off . that be the kind of society that I want to live in . in closing , I ask the House to consider the many victim and survivor who be suffer in silence today ; I ask Members to think about the child and family whose life have be tear apart by violence ; and I ask all of we to think about what we as member of this House can do to ensure that these survivor be not abandon or leave behind . introduce two week of pay leave for victim of domestic abuse be a step towards a more just , compassionate and equal society . it be a commitment that we will stand by survivor , support they and never stop fight until violence against woman and girl be a thing of the past . question put and agree to . order , that Alex McIntyre , Jess Asato , Emily Darlington , Catherine Fookes , Dr Allison Gardner , Tom Hayes , Uma Kumaran , Alice Macdonald , Ben Maguire , Anneliese Midgley , Katrina Murray and Mrs Sarah Russell present the Bill . Alex McIntyre accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 20 June 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 157 ) . Crown Estate Bill [ Lords ] second reading I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . may I commend my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Alex McIntyre ) on his move ten - minute rule Bill , which he just present ? the purpose of the Crown Estate Bill be to bring legislation govern the Crown Estate into the 21st century . the Crown Estate be a commercial business , independent from government , that operate for profit and compete in the marketplace for investment , yet it be restrict in its ability to do so by legislation that have not be amend since 1961 . with less ability to compete and to invest , it be less able to deliver return for the public purse than it might otherwise be able to do . exist limitation on the Crown Estate ' s power have mean it have have to generate capital for investment by sell its asset , which be neither desirable nor sustainable . under current legislation , the Crown Estate be constrain in its ability to support sustainable project and to preserve our heritage for generation to come . these be the reason why the Bill be necessary and why the Crown Estate have ask successive government for reform . the Bill have be expand and improve during its passage in the other place , with requirement relate to sustainable development , GB Energy and the composition of the board . fundamentally , the change that the Bill propose will give the Crown Estate new freedom , include the power to borrow as their competitor can , enable they to adopt a sustainable and competitive business model . the Bill have two key objective . first , it broaden the scope of activity that the Crown Estate can invest in , in order to support the delivery of its core purpose across net zero , nature recovery , economic growth and generate return to the public purse . in its current form , it be predominantly a property estate and be significantly limited in its investment option . the Bill would provide it with the ability to invest more widely in new growth opportunity — for example , invest in the further mapping of our seabed . this will enable it to undertake significant de - risk activity , such as pre - consent survey and support grid connection , thus increase the frequency of lease for offshore wind and support the clean energy transition . I hope the Minister will not hear much disagreement about the point he be make so eloquently . however , may I query why these provision and power , which he believe be relevant for the Crown Estate in England and Wales , be not also be provide to the Crown Estate in Scotland ? as the right hon . Gentleman know , Crown Estate Scotland be a separate organisation to the Crown Estate that be the subject of the Bill . of course , we continue to have conversation and we will be pleased to talk to he and other about that issue for the future . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress . the second objective of the Bill be to enable the Crown Estate to invest in capital - intensive project more effectively . it do so by empower the Crown Estate to reduce the size of the cash reserve it need to hold , thereby expand its ability to use its land and property asset far more efficiently . let we be clear that this be a huge departure for the Crown Estate . the Bill basically allow it to go to the City and to raise capital base on its asset , most of which , as the Minister highlight , be property . as he know , the sponsor Government Department for the Crown Estate be the Treasury , but investment go up and down . what if those investment go down ? who will be the guarantor for those liability ? will it be the taxpayer or the Crown Estate ? I will come to a number of those point later in my speech . if I have not answer the right hon . Gentleman ' s point as I get towards the end , I will take another intervention from he . as a result of the change in the Bill , the Crown Estate will be able to accelerate investment in redevelop and decarbonise its Regent Street and historic London portfolio , as well as invest in project to support science and innovation . the Bill will unlock potential investment of up to £ 1 . 5 billion in the science , technology and innovation economy over the next 15 year , build on the Crown Estate ' s recent investment in the city of Oxford . to reduce the size of its cash holding and engage in more capital - intensive activity in the long term , the Crown Estate need the ability to borrow , as its competitor currently can . such borrowing will be from the Government or from other source , but only with Treasury consent . borrow from the Government will be at commercial rate , mean the interest the Crown Estate pay , fund from its own income , will outweigh the Government ' s cost of borrow the money they loan to the Crown Estate . this will enable the Crown Estate to build on its long track record of deliver significant revenue to the public purse year after year — it have deliver over £ 4 billion in the last decade . be there not a potential conflict of interest ? the Minister mention GB Energy , a new national organisation introduce by Labour Government policy . because of the Crown Estate ' s partnership with the Treasury , the Government be encourage the Crown Estate to invest in GB Energy , but what if people out there do not like that policy ? what if GB Energy be a failure ? it be there not a clear potential conflict of interest between the Crown Estate and the incumbent government ? the right hon . Gentleman be do a brilliant job of anticipate section in my speech . once again , I will point at he when I come to the relevant section ; in fact , it be the next section , so he be in luck . there will be a memorandum of understanding in place between the Treasury and the Crown Estate that will govern how the borrowing power will be exercise . above all , the Crown Estate will be borrow for investment , maximise the profit return to the public purse . any such borrowing will require Treasury consent and will be within our fiscal rule . give that the new power will enable the Crown Estate to first draw on its cash holding , it be not envisage that these borrow power will be use until the end of the decade . as with any public sector borrowing , the Treasury will ensure that this be consistent with " manage Public Money " principle to ensure value for money for the taxpayer . the fiscal impact of any Crown Estate borrowing will be fully consider , start with this year ' s spending review , to ensure it be consistent with our fiscal rule . the Bill contain a set of necessary reform , ensure that the two key objective can be meet and that the Crown Estate can continue to operate effectively , both now and in the year ahead . it be compose of five key element . first , it widen investment power by remove exist restriction on invest in the current Crown Estate Act 1961 , and clarify the Crown Estate ' s ability to invest in complementary activity , such as research , digital technology and energy supply chain . secondly , it grant the Crown Estate the power to borrow with Treasury consent . as well as generate return for the public purse , the new ability to borrow will free it up to make well use of its exist asset , leverage these to give it more room to invest . thirdly , the Bill make amendment relate to the governance of the Crown Estate to provide legislative simplification and to bring it in line with good practice for modern corporate governance . by expand the number of commissioner , the board will be able to well reflect the grow breadth of the Crown Estate business and ensure a great range of expertise and diversity at board level . the Bill also require the appointment of commissioner to advise on Wales , England and Northern Ireland , which will ensure that the board continue to act in the good interest of the area in which it operate . fourthly , the Bill require the commissioner to keep under review the impact of their activity on the achievement of sustainable development goal in the UK . it be important that progress towards national goal on the environment and climate , as well as wide consideration on society and the economy , continue to be at the core of the Crown Estate ' s strategy . fifthly , the Bill require the annual report to include a section on the activity of the commissioner under their recently announce partnership with Great British Energy . that will ensure that detail of the partnership and the benefit it create be publicly available , clear to all and subject to debate in this House when those report be publish . I understand that the Minister be propose that , in relation to the seabed , the Crown Estate will be a licensing authority for renewable energy project and will now be able to invest in they too . the commissioner have a primary duty to maximise the return to the Crown Estate of any activity they undertake . to comply with the law , will the Crown Estate be compel to side with renewable energy development at the expense of the fishing industry if , for example , there be a conflict between the siting of an offshore wind farm and the use of that sea by the fishing industry , and be that fair ? that be a great question . I have no idea , so I will commit to write to the right hon . gentleman with an answer , if he will forgive I for not know . will the Minister give way ? only if it be a question to which I know the answer . I might be able to help a little with the question ask by the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) . the Crown Estate have engage in support the evidence and change programme that have bring the fishing industry and the renewable sector around the table to enable early planning to prevent some of the conflict we have see . my speech will highlight some good example of where those plan and the evidence and change programme have start to be implement . the industry be work together , hand in hand , to prevent the kind of conflict about which the right hon . Gentleman be rightly concerned . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her help , which I hope give the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) some reassurance , as it sound eminently sensible . clause 3 cover this : " the Commissioners must keep under review the impact of their activity on the achievement of sustainable development in the United Kingdom . " this have be write into the Bill . I be continually grateful for the team effort , and I be grateful to my hon . friend for have pay such close attention to the Bill . I be aware of the duty to keep this under review , but that will surely be overridden , because the primary duty remain to maximise the return for the Crown Estate . I be quite happy for the Crown Estate to be both a licensor and an investor , although there be something of a conflict of interest , but surely there need to be more concern about the Bill ' s impact on other seagoe industry . in a way , I fear that the Minister ' s response to my initial question suggest this have not be give sufficient attention thus far . the right hon . Gentleman should not take my not know the answer as mean that other people be not pay sufficient attention to the issue . he have ask a very technical question , and I commit to make sure an answer be make available to he and the House before the Bill go to Committee . the Bill currently place an obligation on the commissioner in relation to salmon farming , due to an amendment make in the other place . the Government do not believe this obligation would be effective or , indeed , appropriate , give that it relate to a devolved policy area . we therefore intend to seek to remove this measure in Committee . the Bill have seven clause . clause 1 insert two new measure into the Crown Estate Act 1961 to clarify and broaden the commissioner ’ power . it also remove section 3 ( 4 ) of the 1961 Act , thereby remove limitation on the commissioner ' investment power . the two new measure grant a power to borrow , subject to Treasury consent , and clarify that the commissioner have the power to do that which be connect , conducive or incidental to meet their general function , include enhance and maintain the Crown Estate and the return obtain from it . this allow the Crown Estate to borrow from the National Loans Fund , the Treasury or otherwise , subject to Treasury consent , and authorise the Treasury to provide financial assistance to the commissioner or to provide loan from the National Loans Fund . clause 2 make two amendment to modernise the Crown Estate ' s governance , by increase the maximum number of board member from eight to 12 and remove the requirement for the salary and expense of its commissioner to be pay out of vote fund . clause 3 require the commissioner to keep under review the impact of their activity on the achievement of sustainable development in the United Kingdom . clause 4 require the commissioner ' annual report to include a specific report relate to the Crown Estate ' s partnership with Great British Energy . clause 5 require the commissioner to make assessment relate to salmon farm on Crown Estate land , and to refuse or revoke a licence for a salmon farm if the assessment determine that it may cause , or be cause , environmental damage , or if it raise significant animal welfare concern . the Minister have mention GB Energy and the desire to get on with allow the Crown Estate in England and Wales to borrow . he will not have forget that GB Energy be likely to be locate in my Aberdeen South constituency , and many of its project to drive the net zero agenda across the UK will come to fruition in Scotland . will he provide a little clarity on why he believe these power should apply to the Crown Estate in England and Wales , yet his Government be not legislate for the power to be provide to Crown Estate Scotland ? I be at a loss to understand the reasoning . the right hon . Gentleman will know that the ambition for GB Energy be broad than those relate to the provision of this Bill . on the connection between the Crown Estate and GB Energy in relation to this Bill , it be merely about the partnership that have already be announce to facilitate the investment opportunity that be available in relation to England , Wales , and Northern Ireland . I refer the right hon . gentleman to my previous answer on Crown Estate Scotland . we have talk a little about Scotland and Wales , but do the Minister believe this Bill will stimulate great economic growth in other area and region of the country ? the south - west peninsula have a huge amount of wind energy potential , for example , so have he assess what sort of investment opportunity might come from this Bill ? I thank my hon . friend for his excellent question . he will know from the work of ministerial colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero that the enormous potential for offshore wind in the Celtic sea and off the south - west coast be currently largely untapped . a lot of the work that need to be do to make those seabed available , and to bring the interconnection onshore and on to the grid to make it viable for private sector investment , require quite a lot of up - front work . the Bill will enable the Crown Estate , work in partnership with GB Energy , to identify opportunity to invest in thing like supply chain and in preparation and planning for the seabed work , and to identify the cost profile that might relate to the project that be be develop . that will facilitate the deal that we wish to make with private sector supplier to unlock those opportunity . we see this as an important enable mechanism to take advantage of the opportunity we have in the south - west and other part of the country . clause 6 require the appointment of separate commissioner with responsibility for give advice about England , Wales and Northern Ireland , note , as I have on a number of occasion , that Crown Estate Scotland be a separate entity . it also grant Welsh Ministers and the Executive Office in Northern Ireland the right to be consult on each of the appointment relate to those part of the UK . clause 7 set out procedural matter relate to the Bill ' s extent and commencement . the Bill give the Crown Estate the flexibility it need to meet its core duty of enhance and maintain the value of the estate and the return obtain from it . the Bill broaden the scope of the activity in which the Crown Estate can engage , enable it to far invest in the energy transition , and it empower the Crown Estate to invest in capital - intensive project more effectively . critically , these measure will unlock more long - term investment , increase the Crown Estate ' s contribution to create high - quality job and drive growth across the United Kingdom . this Bill deliver a targeted and measure enhancement to the Crown Estate ' s power and governance , modernise it for the 21st century , and I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Minister . the work on reform the Crown Estate be develop by the previous Government . I be pleased to be debate the Bill today , and I thank my noble friend for the scrutiny they have already provide . we support the objective to increase the Crown Estate ' s ability to compete and invest , so that it maintain and enhance the value of the estate and the income derive from it . asset manage by the Crown Estate be not the property of the Government , nor be they part of the sovereign ' s private estate . since George III , the asset have be hold in right of the Crown , which encompass the interest of the sovereign and the Government . that be why appropriate scrutiny of the Crown Estate and its £ 15 . 5 billion in total asset be important . it have a rural portfolio of 185 , 000 acre , manage roughly 7 , 400 mile of coastline , have one of the large property portfolio in the west end and return all its profit to the Treasury . last year , there be a record profit of £ 1 . 1 billion , up more than £ 600 million largely due to fee from round 4 , and it have generate £ 4 . 1 billion for the nation ' s finance over the past decade . there be , however , the potential to do more . in the business case prepare under the last government , the Crown Estate estimate that change in the Bill would enable it to generate £ 100 million a year in additional revenue by 2030 . it be right , therefore , that we help to modernise the Crown Estate as it aim to create last prosperity for the nation . although we support the Bill ' s aim , further scrutiny be obviously need in some area , include a limit on the level of borrowing , governance , the relationship with great British Energy and safeguard in relation to the disposal of asset . I will come to each in turn . as we have hear , the kernel of the Bill be clause 1 , which confer on the Crown Estate a broad power to borrow , subject to Treasury consent . while I note the need for Treasury approval , a lack of parliamentary oversight on borrowing level be a concern . when push by Baroness Vere of Norbiton and other noble Lords , the Government state that a limit on borrowing " be well place outside of legislation " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 5 November 2024 ; Vol . 840 , c . 1400 . ] and instead should be place in the memorandum of understanding between the Crown Estate and the Treasury . the MOU set out that the Crown Estate can borrow up to 25 % of the worth of its total asset , but an MOU be easily alter . public borrowing level should be transparent . if Parliament be be ask to remove restriction on borrowing , why should there not be a cap in legislation with the ability to swiftly amend it through a statutory instrument , if necessary , to protect against unconstrained borrowing and the concern that my right hon . friend the Member for the Wrekin raise ? I agree with my hon . friend that the Crown Estate and Treasury ' s framework agreement be ineffective , or that at least it could have be strengthen . the memorandum of understanding be in a similar vein . I therefore support he . will he comment on this ? I have concern about the Bill . I agree with the general principle but there be potential fiscal and reputational hazard ahead for the Crown — not just the Crown Estate — if some of the investment go south . also , at the moment there be a link between the Crown Estate and the sovereign grant . I think it be around 12 % , as not all the income to the sovereign grant be derive from the Crown Estate . however , if the investment be to go wrong , who would be liable ? if we have a weak MOU with no statutory oversight , it be more likely to go wrong . my right hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the potential risk . there be no one - way bet in life , and there be no guarantee that the Crown Estate will successfully invest in project that go well . I will come on to the point about the energy side of thing later in my speech . it be perfectly reasonable , as we propose in the other place , to have that 25 % cap in legislation , which could be amend . I be sure we will consider the issue far in Committee . the Bill alter the governance of the Crown Estate and provide for the number of commissioner to be increase to 12 . give the extension of the power and the decrease in parliamentary oversight , pre - appointment scrutiny be of great importance . again , I thank Baroness Vere for seek and secure assurance from the Government that the chairman of the Crown Estate commissioner could be add to the Cabinet Office pre - appointment scrutiny list . just before Christmas , Ric Lewis be announce as the preferred candidate for the role and I be pleased that the appointment will now be consider by the Treasury Committee . will the Minister confirm in his wind - up speech whether other commissioner will be subject to any pre - appointment scrutiny ? turn to salary , which I do not believe the Chief Secretary refer to , under clause 2 , Parliament will no long be responsible for approve they through the estimate . instead , they will be pay out of the income of the Crown Estate . currently , the framework document set out that remuneration of the chief executive should be in line with or below that of an appropriate benchmark group approve by the Treasury and that a clear majority of the chief executive ' s total reward should be conditional upon performance . we support rewarding success , but with the loss of parliamentary oversight , will the Minister confirm whether any change be propose to the remuneration framework and , specifically , for the chief executive ? will he undertake to report to the House on any such change in future ? turn to great British Energy , on the day the Bill be introduce , the Government announce a partnership between the Crown Estate and GB Energy , which they claim will " unleash billion of investment in clean power . " indeed , the press release go on to say it " will lead to up to 20 - 30gw of new offshore wind development reach seabed lease stage by 2030 " . however , there be a lack of transparency over how the partnership will work , the difference it will make , and its impact on the Estate ' s primary duty . give the suppose significance , I would have expect to have see a partnership agreement by now , as without one , we do not know what have be agree . will the Minister confirm if there be a partnership agreement yet ? will he commit to publish it before the Committee stage ? have the Crown Estate agree to invest a certain amount with GB Energy ? what process be there to ensure the Crown Estate continue to deliver on its duty to maintain and enhance the value of the estate ? how will the Crown Estate decide between project GB Energy back and other project that may have a high rate of return ? the GB Energy found statement add to the confusion , add that the Crown Estate " will establish a new division ' great british Energy : the Crown Estate ' . " that raise several question . will new staff be require , or will it simply be a restructuring of the exist group ? the statement also say it will sit " under both Great British Energy and the Crown Estate , with strategy and investment agree by Great British Energy . " will decision be make jointly on investment , or will the Crown Estate retain its independence ? give the Government vote down our amendment to the great british Energy Bill to introduce more accountability , it simply fuel some suspicion that the partnership have be create for political rather than economic reason . the reporting requirement that be secure and add to the Bill in clause 4 , which the Chief Secretary refer to , will at least help to bring some transparency to this , but there be a need for a lot more . under the previous Government , the UK become the first to more than halve emission while grow the economy and become a leader in offshore wind . however , we must acknowledge that renewable be not cheap in all scenario . there be clearly a risk that the Government will push up the cost of wind by rush ahead to meet their political target and increase price for consumer as a result . that be a far cry from the £ 300 cut in energy bill that Labour promise during the general election . as we scrutinise the Bill , Parliament have an important role to play to ensure the Government do not seek to use the Crown Estate to try and deliver the Energy Secretary ' s damage policy and undermine return to the taxpayer . as I set out early , the Crown Estate own some vital asset , so it be surprising that there be so few safeguard to prevent commissioner from sell off such important asset . in the business case for the change , the Crown Estate be plan £ 1 . 4 billion of disposal to fund investment , represent nearly 10 % of its portfolio . when I ask Crown Estate representative what that cover , they say they be unable to disclose plan for disposal because it be commercially sensitive information . again , that raise concern about transparency . in response to question in the other place , the Government say they be work with legal expert " to establish the extent to which the Crown Estate can currently sell the seabed " for example . on Report , Lord Livermore confirm that if the Government establish that " further legislation be require to restrict the ability of the Crown Estate to sell the seabed , " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 5 November 2024 ; Vol . 840 , c . 1412 . ] they would bring forward an amendment . I would be grateful if , in his wind up , the Minister could update the House on the process of those discussion and the need for such an amendment . the disposal of asset should be properly scrutinise . the Government reject attempt in the other place to bring more scrutiny here and say that a statutory limit on disposal would undermine the flexibility of the Crown Estate to operate commercially . give that the asset be hold for the benefit of the nation , we should ensure some form of transparency if they be to be dispose of , whether that be report to Parliament , or seek HMT approval for disposal of specific asset , or those over a set value . finally , let I turn to salmon . clause 5 would require the commissioner to assess the environmental impact and animal welfare standard on salmon farm on the Crown Estate . if a salmon farm be cause damage or animal welfare issue , its licence would have to be refuse . I commend my noble Friend Lord Forsyth of Drumlean for his tireless work on this matter and for highlight that salmon farming can cause detrimental impact in the event of escape in term of disease , breeding and other issue . give that wild Atlantic salmon be now on the international union for conservation of nature ' s red list , these be perfectly reasonable obligation which he say might influence how the Crown Estate of Scotland be to operate . the amendment be sponsor by Lord Forsyth , but also by Green and Labour party member , so it be disappointing to hear the Chief Secretary to the Treasury talk about reverse that measure , and we look forward to that debate in the Committee stage . Salmon farming be enormously important in my community and in many other community around the highland and island . those community will not be affect by this apparently , although we might hear conformation on that at a later stage , but be it the hon . Gentleman ' s position that this be the only way of regulate salmon farmer ? be he not aware that there be a massive amount of regulation affect salmon farming already ? do he really think that the Crown Estate commissioner be the people to be do this job ? like I , the right hon . Gentleman will have read the Hansard report of the debate in the other place where this issue be cover at some great length , so I defer to the point make by Lord Forsyth there . regulation be obviously in place , but this addition would simply raise awareness of the issue in the Bill . the Government say that they support the objective of the amendment when it be discuss in the other House , but do not think it be necessary . they do not think that it would do any damage , so I suggest that it remain part of the Bill . to conclude , the Crown Estate Bill will help deliver the modernisation that be need , but the purpose must be support the estate ' s duty to maintain and enhance its value for maximised return to taxpayer , rather than become an extension of GB Energy ' s cheque book . we will be pursue the concern that I have raise about check on borrowing governance , the relationship with GB Energy and the safeguard in response to the disposal of asset to ensure that that remain the case . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to speak in today ' s debate . I wish to speak in favour of the Bill and to make a few brief point , both general one about wide policy and some in relation to my constituency . I wish to cover the issue of the Crown Estate in central London . I shall then move on to the estate ' s property around the coastline , and , finally , I shall come on to some of what I hope will be significant wide benefit of the just transition to a green economy . first , on modernise building in central London , it be often forget that our build environment be one of the poor in term of energy efficiency across the developed world , include in Europe , and that we do need significant investment . we can obviously see that in the building in which we work . many building in central London date from victorian and edwardian time , or the 1960 , when building standard be much low than they be now . indeed , there be enormous potential precisely because those building standard be low — I be talk about issue such as solid wall , cavity wall that be not insulate , and exist single glazing or poor quality old double glazing that could be replace with new material . that show very precisely the potential benefit in carry out this work . it be important to remember , however , that this be in the nature of a one - off capital investment in the short term , which will lead to enormous benefit in the medium to long term . therefore , this type of measure , which be outline so ably by my hon . friend on the Front Bench , be exactly what be need by many large landowner to allow they to have access to the capital that they need to carry out work that will improve build efficiency and therefore lead to energy saving . I welcome that , and it be important to remember the context of the build environment in London and across the country . secondly , let I move to the issue of the coastline . it be worth note that the UK be a leader in offshore wind . we need to recognise the benefit of the past few year , particularly the move to the majority of british energy be generate by low carbon source , particularly offshore wind . however , there be a need for a new , significant additional step up , which require the mapping of new area of seabed , new interconnector , and new grid connectivity at the coast , because the whole of the grid at the moment be design around a post - war model of large , coal - fire generation inland , so there be significant need for further investment in coastal location . as my hon . friend the Member for Exeter ( Steve Race ) mention early , some of that be not particularly well map , and part of the work that we be see allow today be the ability of the Crown Estates to map much of its property on the coast or on the seabed more accurately , therefore allow investment as well as support and regulate investment as well . I ask the Chief Secretary whether he could outline further detail of aspect of that , in particular the scope for the Bill to allow for and support more investment in interconnector to other neighbouring country , as well as more grid connectivity at the coast itself , which can be a bottleneck for renewable energy come onshore . thirdly , I would like to discuss some of the wide benefit of the Bill and ask some further question . one of the big challenge with the move towards renewable energy be delay in grid connectivity . I have see that in my own area when I visit a large solar farm next to the M4 motorway , just outside read in the seat occupy by my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) . the connection of this large solar array to the grid be delay by a year because of a lack of capacity among energy company and wide infrastructure challenge . I hope the Chief Secretary can provide some further detail on how the Bill will allow further acceleration of grid connectivity . I also hope it will add to the wide green energy economy and that the benefit accrue from it could be feel by some small onshore scheme . I certainly ask the Chief Secretary if he could investigate the possibility for it support some small scheme . for example , in my area there be an innovative scheme to put a low - head hydro generation scheme on the Thames at Caversham . that generate power for several hundred home . however , there be significant challenge in instal the scheme . again , grid connectivity , access to capital and other practical issue delay the project . up and down the Thames , and other major river , there be many example of site that could be use for this straightforward , rapidly deployable form of renewable energy . I would appreciate the Minister write to I if he be unable to comment directly today . on a related matter , I hope that the Bill will in some way support the wide roll - out of solar on roof and potentially on canopy over car park . both have enormous potential as deployable form of solar that would have a limited impact on land use , and they may have real benefit through the ease with which they can be access . I look forward to get further detail on those point . I warmly welcome the Bill and thank the Chief Secretary for his word . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I begin by extend my gratitude to all those who have work tirelessly in the Lords on the Bill over the past seven month . I note in particular the way in which full transparency be offer and deliver by Lord Livermore , the Financial Secretary to the Treasury , in response to request for clarification and evidence . I hope that we can replicate such co - operation as the Bill pass through this House . the objective of the Bill be to broaden the investment and borrowing power of the Crown Estate and to strengthen its corporate governance , in order to help accelerate , among other thing , the delivery of new renewable energy , particularly offshore wind . we be generally supportive of the Bill and would welcome further scrutiny on issue such as the cap on borrowing ; accountability in the relationship with great British Energy ; manage the conflict between compete interest and value of our seabed and coastline , as mention by my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) ; community benefit ; devolution in Wales ; and our climate and nature duty . I will proceed to elucidate those issue . in the UK , we be off track in meet our climate target , follow previous year when the Conservatives have dither and row back on pledge . we need to increase investment in renewable energy in order to strengthen our energy security and to help family keep warm and lower their energy bill , particularly during this cost of living crisis . as a result of Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , family and business have be leave expose to skyrocket bill . for far too long we have be reliant on autocrat such as Putin to meet our energy need . the Crown Estate oversee 200 , 000 acre of land , 12 , 000 km of coastline and a seabed area large than the combine land mass of England , Wales and Northern Ireland . as the owner and steward of the seabed , the Crown Estate lease plot to offshore wind developer and other infrastructure project , play a fundamental role in the sustainable development of this national asset and in the potential for secure our world - lead position on float offshore wind development . for many year , however , the Crown Estate have be constrain in its ability to borrow through the Treasury , force it — as we understand it — to resort to sell off asset in order to fund its investment for the future . the change propose in the Bill , in partnership with Great British Energy , hold the potential to unlock investment in vital infrastructure across supply chain , port and green energy sector , and to accelerate progress by unblock the huge delay in the delivery of new green energy , which be desperately need follow the slow progress make under the previous Government . it be reassuring to hear that during the Bill ' s passage through the Lords , assurance be give that there would be a borrowing cap of 20 % of the loan - to - value ratio . we look forward to see that reflect in the update framework agreement as we go into Committee . on the day the Bill be introduce to the House of Lords , the Government announce the Crown Estate ' s partnership with Great British Energy to bring forward new offshore wind development . despite the significance of that relationship between the two , the original Bill do not provide clarification on or accountability in how it would work . clause 4 , which be introduce by my Liberal Democrat colleague , ensure important transparency through annual report on activity within that relationship . however , we also share Energy UK ' s concern about how that relationship will work , particularly in relation to other private sector investment . we support its call for annual schedule for offshore wind lease that identify location and target capacity . such a road map would help developer and supplier to plan investment , include necessary port upgrade , and would align with the offshore wind industrial growth plan . do my hon . friend agree that this legislation should have set out a framework for devolve the Crown Estate in Wales , as be the case in Scotland ? indeed , I read the report of the debate in the Lords , and there be a passionate request for the Crown Estate in Wales to be devolve to the Welsh Administration and for the benefit to be feel by Welsh community . we look forward to discuss that in Committee . another crucial area that have be mention be the mapping of the seabed around our coastline . the Crown Estate have already begin that work with award - win geospatial technique . that key contribution to spatial planning for our coastal and marine area need to balance economic development with environmental responsibility . for year , the liberal Democrats have call for comprehensive land and sea use framework . although the Government have commit to a land use framework , we remain far behind on marine spatial planning . we have hear today , in response to the concern of my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland , about the conflict of interest in the Crown Estate lead on determine priority in our coastal and marine area . it be on that point that we seek assurance . statutory body such as the Maritime Management Organisation be responsible for prioritise and manage compete interest and value between user of our coastline , include in fishing , as have be mention , and in tourism , amenity use and shipping . all those thing need to be manage , and that can be do through marine spatial management . we caution against the Crown Estate become the leader by default because it be the owner and steward of the seabed and have the capacity for mapping . we know that it be undertake liaison work with fishery , and that be good , but the MMO be the statutory body for manage those compete interest , and we seek assurance that that will be clarify in Committee . raise the issue of devolution to Wales bring I to the key point of community benefit . we need to know how community will benefit from the investment in infrastructure and renewable project facilitate by this Bill . local community must not feel that this energy transformation be be do to they , but that it be empower they to participate and benefit from it . while the new borrowing power will enable investment in offshore wind , they will also facilitate property development across the 185 , 000 acre of the Crown Estate , so the Bill must do more to ensure that those development do not ride roughshod over community concern regard planning , infrastructure and environmental standard , both on land and at sea . People must have a say in the decision that affect they and , where infrastructure be concern , they should also receive the benefit where appropriate . I be really pleased to see the inclusion of amendment 10 , champion by Baroness Hayman . that amendment require the commissioner to " review the impact of their activity " on sustainable development . as Liberal Democrats , we have long call for climate and nature duty to be a requirement of all public body . as Baroness Hayman wisely say , " what matter be the endgame and the result … what matter be the impact we have and how much we have shift the dial in term of what the Crown Estate achieve in support of the Government ' s climate and nature objective . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 5 November 2024 ; Vol . 840 , c . 1425 . ] during the debate in the Lords , an undertaking be give that the framework agreement would be update to include a definition of the meaning of sustainable development as regard the Crown Estate , with explicit reference to part 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 — the target for 2050 — as well as section 56 of that Act , and to section 1 to 3 of the Environment Act 2021 regard nature recovery . I look forward to see an update version of the framework agreement to reassure we that this definition of sustainable development have be include . this Bill present a trident of opportunity . it can enhance energy security , reduce household bill and bring we close to achieve our net zero target , but we can not afford to lose sight of the need for financial accountability , the duty to protect nature , the need to devolve to Wales , and the need to ensure that all community be include in the crucial journey to net zero . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this debate . the Crown Estate sit as one of the more peculiar feature of our society — King George III ' s surrender to Parliament in 1760 have now morph into a corporate body that submit 88 % of its profit to the Treasury , with 12 % remain with his Majesty . it do not stop there : up to £ 60 billion of borrowing power will be grant by this legislation . give that Great British Energy ' s investment stand at £ 8 billion , that demonstrate the scale of this organisation , as well as its power , reach and influence . the key question be whether it serve the people of this great country or whether , like any other commercial outfit , it be seek to feather its own nest in the name of corporate greed . in our United Kingdom , one of our big and most powerful natural resource be wind . to cut bill , deliver energy security and achieve net zero , we have to become to wind what Saudi Arabia be to crude oil . off the coast of my wonderful , coastal , diverse and rural constituency of Pembrokeshire , we have an abundance of wind , but thankfully not much hot air . however , 12 mile offshore — where that glorious wind blow with such regularity , majesty and force that it would make Aeolus proud — the seabed be own by none other than the Crown Estate . in the past few year , creativity in international industrial policy have move on , leave the UK in danger of trail behind . the United States and the European Union be actively incentivise investment in domestic supply chain , justify by their need for national energy security and urgent acceleration to net zero . to keep pace internationally , we must grasp the nettle and do it fast . the Crown Estate must utilise its own financial resource to make enable investment that crowd in private investment into UK supply chain , such as port and other coastal facility for float wind . over the last year I have be do everything I can to engage constructively with the Crown Estate , but , unfortunately , I have yet to secure any assurance that it will utilise its financial resource for the benefit of our energy security , our job of the future and our acceleration to net zero . we can not sit by and let the conflict between raise national income via annual option fee and incentivise early investment to develop regional supply chain ruin the chance of bring child out of poverty and give young people in area such as mine back home in Pembrokeshire good , secure , long - term and well - pay job . the Bill should give full rein to the Crown Estate to explore all such option to maximise domestic supply chain , particularly for float offshore wind . the population of south Wales and the south - west will never forgive we if we do not seize this once - in - a - lifetime opportunity to redevelop their regional economy . the Crown Estate have an absolutely pivotal role to play here , and one that speak to all the King have do across much of his career to address climate change and align business interest with the rejuvenation of economically deprive region . yes , the Crown Estate have set out its strategy in respect of integration , port , and apprenticeship and skill , but this have to be optimal vis - à - vis the clean energy strategy and the focus of this new Labour Government . when carry out its leasing round , it should set out the option consider , with an assessment of and the reason for the rejection of recent international precedent . these include , but be not limit to , the ScotWind lease auction of 25 GW of mixed fix and float offshore wind , which include commitment to project expenditure in Scotland via supply chain development statement , and do so without trigger a legal challenge by the European Union ; and the US Bureau of Ocean Energy Management lease auction for offshore wind , which include a 20 % bid credit for investment in domestic US supply chain — for example , the recent lease sale auction for offshore wind in California . there should also be consideration of non - price factor in lease auction , especially weighting allocate to the sustainability of supply chain , which would give a lifeline to community in Port Talbot , and the resilience of supply chain , also know as energy security , which be likely to favour geographical port - to - offshore project site such as my own in Milford Haven in Pembrokeshire . there have be example of and precedent for this , as in the recent EU Net - Zero Industry Act . we need this Bill to equip the Crown Estate with power to introduce non - price factor more directly into the seabed right auction process — for example , by offer a fee discount , as be do in the United States , for supply chain investment that reduce the risk of offshore wind project be delay due to international supply bottleneck , which in turn would accelerate our progress to a net zero power sector and protect UK energy security . finally , geographical ringfencing be a critical element in ensure that we as a Government tackle regional inequality head - on and with real urgency . we must end the historical injustice of the politic of extraction , where the resource of a community such as mine be use to build ever more lavish building while young child struggle to get three square meal a day . this Bill can make a real difference . I urge the Minister to be bold and ambitious , and I assure he of my full support as he do just that . the Crown Estate own 65 % of Wales ' s foreshore and riverbed , and more than 50 , 000 acre of land . recent rise demand for renewable energy project have result in the value of the land sky - rocket . in 2007 , the asset value of the Crown Estate in Wales be £ 21 . 1 million , and in 2023 this reach £ 853 million . correspondingly , profit generate from these asset have also increase . net revenue profit across the Crown Estate rise from £ 345 million in 2020 to £ 1 . 1 billion in 2024 . profit generate from Wales ' s natural resource be , however , not retain for the Welsh public purse ; instead they leave Wales and be send to the Treasury and the sovereign grant . in contrast , in Scotland the Crown Estate be devolve and profit from scottish natural resource be transfer to the Scottish Government . in 2024 the sum be estimate to be a record £ 108 . 3 million . how can the Government justify Welsh profit be send to the Treasury and the monarch when in Scotland they be hold back and put back into the scottish purse ? the situation be bad than that , with Welsh council have to pay lease fee simply to use the land which be own by the Crown Estate . in 2023 the sum be nearly £ 300 , 000 . with huge pressure on council budget , how can that be justify ? in the age of coal , Wales see a huge extraction of wealth from our community . in 2025 , Wales be now experience a similar process of extraction of our green wealth . the reality be that Plaid Cymru Members be divide on this issue and be confuse as well . their colleague in the other place support provision in this Bill to create a new commissioner with special responsibility for Wales , yet now the hon . Member be say only devolution will do . why do she think Plaid Cymru colleague in the other place be wrong ? I will come on to answer that question and perhaps show a pragmatic way of work forward . as I say , in 2025 Wales be now experience a similar process of extraction of our green wealth and we can not let this happen . as in Scotland , it be for the people of Wales to have control and derive the benefit from all profit generate from our own resource . however , the Bill make no mention of devolve the Crown Estate to Wales despite the fact that the new investment and borrowing power under the Bill may allow the Crown Estate to generate £ 100 million more a year in profit for the Treasury . none of this will be retain by the Welsh Government . in the other place , Lord Hain ' s amendment , support by Plaid Cymru , have ensure that there will be Welsh representation on the Crown Estate board . while we welcome that as a step forward it still do not address the fact that membership of the Crown Estate board be largely outside of democratic control as it be the monarch who appoint the commissioner who make investment and borrowing decision , not Parliament or the Senedd . devolve the Crown Estate would needlessly jeopardise the role it be play now to deliver good clean energy and job , which be need across Wales , include in the hon . member ' s constituency , which neighbour mine . these job be much need across north Wales , as she well know . the hon . member be a great champion for her constituency , but do she really want a delay in deliver the job in clean energy project that be need so much across Wales ? I will come on to that , too , because as an energy champion for my constituent for many year I be fully aware that we do not want any delay but there be a way of work that through slowly while also benefit from Scotland ' s experience . Plaid Cymru have be lead the call for devolution of the Crown Estate for many year , and in July 2023 the Senedd pass a Plaid Cymru motion call for the devolution of the management of the Crown Estate to the Welsh Government . only through the devolution of the Crown Estate can the people of Wales have democratic control over their natural resource . Plaid Cymru will be bring forward an amendment to devolve the Crown Estate to Wales . although we will be look to engage constructively with the Government , include on how to support the Welsh Government , the Crown Estate and energy developer to prepare for devolution , they can not simply ignore the direction of travel . there be an overwhelming consensus in Wales for devolution . it be support by the Welsh Labour Government and the independent commission on the constitutional future of Wales as well as 58 % of the people of Wales . it be time for the Government to listen and devolve the Crown Estate to Wales . I represent Truro and Falmouth , which have huge potential to benefit from float offshore wind . with Falmouth dock and our position in the Celtic sea , if the build - out of the sea be do quickly and well , our young people could benefit from good , well - pay job in a strong local supply chain , but intervention will be need to get to that place . no project in the Celtic sea have be successful in lease round or contract for difference , except for one test and demo model that be struggle to build viably due to price change . it can not just be leave to the market to build local supply chain . that will not occur without intervention and investment in our port , business and further education . I welcome the Bill . the change to the power of the Crown Estate will enable it , in partnership with GB Energy , to invest in port such as Falmouth , the mapping of the seabed to front - load the leasing round , research and development and local supply chain . when Falmouth marine school , in my constituency , be struggle to get funding for a level 2 course on float offshore wind engineering for local 14 to 16 - year - old , the Crown Estate step in with one year ' s funding to allow it to go ahead on a pilot scale . with the Bill ' s change , more such positive intervention could be make . with power to borrow from the Treasury national loan fund and invest come great responsibility . the framework for this borrowing be to be draw up at a later date , but the Crown Estate be classify as a public corporation with a portfolio of nearly £ 16 billion , so it be important that it be hold accountable and scrutinise in the normal way . I welcome the governance change to the number of commissioner and the fact that they will now be pay out of Crown Estate proceed , rather than from Parliament , but the fact remain that if they be to be give more power and control and be to enter into partnership with GB Energy , their aim and objective need to strongly align with the growth agenda , the industrial strategy and our environmental target , and there need to be a mechanism of accountability . where clause 3 compel the commissioner to " keep under review the impact of their activity on the achievement of sustainable development in the United Kingdom " , the word " strongly align with " would seem more appropriate . Most of the proceed of the Crown Estate — it will be lucrative , now that wind energy be a priority , as the Crown Estate own much of the seabed and there will be many more leasing round — go to the Treasury , but how the leasing round be conduct be important . if the Crown Estate ' s priority be truly to achieve sustainable development in the UK , price can not be the sole criterion for award each lease . the high bidder may not be the one who would work with the local population , consider the environmental impact , invest in further education , headquarter their development office in somewhere like Cornwall , which need it , or grow the supply chain . the way that lease be award need to be consider in the round , and we have the power to do that . exemption to World Trade Organisation rule allow contract or lease for energy security to factor in socioeconomic and environmental factor in their decision - make criterion , and we should make use of they . currently , the Crown Estate ask for annual option fee from developer . if the aim of clause 3 be truly to be the priority , surely those option fee should be deploy into build local supply chain and mitigate those environmental and other impact . the partnership between the Crown Estate and GB Energy have the potential to be a huge force for good , spearhead the development of offshore renewable energy in a speedy but sustainable way and lay the groundwork for our future energy security , build local community , infrastructure and supply chain in some of the most leave - behind and deprived area of the UK . with a unified strategy between all level of the public sector , include this public corporation , and faithful allegiance to the aim of clause 3 , the achievement of sustainable development in the UK could be the key that unlock the future potential of the Celtic sea and hopefully kick - start Cornwall ' s clean energy revolution . I will speak about the Crown Estate ' s borrow power and the broadening of its investment scope . these change be intend to enhance the Crown Estate ' s capacity to support our ambitious goal for renewable energy , nature recovery and economic growth . the Bill be undoubtedly a significant step forward in enable the Crown Estate to play a great role in the transition towards net zero . I fully support its effort and ambition . the partnership between the Crown Estate and great British Energy to develop offshore wind project be exciting . many of we have be try to get great British Energy to include community benefit and community ownership within its reach , but we have fail to do so . [ interruption . ] it do ? okay — we have try hard . a measure be to be consider in the other House on 13 January to try to get it to do that , so perhaps Labour member know something that I do not . anyway , that be good news . I want to focus on a critical element that be close to my heart , and perhaps even more familiar to my colleague , as I bang on about it . that subject be , of course , community benefit . those of we in remote and rural Britain pay far more for energy than those who can access main gas , and we also have a much high level of poverty ; especially fuel poverty . community host renewable energy project , and particularly those overlook offshore wind farm , deserve to see tangible benefit from those development . the Bill present an opportunity to ensure that offshore wind farm project — indeed , all renewable energy project — not only meet our national and global ambition but provide meaningful real - world advantage to the people most impact by they . there be numerous example from overseas of where community benefit have become significant . one such example be from Germany , where in the North sea archipelago of Heligoland three offshore wind farm generate € 22 million in 2016 . these be massive amount of money . while the Bill ' s focus be on increase borrowing power and investment flexibility , there be no mention of how community will benefit from these development , although perhaps Labour member know something that I do not . be the hon . member aware of the example of Ø rste , which have just give £ 1 million to the Horizon Youth Zone to support all young people across the Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes constituency and far afield with new activity and free mentoring and support outside school hour ? not only that ; it sponsor local fun run . rwe , another company operate in my constituency , be support education activity . both those company be not only employ masse of people but engage with school to support young people to have the skill and talent to come and work for they . that be the reality of community benefit . funnily enough , as a Highland councillor , it be a subject that I have spend many year work on . Highland council — I know this do not relate to the Crown Estate in England and Wales — have £ 9 . 1 million of community benefit and Scotland as a whole have £ 23 million . this be an industry worth hundred of billion of pound across the whole of Britain , so we should have , say , 5 % of that as community benefit , which would be transformational for Cornwall , Devon , Pembrokeshire and indeed Scotland . I encourage the House to consider how the Bill could establish a robust framework for community benefit that could serve as a model for renewable energy project across the whole of the UK , work closely with the Scottish Crown Estate . the Bill represent a vital step forward in enable the UK to meet its net zero target and enhance energy security . however , it be equally vital that we legislate to include statutory power for the Crown Estate in England and Wales , and indeed in Scotland , to ensure that these transformative project see their fair share of community benefit for community . Meur ras , Madam Deputy Speaker . I welcome the provision make in the Bill to improve the governance of the Crown Estate and broaden its investment power and capacity to borrow . as state in the Bill , the change will mean that commissioner can undertake activity such as invest in port infrastructure and in digital technology to map the seabed . as a Cornish MP , it be the seabed that I will focus on for the next few minute . commissioner will be enable to assist with investment in public infrastructure for the benefit of the nation . I support those provision on the basis that the Crown Estate will use its increase power to invest in area of high deprivation where there be a clear commercial potential , such as , as have be mention , float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . in that respect , Cornwall be perhaps the good example of where post - industrial deprivation be high , yet — I be sorry to mention this with Welsh Members in the Chamber — it be the close land mass to much of the Celtic sea float offshore wind opportunity . as have be mention , Cornwall be also home to the third deep natural harbour in the world , in Falmouth . the development of the port of Falmouth would support the export potential of critical mineral such as tin from my constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , and of lithium that will be mine in Cornwall . as mention by my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) , Cornwall ' s economic development be also hold back by a lack of grid connectivity . I hope that support for the Bill will result in significant improvement in that area . the Crown Estate play a fundamental role as an enabler of infrastructure project . the Bill insert a new subsection into the Crown Estate Act 1961 require the commissioner to keep under review the impact of their activity on the achievement of sustainable development in the United Kingdom . I sincerely hope that minister agree that deprive community such mine in Camborne , Redruth and Hayle should be the direct beneficiary of this development through the work of the Crown Estate . I also hope that the Crown Estate fully understand the expectation of deprive coastal community in every corner of England , Wales , Northern Ireland and Cornwall . I can well understand the need to update the Crown Estate Act , particularly in regard to the financial reach of the Crown Estate and the assistance that it may require . it be perfectly clear in this debate that member have rightly discern that the real drive force behind this legislation be to twin the promotion of offshore wind energy with great British Energy . that seem to be the primary motivation behind much of the Bill . if the government create circumstance where the Crown Estate be require and facilitate to increase its own financial success and they twin it with the promotion of GB Energy , they inevitably incentivise the development of offshore wind , which have its part to play , but it be not the answer to all our need . in Northern Ireland I have see proposal for offshore energy , particularly in the South Down area , that have provoke great and rightful opposition from the fishing industry , lead to substantial difficulty . yet it be quite clear that where the Bill talk about sustainable development , it be not in respect of the historic use of our sea as fishing ground but in respect of our sea as site for offshore wind energy . as another hon . Member say , there be a tension between offshore wind farm and fishing . it seem from the Bill that the Government have make up their mind about which be the priority . we have hear in this debate that the definition of sustainable development specific to the Bill will be very much orientate to the climate change theology . it will therefore place the need for wind farm above the need of the fishing industry , which will not serve the interest of our coastal community well . there be a need to reinstate some balance in that regard . there be an interesting contrast between clause 3 , which focus on sustainable development , with the obvious meaning I have reference , and clause 5 , which I know the Government have say they will be remove . in clause 5 , which relate to salmon farming , one of the matter to be look at be the environmental impact ; however , when it come to wind farm , there be no requirement to look at the environmental impact — only at sustainable development , which be couch in term that favour offshore wind development . I think of my own constituency of North Antrim , where there be already proposal to put huge offshore wind farm not far offshore , just beyond the territory that contain the wonderful Giant ' s Causeway and Rathlin island — cheek by jowl , coastwise , with area of outstanding natural beauty . I do not think that would enhance the coastline or the water in and around North Antrim . there have be similar proposal off Portstewart in County Londonderry . when I read the Bill , it seem to I that the incentivising — it be much more than a nudge — be towards push along offshore wind farm with little regard , and certainly no corresponding regard , to the environmental impact that they could have on whole community . I be strike by the fact that many of the people live in the hon . and learn Gentleman ' s constituency will be deal with extremely high energy bill in poorly insulate house , and will be desperate to see those energy bill go down and to see decent job come back to Northern Ireland , and for they and their community to thrive . I also recognise the value and importance of heritage site . my constituency in Thanet be surround on three side by sea and have enormous opportunity for offshore wind , but we also want to retain the value and beauty of our surround environment . can the hon . and learn Gentleman not see that these thing be reconcilable ? this be not a theology , but a science and an economic requirement of this country so that it can serve his constituent , as well as mine . the point I be make be that the tension in the Bill between the environmental impact and sustainable development — the codeword for offshore wind — be out of kilter . it be very much weight in favour of offshore wind , with little or no regard , it would seem , give to the environmental impact . I be simply say to the House that we need to have regard to both . I do not think we serve future generation well if we surrender the beauty and serenity of the coastline that we enjoy , to be blot for year to come by huge offshore wind farm . offshore wind farm have their place , but that be not in every place — that , I think , be the key point . take the Giant ' s Causeway , which be a UNESCO world heritage site . be we say there should be giant wind farm shortly beyond it ? what would that do for the UNESCO set of the Giant ' s Causeway , or for other site around the United Kingdom ? I be therefore advocate caution . I be advocate that we remember that it be about not just offshore wind farm , but preserve and protect our environment and get the balance right , and I be not sure that the Bill do that . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate alongside so many of my coastal colleague . it put I in slightly odd company , because Lichfield , Burntwood and the village be quite a long way from the edge . we be quite a long way from the coast , but it be important to have some representation from the middle of England . when we look at the desire outcome of the Bill and what it will mean for constituent across England , Wales and Scotland in coastal and non - coastal community , it be about growth and job . very few of those job in float offshore wind be likely to be along the River Trent , but this be about build a country that work for everybody across the country for the future . in my constituency , I be fortunate to have an agricultural Crown Estate holding . a wonderful strength of the Crown Estate be that it support so much agriculture across the country — that most traditional and important of industry which provide we with the food we eat . it be a real strength of our country that so much of the land in the Crown Estate be lease out to farmer who can go off and do their thing and run their business . the Bill seek to update the Crown Estate . no legislation relate to the Crown Estate have be pass since 1961 — 24 year before there be a Dave Robertson . by update the Crown Estate , we make it ready for the 21st century . as of about a week ago , we be now in the second quarter of the 21st century , a fact I be struggle to compute . make change to allow the Crown Estate to invest in the industry of the future will bring job and investment into the UK . that will grow our economy , which will be feel across the entire country , tackle real pocket of deprivation , particularly around the coast . that will in itself be beneficial , unlock economic growth and drive wealth creation right across the UK . it will also drive investment everywhere . the simple fact be that we now have another large investor operate in the UK , mean that other investor will be able to seek other opportunity . if any be listen , please have a chat with I ; there be some site I would like to talk to they about , particularly Burntwood town centre . alongside that point , there be another really important issue . there have perhaps not be enough focus on the real value of the Bill in help we to reach our net zero goal . this week , in large part of my constituency a large number of farmer have again find their field replace by some type of aquatic environment because of flooding . yet again , King ' s Bromley have almost be cut off . climate change be real . climate change be here . it be have an economic impact and a social impact — a real - world impact . we need to take step to achieve our goal . allow the Crown Estate to partner with great British Energy in the way the Bill propose , allow it to drive down the carbon cost of our energy and help we to move to that just transition , will not only cut energy bill everywhere in the country — Lichfield , Burntwood , the village and everywhere — but drive up investment and bring economic growth everywhere across the UK . it will also help we to meet our obligation on the climate crisis , which will have a material impact on the life of our child , our child ' s child and all generation to come . on that basis , it be an absolute pleasure to say that I fully support the Bill . I look forward to help it through its further stage through Parliament . I welcome the Government ' s propose power to enable the Crown Estate to drive great investment in the country ' s future to boost energy security , nature recovery and economic growth . it should be allow to access private sector funding to expand and get the great benefit possible from its access to financing , and not retreat to market have to survive on their own and not deliver , or recourse to the public sector for critical funding to grow industry . I want to focus on clause 3 , which deal with sustainable development , and to pick up some of the comment that be make in Committee in the House of Lords . my constituency be at the forefront of the delivery of practical skill in the day - to - day operation and continued maintenance of the offshore wind sector , and my constituent benefit from apprenticeship , introductory training , continuous professional development and , critically , long - term , well - pay employment in the sector . the Bill have the potential to open up possibility for broad community engagement through the promotion of various educational opportunity in numerous workstream . have work with the Crown Estate in a previous role before return to this place , I must say that I have have a slightly different experience from my hon . friend the Member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) . I know that in recent year the Crown Estate have seek to expand the area of work in which it actively engage , and have provide immense support for the renewable sector . we should bear in mind that there have be a collective understanding — not just within our government — that for energy security purpose we must , as a minimum , look at renewable energy source to supplement our other energy source as we progress , and as we view the global economic and the change impact of the energy industry and the way in which other be maximise this change to encourage wealth into their country . we know that not just the present Government but government around the world , and previous government in this place , have recognise that we should accept and embrace this move , see it not as something divisive or prohibitive to other sector but as something that will be the mainstay of this country . simply object to it and say no will not help to move thing forward . we should be work together , as I think the renewable sector have be endeavour to do and have be enable to do in a much strong way through the partnership that the Crown Estate have facilitate , to unite the many different relevant party in seek appropriate solution to some of the most testing and challenging issue that the industry face , include people and skill , environmental impact and derogation , the unlocking of the UK supply chain , spatial squeeze , offshore asset security — which have not be discuss today — and aviation impact , which have not be refer to either . the Crown Estate have play a critical role in ensure that the voice be hear in each of the area where this new industry be have an impact — and it be have an impact , as I think the industry itself recognise — in the knowledge that this must be do in collaboration and co - operation with the other exist organisation , industry and operator in those sector . through the evidence and change programme , it become clear to everyone involve , include those who might have be less than happy that a new industry be make thing different and challenge in certain circumstance , that the early these issue be consider as part of the Crown Estate ' s planning and scoping , the easy it be to fulfil the exist and basic expectation of both the Crown Estate and the renewable sector from a Government perspective . early consultation and partnership work on common difficulty and challenge mean that agreeable solution be find early , and it be then possible to build acceptable framework for future use . some of that be in evidence now , in the context of the Celtic sea development and the fishing community in those area . the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) , who be my co - chair on the all - party parliamentary group on fishery , rightly raise the issue and concern that the fishing community will have . however , in Committee in the Lords , there be a conversation about the regional wealth fund that the Bill will create . it seem to I that there be a prize opportunity for support and training for the fishing industry , to make it work alongside the renewable sector and to look at the opportunity that will come from the decarbonisation happen in that sector when it come to offshore vessel and flexibility of service , so that a fishing vessel be not just a fishing vessel . can it be use for multiple purpose ? can it be use for survey ? it can , because fishing vessel be already be use for survey . there be an opportunity for the Bill to support those other industry , and we should not lose sight of that . with these new way of work , there be a great opportunity to expand the level of knowledge and understanding of the sector , to be able to teach the next generation of young people about how thing really work in practice . to date , that have be a bit more experimental , I think it be fair to say , but because the sector be mature and all the organisation involve have become more experienced , there be much more collective learning , and there be clear line of guidance that the Crown Estate have a definitive interest in ensure a wide and common understanding . I would like to focus on the people and skill area of work , which the Crown Estate have have some engagement in . there be an acceptance that the workforce will grow and need to grow substantially . for area such as mine and other coastal community , ensure that we have a skilled workforce ready to go be imperative . it be much more effective to ensure that people have the skill to get the job to earn their own way and have some pride in their life , work in an industry they be proud to be work in , than to simply rely on other community benefit that may well be short - lived and do not have the long - term impact that grow a brand - new industry around the country deliver . we know that the workforce will need more than three time its current number — I have write in my speech " over the next decade " , but I do not think that be true ; actually , it be over the next half a decade , which be hardly anything at all — to meet the need of the industry , and that be across all the different area I mention such as environmental impact and aviation . may I come back to the community benefit , which the hon . Member bring up in her intervention on I ? the community benefit will be hundred of million for 25 year or the life of the project . it will be absolutely transformational to the most rural part of Britain ; it be not just something that will come and go . I thank the hon . member for that comment . it be about how we view community benefit and how embed in community they be . the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) talk about thing be do with community , not to they . this be about what will well benefit a community and have that discussion at an early stage , which be what I have be advocate . the traditional understanding of community benefit be payment for a local football team ' s shirt or thing like that , but that be not what I see this industry or this Bill unlocking . it need to be about transform local community , which , critically , come through skill , through the supply chain and through deliver industrial benefit that local people have access to . that be the thrust of what I be try to say — clearly I have not be successful , if the hon . member for Inverness , Skye and West Ross - shire ( Mr MacDonald ) do not see that , but I will persevere , which I be sure he will be delighted to know . interestingly , the Crown Estate have recently support a community project in my constituency call Projekt Renewables — it have a " k " , give it a slightly nordic slant on thing . it be a box park construction next to the Grimsby Fishing Heritage Centre , bring together the old and the new , and the past , present and future . it provide community education , and it be a space to bring together school , business and visitor to learn about the renewable sector in Grimsby , include its history , its importance and the possibility for the future . the community education piece be incredibly important , and we do not talk about it enough . the Crown Estate recognise that there be a need for wide understanding of activity , some of which be significant or significantly disruptive in local area , so that resident can well understand what be happen in their place . I keep talk about opportunity , because some member have not see this Bill as an opportunity for expansion , investment , growth and long - term change . the Bill actually unlock quite a lot of that . there be an opportunity not only for great expansion of public information and education , but to have a single standard of available material and off - the - shelf information to support local area . that would help provide a general understanding that would stop individual company produce their own bespoke education programme . we should have something that be uniform and that provide the fact , and then company can build on that if they want . it would be a much strong offer , and more beneficial to collective understanding because of the uniformity . however , there be further step that the Crown Estate could take to provide local people with skill , to guarantee sustainable development . in my area , the freeport be already undertake some work on skill . under the new devolution plan , there be provision for skill to be a key strand of mayoral responsibility , but how can the Crown Estate fit into that model ? I believe that it really must do so to maximise the benefit of all the organisation , and to have a common theme and common objective . arguably , the Crown Estate have a lot more to lose if the skill be not there for offshore deployment and long - term maintenance support . new project such as the able quay , which be just outside my constituency , will make offshore wind ambition deliverable . it will open up the supply chain investment opportunity that we have be wait for — frankly , for far too long — and enable the Crown Estate to generate significant revenue and value for the UK . the Crown Estate could do so currently but , under the new proposal in the Bill , have an even great opportunity to invest in infrastructure such as the able quay . port facility be hold back the sector and the core skill that be currently in shortage in the industry , as well as those that we know will become a critical blockage in the future once the newly consent project get under way . if we really want to maximise the value of project and see the UK get the big bang for its buck , it be essential to use every arm of every organisation to actively support they in overcome the challenge . I know that the Crown Estate be willing — and I have see it in action , so I know that it be also able — but I wonder whether this Bill need to say explicitly that it have a duty to focus on infrastructure and skill , which be so critical . not have those prerequisite in place could make project undeliverable , and no developer or supply chain company can oversupply or invest ahead of decision , because the Crown Estate make so many of the final decision , alongside the Government . no one can invest until those decision be make . devolution and the creation of GB Energy — two great leap in structural change in this country — give a great opportunity for new public institution to be create in order to intervene in skill . in the Humber region , I would like to see an arrangement or organisation that bring together the Crown Estate , the new devolved authority , the freeport and the Humber Energy Board . with support from the like of GB Energy and central Government , it could back a coherent approach to support skill and avoid their become a barrier to project delivery , as well as reduce cost by supply enough talent for the whole sector , rather than each project chase the same small pool of people . we should use the Bill to catalyse substantial and lasting change , provide employment opportunity for generation to come . I understand that Crown Estate Scotland be already carry out similar effort , actively promote skill and job opportunity through initiative such as community capacity grant , which support social enterprise project and training course , and land - base skill education , so I do not think that be beyond the scope of the Bill . I be pleased to speak in today ' s debate , because although the Bill be short , it be an incredibly important piece of legislation , not least because it tie together two thing that we on the government Benches care about : unlock growth and drive clean energy . perhaps Conservative Members do not care about those thing , judge by the conservative Benches today . the Bill give we the chance to start deliver the growth that this country desperately need , without require a new fiscal statement or drastic economic reform . most importantly , the Bill will benefit my constituent in York Outer and the country as a whole . for too long , the Crown Estate ' s ability to act as an engine for growth have be hold back by outdated rule . imagine a business sit on vast potential — real estate , seabed right and asset worth billion — but unable to reinvest or leverage those resource to their full extent : the Bill change that . by free up the Crown Estate ' s balance sheet and allow it to operate more like a modern , agile business , it create the condition for growth , without require sweeping fiscal reform or additional taxpayer contribution . however , the Bill be not just about number on a balance sheet ; it be also about impact . through the Crown Estate ' s role in renewable energy , the legislation will support the creation of new project , secure our domestic energy production and unlock up to £ 60 billion in private sector investment . that be the kind of forward - think approach we need to create a secure and prosperous future . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill be another example of how this Labour Government be roll up their sleeve , get the job do , and create growth and job for community in York Outer and in Harlow ? I always agree with my hon . friend . he will recognise the impact the Bill bring not only to the Crown Estate but to GB Energy , which be one of the first initiative implement by the new Government . take together with the great british Energy Bill , these be two piece of thoughtful , complementary legislation that will support our green energy transition and economic growth — what a stark contrast to the previous Government , who not only run out of idea but fail to make the few idea they have work in the first place . the interaction between the Crown Estate Bill and the great british Energy Bill be vital . in York Outer , we have a number of exciting project that be ready to go and exemplify how these change can drive forward our ambition for a clean , secure energy future . for example , propose battery storage facility in York Outer could become critical national infrastructure for our local energy network , and Hessay solar farm be award funding from the contract for difference scheme a few month ago . I welcome the exploration of wind project , such as the Harewood Whin green energy park and the North Wigginton onshore wind project . just today , we discover that wind power be Britain ' s large source of electricity in 2024 , top gas - fire power plant for the first time in history . with the Crown Estate Bill , we can make even more project like those in York Outer possible , unlock clean energy for my region and beyond . that take I to the issue of energy security . conservative Members , wherever they be , continue to oppose our publicly own clean power company . perhaps they have forget why it be so crucial to transfer power back into the hand of the british people . the myopic and naive approach of the last Government leave our energy portfolio far too expose . the Bill support Britain ' s flexibility and freedom to secure our own energy supply . it enable british household to be support by british power — produce , own and deliver by the british people . that be what great British Energy be all about . we have all see the cost of rely on foreign oil and gas . family and business pay the price of our energy supply be dictate by foreign power . under this Government , that need to stop — and it will stop . this Bill be a huge win for our energy independence . but the benefit of this Bill go beyond energy . the Crown Estate be already a significant contributor to the public purse — last year it generate over £ 1 billion in net revenue profit , much of which be return to the Treasury . by give the Crown Estate the freedom to reinvest and modernise , we can grow that figure even far . that be not just a win for Government revenue ; it be a win for taxpayer , as the money can be reinveste in public service and infrastructure in York Outer and across the UK . I know that some conservative Members , wherever they be , may worry about fiscal rule . I reassure they that although the Bill be radical in what it achieve , it do so in a sensible manner . by allow the Crown Estate initially to use its cash reserve for investment , there be no immediate need to trigger new borrowing power . this be therefore a measured approach that create confidence for investor , while keep fiscal discipline intact . it be not about rip up the rulebook ; it be about use the rulebook more effectively . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech , which I be sure those on the Front Bench be enjoy . he mention sensibleness and moderation — both word I would use to describe my constituent . will he join I in urge the Crown Estate , as it enjoy its new freedom and power in look to invest for the future , to give a thought to the people , the place and the economy of Newcastle - under - Lyme ? I be half - expect my hon . friend to mention Walleys quarry , although I can not conceive of how he would link it to the Crown Estate Bill . he will agree that the additional revenue raise by the Bill will benefit his constituent as much as mine . over the past decade , the Crown Estate have return £ 4 . 1 billion in net revenue profit to the Treasury . just imagine how much more it could achieve with the freedom that this Bill provide — not just for the country , but for constituency such as York Outer . this be what smart , forward - think legislation look like : support business , secure energy and drive growth . I urge member on both side of the House , and particularly conservative Members , wherever they be , to back this Bill and help we deliver a bright , green and more prosperous future . I call the shadow Minister . with the leave of the House , it be a pleasure to respond briefly on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition . [ interruption . ] I do not know whether there be a party go on to which I have not be invite , but I be personally very happy to be here to take part in the debate . this have be a good debate , with more than 10 member contribute , and not only from coastal area such as my Norfolk constituency ; we have also hear from the hon . member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) , which underline the importance of the Crown Estate to all our constituency . the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) and for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) speak about the potential benefit of investment in their constituency and their part of the world , include the funding of college course , which be important , as well as investment in energy production . the hon . member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) may want to get some tip from the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) about how to get on with the Crown Estate , how to get it to do what he actually want it to do , and how to secure the benefit for his constituency . perhaps he can have a reset with the Crown Estate . a number of member speak about community benefit , which be very important to secure public support for new infrastructure , be that energy or other issue . Labour Members speak quite a bit about cut energy bill . I distinctly remember the pledge they all make during the election campaign to cut energy bill by £ 300 , but energy bill be go up and there be no date for when they will come down . voter and constituent will remember the pledge and , at the moment , all they can see be their cost go up . the concern be that the pace at which the Energy Secretary want to drive forward will actually drive up cost for all of our constituent . I begin my remark by emphasise that the Crown Estate be neither the property of the government nor part of the sovereign ' s private estate . that be key . its core purpose be to maintain and enhance the value of the estate and the income derive from it . that be why great transparency be need about the partnership with GB Energy . the Minister will have hear and , I be sure , note down all the question from my opening speech , so I will not repeat they all , but I will repeat this : will he commit to publish the partnership agreement before we head into the Committee stage ? I be afraid that some of the contribution we have hear have only fuel my suspicion of the Government ' s intention to use the Crown Estate as a vehicle for its energy policy and as a provisional part of the GB Energy body , whatever that may turn out to be . that raise issue about how investment will be determine and the return that be generate for the taxpayer , as well as the risk surround investment , whether crowd in , as hon . member have refer to , actually happen , whether investment in port will drive a return , and why commercial provider be not seek to make similar investment . that conflict and risk be one of the concern of my right hon . friend the Member for the Wrekin ( Mark Pritchard ) , who be sadly not in his place . I hope that the Treasury Committee will engage with that point when it examine the nominate new chairman of the Crown Estate commissioner . that be also why it be important that Parliament have oversight of borrowing limit , rather than that just be in an MOU that can be change at the Treasury ' s whim . that be an important protection that we have in place , and I know that the Minister will also respond to that point in his remark . will he also get back to the specific point I raise about disposal and the seabed , and the commitment that Lord Livermore make on Report in the other place about protection and whether an amendment be need and will be forthcoming ? to conclude , there be wide support for the Bill from across the House , but the short - term interest of the Government should not come at the long - term expense of the Crown Estate and the nation . I look forward to continue the scrutiny of the Bill in Committee . I call the shadow Minister to wind up . it be a pleasure to close this debate on the Crown Estate . may I wish you , Madam Deputy Speaker , a happy new year ? I be grateful to the shadow Minister for his comment today , as well as for the contribution of all my hon . friend . I be particularly grateful for the Opposition ' s support for the Bill in general , which they display by their absence this afternoon . I welcome the question set out by the shadow Minister and I will go through some of those in my remark . as the Chief Secretary to the Treasury note in his opening speech , the purpose of the Bill be to bring the legislation govern the Crown Estate into the 21st century by make a targeted and measure enhancement to its power and governance . without the Bill , the Crown Estate would continue to be restrict in its ability to compete and invest and would therefore be limit in its ability to deliver return to the public purse . the Bill therefore broaden the scope of the activity that the Crown Estate can engage in , enable it to far invest in the energy transition that we know be so crucial . it empower the Crown Estate to invest in capital - intensive project more effectively and , critically , the measure will unlock more long - term investment , increase the contribution that the Crown Estate can make to create high - quality job and drive growth across the UK . I turn to some of the point raise in the debate . I appreciate the shadow Minister ' s broad support for the Bill ' s aim . on his specific question about the Crown Estate ' s borrow power , the Bill be clear that any borrowing undertake by the Crown Estate can only be from the Treasury or otherwise with Treasury consent . the Treasury will , of course , ensure that any borrowing be consistent with our fiscal rule . there will , as have be note , be a memorandum of understanding in place between the Treasury and the Crown Estate , and that will govern how borrowing power will be exercise . as with any public sector borrowing , the Treasury will ensure that that be consistent with manage public money principle to ensure value for money for the taxpayer . the shadow Minister also ask specific question about commissioner ' pre - appointment scrutiny . I want to set out for he how the appointment of other commissioner be likely to work . the Crown Estate commissioner who manage the Crown Estate be appoint by his Majesty on the recommendation of Ministers . the appointment process be govern by the code for public appointment . the reform in the Bill will not alter the fundamental statutory basis of the Crown Estate , which be as a commercial business that be independent of government , operate for profit , compete in the marketplace and need to recruit the high quality talent to its board of commissioner . within that context , it would not be appropriate for either the Government or Parliament to place further requirement on the recruitment process . the shadow Minister also ask about chief executive pay . the detail of a chief executive ' s remuneration be a matter for the Crown Estate board , which be operationally independent of government , as I set out . as the Crown Estate be statutorily an independent , commercial organisation , which return hundred of million of pound in profit to the Exchequer every year , continue the success be crucial and it require the organisation to have the freedom to compete for the top talent in the commercial world . we know that cheap executive remuneration in this context be set at the low end of the private sector peer group , which be agree with the Treasury . the majority of the package be in fact conditional on performance , which ensure that the chief executive reward be heavily dependent on deliver long - term value to the Exchequer . the shadow Minister also ask about governance when it come to the Crown Estate and great British Energy . I can set out to he the operational matter in regard to the partnership , but they will be determine in their final detail by the passing of the great british Energy Bill , which be currently go through Parliament . once it complete all its legislative stage , the partnership will be subject to an agreement between the Crown Estate and great british Energy . although the partnership agreement itself will not be publish , give that it will be commercially sensitive , the Crown Estate have commit to publish information relate to the partnership as part of its exist annual report . this will include a report on the activity of the commissioner under that partnership and any effect or benefit result from the activity of the commissioner that entail . the shadow Minister ask a specific question about the amendment on the seabed , which be debate in the other place by Lord Livermore . as hon . member may know , on Report of the Crown Estate Bill in the Lords , the Financial Secretary to the Treasury commit to bring forward an amendment , if it be need , to restrict the ability of the Crown Estate to sell the seabed . that be in response to concern from peer that the seabed , which be own by the Crown Estate , be a unique asset and therefore special protection may be warrant . as the Financial Secretary note at the time , the law on the ownership of the seabed be complex , so official be work with the Crown Estate to establish the extent to which the Crown Estate can currently sell the seabed . if it be establish that further legislation be require to restrict the ability of the Crown Estate to sell the seabed , we will look to bring forward an amendment at Committee stage . finally , the shadow Minister mention the measure on salmon that be insert in the Bill in the other place . there be a fundamental question about whether the Bill be an appropriate vehicle for a debate about the right of salmon and protect animal right in that context . in England , Wales and Northern England , to which the Bill apply , there be on Crown Estate - own land only one relevant area — one relevant salmon farm . the issue really relate more widely to Scotland , which be govern by Crown Estate Scotland and not by the provision in this Bill . we know that fishery policy be the responsibility of devolved Government in Scotland . all fish farm in England be regulate with the intention to ensure that it be carry out in a responsible manner . give that virtually all salmon aquaculture in the UK take place in Scotland , the matter be really one for a different debate . as well as the comment from the shadow Minister , we also hear from the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) . many point that she raise have be cover in what I have say so far , although she raise an additional point that align with comment by the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) about how the Crown Estate will balance the expansion of offshore renewable with the need of the fishing industry , marine wildlife and so on . I wish to set out briefly the Government ' s position on that matter . we know that the Crown Estate be committed to sustainable management of the seabed and , where appropriate , it collaborate with industry stakeholder , marine licence body and environmental non - governmental organisation to ensure that activity on the seabed be conduct responsibly . as with any developer , the proposal of the Crown Estate go through a standard planning application process , which include the relevant environmental assessment . under the Crown Estate strategy , it have an objective to take a leading role in stewarde the natural environment and biodiversity . key to deliver that aim be manage the seabed in a way that reduce pressure on , and accelerate the recovery of , our marine environment . the Bill will not directly impact on how much commercial fishing take place in area manage by the Crown Estate . my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) raise an important point around grid connection and grid connectivity , which be vital to ensure that our plan to move towards clean energy be effective . his point be important as part of the connection between the Crown Estate and great British Energy , which we have be talk about during the debate . one benefit of the Crown Estate work with great British Energy be that they can work together to speed up the process of develop clean energy project , include co - ordinating planning requirement and grid connection , as well as lease land to de - risk and speed up project so that private developer can get on and build they . that will be crucial to unlock the private investment and speed up the deployment of clean energy infrastructure . as well as de - risk private sector investment , GB Energy and the Crown Estate will directly co - invest in clean energy infrastructure . that will include float offshore wind and carbon capture project . several of my hon . friend make important point around local community benefit and supply chain . I thank in particular my hon . friend the Members for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) , for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) and for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) and the hon . member for Inverness , Skye and West Ross - shire ( Mr MacDonald ) . they all focus on the importance of community benefit , local supply chain and investment in job and skill . my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) make a helpful set of point around the importance of long - term community benefit — that is , people who be not just build infrastructure , make a one - off payment and then leave , but actually make a long - term investment in the area and the people who live there . she refer to Projekt renewable in her constituency , and it would be interesting to discuss that with she after the debate . look more broadly at what the Crown Estate have be do and intend to do on invest in local community benefit , it be commit to work with local community and partner to enable employment and skill opportunity . for example , it have allocate £ 50 million through the supply chain accelerator to stimulate green job . it be also develop a green skill pipeline from a GCSE in engineering skill for offshore wind , seed - fund by the Crown Estate and develop with Cornwall college , to a post - 16 destination renewable course with Pembrokeshire college . the Crown Estate be partner with the employment charity Workwhile to create green construction apprenticeship . on offshore wind specifically , the Crown Estate have work on upskille frontline Department for Work and Pensions work coach to be well equipped to support job seeker in the offshore wind industry through the offshore wind learn programme and specifically in relation to offshore lease round 5 , which hon . member have mention . the Crown Estate have design the leasing process in such a way that developer have to make commitment to deliver social and environmental value as part of the development of new wind farm , include a requirement to provide an apprenticeship plan and a skill development plan . the Crown Estate be also commit to work with community to ensure that future generation can make the most of the opportunity that marine energy will bring . it be work closely with local educational institution , such as Falmouth marine school , where it help develop a pre - 16 engineering programme to build skilled local workforce , alongside other initiative , include the marine internship programme and a recent partnership with the Sea Ranger Service , which be base in Port Talbot . we hear from the hon . member for Ynys M ô n ( Llinos Medi ) , who ask question about the devolution of the Crown Estate and its function to Wales . some of the point she raise be address by my hon . friend , but it be important to recognise that the propose power in the Bill will be of huge benefit to Wales . combine with its exist scale , expertise and track record , the Crown Estate be uniquely place to help drive the activity require , such as de - risk and develop offshore renewable energy and other emerge offshore technology to realise the potential of the Celtic sea . I would be concern that further devolution of the Crown Estate in the manner suggest could fragment the renewable energy market and undermine the strong international investor confidence in the UK to the detriment of both Wales and the wide UK . it would risk create further complexity and delay our drive for energy security and net zero at a time when simplicity and accelerate deployment be essential . that be why the Government believe that the exist provision be the good way to ensure that the asset of the Crown Estate be manage most effectively to benefit people across Wales , England and Northern Ireland . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) speak of his concern about environmental impact . offshore wind be essential to meet our net zero and energy security objective , which I hope he support , but to get the wide balance right , the habitat regulation assessment process ensure that we can deliver our offshore wind requirement while maintain environmental protection . the Government be also consult on revision to the national planning policy framework to increase support for renewable energy scheme in order to tackle climate change while safeguard environmental resource . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) and for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) for their particularly impassione support for the principle behind the Bill and what it set out to achieve . as my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield say , it be crucial for investment , growth and modernise the Crown Estate for the 21st century . my hon . friend the Member for York Outer focus on the power of the Bill ' s measure reform to modernise the Crown Estate and support growth in a fiscally responsible way while generate revenue that will benefit our constituent across the country . I hope that I have manage to address hon . member ’ point . as my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury and I have set out , the Bill deliver a targeted and measure enhancement to the Crown Estate ' s power and governance , thereby modernise it for the 21st century . it broaden the scope of activity that the Crown Estate can engage in , enable it to far invest in the energy transition , and empower it to invest more effectively in capital - intensive project . critically , the measure in it will unlock more long - term investment and increase the contribution of the Crown Estate to generate high - quality job and drive growth across the UK . growth be at the heart of our Government ' s mission . I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . CROWN estate BILL [ LORDS ] ( PROGRAMME ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Crown Estate Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 11 February . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . proceeding on consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which proceeding on consideration be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . CROWN ESTATE BILL [ LORDS ] ( money ) king ' s recommendation signify . resolve , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Crown Estate Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise ( 1 ) the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any expenditure incur by the Treasury under any other Act that be attributable to the Act ; ( 2 ) the payment out of the National Loans Fund of any sum payable out of the fund under any other Act that be attributable to the Act . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) Road Safety Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) happy new year , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be grateful for the chance to have this debate , and I thank the Minister for her attendance and for her work on tackle this issue , include through the upcoming road safety strategy . I request the debate because our current approach to road safety be in desperate need of overhaul . although a few local authority have robust and innovative approach to road safety , too many lack the resource or political will to implement proactive safety measure , which be increasingly make road safety a postcode lottery . too often , safety intervention come as a response to collision , rather than as proactive measure to prevent they . we do not listen to our community and have fail to invest and to learn from international good practice . as a result , progress in reduce road death have largely plateaue in recent year . the UK have pass a grim and shame milestone : 500 , 000 people have die on the road in Great Britain since record begin in 1926 . that be more than the number of UK citizen kill as a result of warfare in the same period , include in the second world war . I be well aware that this be a complex and multi - dimensional issue to which we can not do justice in such a short debate , so rather than try to address every aspect of road safety , I will instead focus on a couple of link aspect that be of particular concern to my Rossendale and Darwen constituent — specifically , speeding and issue relate to large commercial vehicle . Rossendale and Darwen be a constituency of a road run down valley , with relatively few alternative route , and most residential and commercial development extend along those line . I live off Burnley Road in Bacup , and the live experience of resident along that road serve to highlight most of the issue I want to raise today . ask anyone who live on Burnley Road and they will tell you that speeding be endemic . there have be serious injury and fatality , but more fundamentally , resident will cite numerous close call and the fear they generate . for example , one house on a bend in the road have now be hit by speed vehicle three time . in one case , a vehicle impact on a spot where a pedestrian have be stand just second before , and when we live on the main road , a car judge to be speed at over 100 mph hit my wife ' s car with such force that it be lift up and land on mine — that be in a 30 mph zone . there be many more story like those ; indeed , just this morning , constituent contact I about a particularly serious close call , which I can not detail now because it may go to court . to compound this , the road be very heavily use by large commercial vehicle . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will — it would be a pleasure . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this debate forward . I speak to he beforehand — through two or three different people , but I get to he eventually . I be intrigue by the title of the debate , " Prevention - base road safety and community involvement " , simply because in my constituency , back in October of last year , we have a double - decker bus take child from school . it be travel along the Ballyblack Road outside Carrowdore , go towards Bangor and Newtownards , and it fall over . thank goodness , nobody be kill , but some child be injure . the point I want to make , which I think be important and fit with the theme of the hon . Gentleman ' s debate , be that while we must have ongoing road safety and infrastructure project in place , we also need community involvement in safety . it be the community who respond to the incident — the nurse and doctor on the road and the farmer who come across the field . community involvement be really important ; if we want to improve safety , we must have the community tie in . I fully agree with the hon . Gentleman — indeed , that be the main subject that I will try to focus on today . it be hugely important that we listen to our community , because in the end , not only do our community know good , but they be the one who experience the consequence of these decision . Burnley Road be very heavily use by large commercial vehicle , and there have be numerous close call with those vehicle as well . resident see they speed or travel in convoy , too often with their driver on a mobile phone . this be a massive concern around the local primary school , which — like many in Rossendale and Darwen — be site directly on the main road . last year , two big wagon manage to crash into each other just outside the school . narrow pavement and a lack of safe crossing area far increase the risk , and it be hardly a surprise that many parent be reluctant to let their kid walk even a short distance to school . I can not think of anyone who ride a bike there . in my constituency , we have the busy a444 , which run from Stanton right through to Acresford on the border with North West Leicestershire . that road have vary speed limit along its length . it be a huge concern to the community ; we have large articulated lorry travel very fast on that road , sometimes on very skinny road . we also have a primary school close to Stanton where there be no close pelican crossing , so there be no safe way for family with young child to cross the road and get they to school . my community feel very much that highway authority do not listen to sense when it come to speed limit . do my hon . friend agree that it be time for we to work with local community and reconsider their involvement in how rule be make for the application of speed limit and where we put crossing ? I agree 100 % with my hon . friend . she have frame her example tremendously well — the great fear that most of we have be that combination of primary school , unsafe road and large vehicle . sadly , that can only end one way . rise — I will give way to my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) . a constituent of mine lose her son , Alan , in a dreadful accident on the A14 in September 2023 . he die in a collision with a lorry that be stationary on a live lane . the lorry driver be disqualify from drive , and have no mot on his trailer and no insurance . despite the driver commit road safety offence , the Crown Prosecution Service determine that the driver do not cause the death under current legislation , and he be only charge with disqualify driving . will the Minister commit to examine the Road Traffic Act 1988 with a view to introduce an offence focus on presence , rather than cause ? I would suggest this wording : " a person be disqualify from drive — " Order . I be just go to make the point to member that intervention be get very long . we have some hour to conclude this debate , so if member wish to make a full contribution , they will be able to do so , rather than simply make an intervention . my hon . friend raise a hugely important issue about the regulation of commercial vehicle , and the level of responsibility that company and employer take for their driver be a crucial part of this debate . to return to the story of Burnley Road in Rossendale , I have describe the various instance of close call , and when we bring all this together , the obvious conclusion that resident reach , include myself , be that without further action further death and serious injury be inevitable . the great fear we have be that everyone can see this coming , and when it come and there have be no action , I think we will all feel that we have fail . I thank my hon . friend for bring forward this debate , which be hugely important . I be pleased to see my hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) here , as we share on the edge of our constituency one of the most dangerous road junction in the country , between the end of Woodford Lane and the A5 in Mancetter . our community know that dangerous accident happen there on a far too regular basis , with fatality and serious injury require attendance from air ambulance as well as other crew . do my hon . friend agree that our community know well about need to implement preventive strategy for road safety rather than wait for yet more life to be lose before we actually do something about it ? again , I agree 100 % with my hon . friend . the role of community be absolutely vital . in my own area , there be a serious problem with a lack of co - operation between Oxfordshire county council , as the neighbouring local authority , and read borough council . sadly , Oxfordshire , despite request from Reading , have allow heavy good vehicle to go through a reading suburb call Caversham and into read town centre when they could be divert on to much safe route . there have be repeat request for Oxfordshire to work more constructively with reading . do my hon . friend agree with I that there should be great emphasis on co - operation between neighbour local authority as part of this preventive approach , which he be so ably describe , to try to avoid unnecessary injury and death ? absolutely . I will touch on this later , but I feel that devolution and local government reorganisation create a huge opportunity to ensure new level of co - operation between authority , and we should have no hard border when it come to road safety . again , the conclusion we reach be that we need action to prevent death and injury , yet when community raise their concern and real - world experience with the county council and the police , they be tell that the KSI — kill or seriously injure — datum do not meet the threshold for speed camera and other meaningful intervention . do my hon . friend agree that , too often , an accident wait to happen have be force to become an accident that have happen before action be take , and that when community know that a road they live on and live with every day be unsafe , we should listen to those community much more and act before the accident happen ? I agree entirely . again , it be devastating for community to raise those issue repeatedly , stridently and sometimes desperately , yet feel that they be not be hear . the message they get back be , in effect , " we have to wait for someone to get kill before we do anything " , which be surely be not the message our community should be hear . as well as Burnley Road in Rossendale , I could tell story about Todmorden Road , Burnley Road East through Whitewell Bottom , Market Street in Whitworth , Bury Road in Edenfield , Newchurch Road in Waterfoot , Bolton Road , Sunnyhurst Lane , Hollins Grove and Pole Lane in Darwen . in each case , resident see close call day by day , but be tell that the statistic do not merit action , and even when they do , they be simply tell there be no money . this approach be nonsensical and out of line with even the county council ' s own adopt vision zero strategy and be decade behind those employ internationally . ultimately it cost life and money . beyond this , unsafe road have far - reach impact affect an area ' s sense of place and identity . they take life , devastate family and shake up community . road feel to be unsafe have a significant impact on the day - to - day life of people live near they . resident feel less able to get around , uncomfortable on their own doorstep and cut off from each other . this be an important subject . there seem to be a common denominator in many of the comment : the significance of rural area . I note that my hon . friend ' s constituency have large rural area , as do mine . do he agree that there be a particular challenge — whether with rural b road or even major national road or national infrastructure , such as the A1 that run through my constituency — with the type of vehicle on the road and the proximity to small local community , make they particularly unsafe , and that that should therefore be a priority for our national road safety strategy ? absolutely , and those committee feel particularly vulnerable and under threat . the issue be that mixture of rural road couple with the speed limit and then compact village sit along those road , with those change in road condition . rural road be often wind , unlit and poorly maintain , all of which require additional driving skill . many young people in my constituency find themselves need to drive at 17 to access education or other opportunity , and we have a high prevalence of young driver be kill . I be think particularly of Harvey Owen , one of four boy kill on their way to Wales after only a week after pass their driving test . More than 1 , 500 young people be kill every year — order . the hon . Lady might not have be here to hear my early comment . there be plenty of time for member to make speech if they so choose — this debate do not need to conclude until 7 . 30 pm — but we really must not have prepare speech read out disguise as intervention . my hon . friend make that vital point extremely well . I will touch on it again later , but young driver be an important topic that merit a debate in its own right . on feel safe or unsafe on road and the impact of that , we can take the example of active travel . the big reason why people do not walk or cycle to work or school be concern over road safety . this force people to travel by car , with all the impact that bring and accentuate all the issue we be talk about . I rise at the point when the Deputy Speaker be change ; it feel like something from " Dr who " — [ laughter . ] apology , I be think out loud there . this debate be on an extremely important subject for my hon . friend ' s constituent . on active travel , good habit start early in life , and that be particularly true of walk and cycling . in Edinburgh South West , parent and resident be keen to work with the council to make it easy and safe for child to walk to Nether Currie primary school , and they be really open to collaboration . do my hon . friend agree that if we be serious about tackle road safety issue in rural area and our town and city , we have to work with our school community to make sure it be absolutely embed in they ? absolutely . this be a hugely important issue and , as in many other area , we know the solution . fantastic work be do by organisation such as Active Travel England that detail the solution , yet our current or past funding structure make it incredibly difficult . I be campaign in our constituency for a safe path to a school , yet I find there be essentially no dedicated funding opportunity to meet that very obvious and stark need . this be an absolutely crucial area . I mention active travel , but there be also the question of old people . resident in social housing along Newchurch Road in Rossendale feel trap in their estate because there be literally nowhere safe to cross the road near they to reach the amenity they need . in 2023 , there be 1 , 624 road death in Great Britain and 132 , 977 casualty in total . pedestrian , cyclist , and motorcyclist still make up a disproportionate share of those kill or seriously injure on UK road . department for Transport estimate suggest that the annual cost of report road collision be around £ 43 billion . we can not afford any of these cost , so what do we do about it ? we know the basic principle , and we have touch on they in the debate , with many member raise they brilliantly . many local authority have adopt strategy base around vision zero , which be an approach originally adopt in country such as Sweden and the Netherlands . it emphasise that no level of death or serious injury be acceptable on the road , and it be focus on prevention , protection and post - collision response , couple with evidence - base target and robust safety performance indicator . we know that such approach can be effective and save a great deal of money over the long term , but as we have see and hear , there seem to be a huge gap between strategy and practical implementation . if we want to be serious about tackle this issue , we must move towards a truly proactive , community - lead approach to road safety that be inform by statistic and not lead by they . in such a model , rather than claim that a centrally hold database know well , we trust the instinct , experience and wish of those who use the road every day . instead of wait around until enough people have be hurt to merit an intervention , we proactively identify high - risk area , and we act . an excellent example of that approach in action can be see in the Netherlands . over the past decade , both Rotterdam and the Hague have be use an algorithm to determine the likelihood of crash on their road . the model consider a range of factor , include past crash , traffic flow , the feature of the road , and the presence of on - road parking . from that , it create a risk rating for each road . crucially , this rating inform , rather than lead , the local authority ’ decision . community experience and input be a key factor in the decision - make process . the rating be combine with an analysis of the volume and severity of complaint the authority receive regard specific road . out of this community - lead , data - inform model , the local authority choose to proactively intervene to protect their citizen . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . it be personal to I , as I lose my grandfather in a road traffic accident before I be even bear , and my grandmother be leave with disability . Shipley experience 183 road casualty in 2023 , one of which be fatal . my hon . friend mention vision zero . West Yorkshire have a vision zero partnership that seek to eliminate all traffic fatality and injury by 2040 . it bring together the combine authority with local authority , emergency service and National Highways , as well as victim support and road safety campaigner — speak to his point about community . be there still a place — I suggest that there be — for these vision zero partnership , alongside the community approach that he be advocate ? order . before the hon . member respond , I remind member that intervention should be short and to the point . I agree fully with my hon . friend , and there be no conflict between a vision zero approach and the community - lead approach I be talk about . the issue be that while vision zero have be adopt by many local authority , the implementation fall far short of the intent . it be therefore a question of find the appropriate implementation and delivery mechanism , rather than just rehash the strategy . as well as the Netherlands model I mention , similar preventive work have be pioneer by researcher use automatically collect datum from car sensor to identify dangerous section of road . that be interesting , because it collect datum that key success indicator stat do not highlight . they collate real - world datum where car harshly and suddenly brake . these model have prove effective in predict area of danger , and such system could be use to proactively examine hotspot before collision occur , take account of near miss and validation experience with community such as ours . I thank the hon . member for secure this important debate . in my constituency , the A96 , which go from Aberdeen to Huntly and up to Inverness , and the A90 north of Ellon be know as accident blackspot . on these road , we know that local resident be not go out , because of the fear of an accident , which have an impact on our local economy , and emergency vehicle response time . do he agree that emergency response time and local economic impact should be part of the basis of assessment of where safety improvement should be put in on road across the country ? I thank the hon . member for make that point . how we value road safety intervention must recognise the full gamut of those impact . far too often , we use narrow measure of cost - benefit . emergency response , impact on wide infrastructure and the general feeling of be unsafe be hugely important consideration . I have try to highlight a few approach to identify area of risk proactively before collision occur . again , we know how to do this . with those risk identify , we also have a range of effective , advanced intervention that we can utilise to reduce the risk of incident . average speed camera have be prove to be particularly effective , yet due to fear about cost and a lack of awareness of advanced technology , many authority have be reluctant to implement they . look at the evidence , a review by the RAC Foundation find a 36 . 4 % reduction in serious or fatal injury at site with average speed camera instal , with a further 16 % reduction in incident of all severity . in some case , the installation of speed camera have reduce incident by up to 86 % . with Lancashire county council value the cost of a road - relate fatality at £ 2 million — I do not know how it get to that figure , but none the less that be the figure be use — it be no surprise that effective safety measure like these save the Government money in the long term . the College of Policing have find that through a reduction in medical treatment and repair fee , the financial benefit of these scheme exceed their cost by 3 : 1 . on the point make by the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) , that be on a narrow basis , perhaps not recognise some of the wide impact . the figure only increase when we look at the benefit beyond five year . I urge the Minister to use the upcoming strategy to stress the significant long - term benefit of proactively implement speed reduction scheme with average speed camera . my hon . friend talk about a number of scheme , but have he look at the 20 mph speed limit in Wales , which come into force in September 2023 ? insurance company such as Esure have say that it have reduce risk and that it be also begin to reduce the premium that people pay in residential area . we do not just have long and fast road in our constituency , but also residential area , where that 20 mph speed limit have an impact . there be no doubt that speed limit be a crucial part of this work , as long as they be target and appropriate . however , I cite the need for effective enforcement , because if people feel that there be no consequence from break those speed limit , they will be break . enforcement be a crucial part of the consideration . return to average speed camera , I urge the Minister to consider how share good practice between authority could be improve . as the College of Policing note , and as I and colleague have see all the time , there be a significant variation in the method use to implement average speed camera and assess their validity . many authority be unaware of the significant cost save measure that have be pioneer over the last decade and the new technology that exist . to take one example , we be tell by Lancashire county council that a relatively small average speed system on one key road in Rossendale be unviable as it would cost many million to implement and maintain , yet when we approach a Home Office - approve supplier recommend by another local authority see to be a pioneer in the area , we be give a quote of £ 800 , 000 for not just that scheme , but three other that together cover all the key risk area in Rossendale . that huge disparity demonstrate not only how funding might be use inefficiently , but how local authority be unnecessarily be hold back from implement scheme by an out - of - date view of their cost . we need to recognise that cost be a genuine factor and that funding model under the previous Government be wholly inadequate , with road safety budget squeeze alongside other local authority budget . under the last Labour Government , we have a system of net off road fine , which help to fund road safety enforcement activity . that should be review as a possible funding stream to pay for road safety improvement , increase police number and make the good use of new and exist technology to reduce road risk . with increase information sharing , clarity over the cost of such scheme and hypothecate fund , there be significant potential to reduce the obstacle to enforcement that local authority believe they face . in addition to speed reduction method , major gain can be make through improve pavement and create cycle lane through a genuine safe - system approach . shockingly , of all road death in 2023 , 25 % be pedestrian , with cyclist account for 5 % . despite many local vision zero strategy , our road safety design evidently fail to protect those vulnerable user . I urge the Minister to use the upcoming strategy to encourage council to meet their ambition with action , utilise support from Active Travel England and genuinely adopt safe system approach . that require proactive intervention , whether through establish clear and protect cycle lane , construct safe footway or build new traffic light and crossing where need . another key area that we can tackle be the safety of commercial vehicle , as we have touch on . as I mention , there be school in my constituency that border dangerous road that be frequently use by large commercial vehicle . due to the force of impact , hgv be the second most dangerous vehicle on the road , kill 6 . 9 people per billion passenger mile — significantly high than the comparative figure of 1 . 6 for car . consider that , it be completely unacceptable that in 2023 , 36 % of lorry be see to exceed the speed limit . driver often have minimal oversight and training from company , which have weak corporate safety standard . we must proactively recognise and respond to the heighten risk that such vehicle pose . one crucial step could be to incentivise company to maintain high safety standard in their fleet , be that through offer low insurance to company that demonstrate good practice , name and shame company that do not , or even make company fully liable for work - relate collision . alongside that , a variety of other proactive , low - cost method could be use to improve the safety of our road — for instance , tighten the regulation on tyre safety . poor tyre accentuate the impact of speeding or poor driving . over the past decade , an average of 182 people have be kill or seriously injure per year because of poor tyre condition . mot flag over two million car with sub - standard tyre each year , 1 million of which be so poor that they be consider actively dangerous . give the improvement in tyre technology , couple with the fact that the high proportion of serious incident occur in the winter month , there be room for the Minister to consider mandate that all new vehicle be equip with all - season tyre . more generally , there be significant opportunity offer by safe vehicle technology , which can be embed through advanced vehicle safety regulation . let I touch on a point raise early about driver education , particularly protect young driver . this be a complex area , which need a debate in its own right , but give that 16 % of car driver fatality be young driver , there be no doubt that this area really need attention . finally , as we have touch on , increase devolution be also central to ensure that community ' voice be hear . in place such as Lancashire , road safety intervention be still determined on a county level . official and county councillor be often very far remove from the road and community impact by their decision . when this responsibility be hold on a unitary level , the voice of community be loud , and decision maker be much close to the area in question . give the widespread local government reorganisation come in this Parliament , the Minister have a significant opportunity to establish good practice in new unitary and combined authority . I urge she to seize this unique opportunity , and to provide meaningful support and guidance to these emerge authority . to wrap up , consider the reactive and inefficient approach to road safety that the Minister inherit from the previous Government , I urge she to utilise her upcoming road safety strategy to move the country towards a preventive , community - lead and statistic - inform model of road safety , alongside a sustainable funding approach . central to that approach , I call for the follow measure to be give detailed consideration within the road safety strategy : first , end the safety postcode lottery via a robust , mandate national road safety strategy , base on a community - lead , data - inform , safe system approach and , within that , prioritise live experience and perception of safety over arm - length datum . on datum , as a councillor in Farnley and Wortley and now as the MP for Leeds South West and Morley , I find that when I try to help resident with accident spot on problem road , I be often tell that the average speed on that road be not high enough for action to be warrant . I have be meet with that excuse so many time — too many to count — as both a councillor and as an MP . do my hon . friend agree that we need to move away from that ? of course we should rely on datum , but we should also speak to the people who live next to those accident spot , so that we can deal with they properly . absolutely . that be the essence of what we be talk about . give that average speed datum be a blunt tool anyway , we should ask ourselves who know good : the people who live on that road and experience it every single day , or someone sit look at an algorithm in county hall far away ? as politician and representative of our constituent , the answer that we should give be that the community know well . we should put in system to support their everyday live experience , not the other way around . secondly — and this point be link to the first — we have to use the opportunity present by devolution and local government reorganisation to embed good practice , include improve information sharing between authority regard the availability of new and emerge road safety technology . thirdly , we must address the barrier to proactive implementation and enforcement measure , particularly average speed camera . fourthly , we have to develop a sustainable funding model base on bring back net off . fifthly , we must make company fully responsible for the action of their driver on public road . sixthly , we need a genuine safe system approach to road and pavement design to protect pedestrian and cyclist . finally , we need to address accentuate factor via advanced safety and vehicle safety regulation and develop approach to protect young driver . I be look forward to hear the Minister ' s response , as road safety be a big issue in the Sussex Weald . before I call she , though , I be tell there be three very short contribution from Back Benchers . my worry be that there be more people stand than I have be alert to — they will need to make their way to the Chair quickly , in the appropriate way , and make it clear what they be try to do . contribution will be short . first , I call my fellow Brummie , Paulette Hamilton . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) for secure this important debate . the issue of road safety be vital and we need a sustainable funding model . local council be a key player in improve prevention - base road safety . I have hear a lot about rural setting from hon . member this afternoon , but my constituency be in the middle of a city , and the problem occur within city be just as bad . People veer from main road and go on to side street . I would like to share an incident that take place this morning in my constituency , where yet another vehicle strike the bridge on Summer Road . this follow a recent incident where a truck collide with the same bridge and overturn . it be the third such occurrence since last November — it be simply unacceptable . do the Minister agree that the local council need to step up and implement measure to address this issue , not only to prevent the severe disruption that be cause by these accident , but to ensure the safety of other road user and pedestrian ? my time as a nurse teach I that prevention be well than cure ; it be much well to take measure now than to risk the safety of local resident in area across this country . thank you so much — short and sweet . I will also try to be short and sweet , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) on bring forth such an important subject . he allude in his excellent speech to the sheer number of fatality , and it be perhaps worth reflect on the fact that there be three time the number of road fatality than homicide in an average year , which be something we could all bear in mind as we go about drive on the road . I want to draw member ' attention to the importance of listen to our constituent who have sadly suffer the trauma of lose someone in a road traffic collision . in my constituency I have Giulietta and George Galli - Atkinson , who for 26 year have run the Livia award , which recognise the professionalism and service to justice of police officer . I have the honour of speak at the 26th award ceremony at the Metropolitan police headquarter this year . the award be in memory of their daughter , who sadly be kill by a dangerous driver . I mention that because I believe it be incumbent on we to listen to the voice of those who have suffer the trauma and devastation of such unnecessary , preventable death . we need to hear their word and act on they . community involvement be critical . in conclusion , we must get the message across to our constituent that road collision be , in all but the small number of case , not accident — they be preventable ; they be avoidable . we must all take responsibility , include national Government . my hon . friend the Minister take these issue very seriously . we must tighten the law wherever we can and I know she be look at various way to do that . we must fund local authority for their excellent work to help increase road safety and empower police force to enforce our road traffic law . we must do everything we can to empower ordinary citizen to engage with this really important issue . we must ensure that ordinary citizen be in control of our road , not those who would endanger we all through their selfishness and criminality through dangerous and reckless driving . finally , we must take responsibility as individual . our constituent must take responsibility for drive more safely whenever they can so that we reduce the tragic number of avoidable and terrible death on our road and the ten of thousand of serious injury . we must reduce that number as much as possible . I be very grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen for give we the opportunity to reflect on these important matter and to encourage the Government to do everything in their power to ensure that the number of road death and injury be reduce significantly . to help the Minister prepare , we have three more very short Back - Bench contribution . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) for secure this excellent and pertinent debate . all member come with horror story from our own constituency , after family have be in touch with we . I mention that in Shrewsbury it be the family of Harvey Owen , who die with three other young child age between 17 and 18 on a trip to Wales . the driver have be pass for one week . that story be not unfamiliar in rural town and area like mine , where public service have be decimate . we have lose 5 , 000 bus route since 2010 , which mean that 17 - year - old find themselves with no alternative but to learn to drive in order to access education , sport and social activity . that experience be reflect across the country , but particularly so in rural area . young driver , age between 17 and 24 , be consistently over - represent in the statistic . very distressingly , globally road traffic injury be the lead cause of death for young people between the age of 15 and 29 , and one in five driver will crash within their first year on the road . a national campaign group call Forget - I - not Families Uniting bring together family who have lose young people . one of those campaigner , Crystal Owen , the mother of Harvey Owen , who be from my constituency , put together a petition with 22 , 000 signature , ask Ministers to look at measure to protect young driver in particular . the Minister very graciously give her time to meet Harvey ' s mum and listen carefully to some of those suggestion , such as additional training for young driver and progressive licensing , and safety measure such as " Harvey ' s hammer " , a device that could smash open a window if a car be trap . that could save many life . I know the Minister be work really hard to develop a road safety strategy . I hope she will hear the message that young driver be three time more likely to die . we must consider they in those safety measure and , in so do , understand that this have a strong prevalence in rural area . member may be pleased to hear that today I have be grant a Westminster Hall debate on road safety measure , in particular to protect young driver . I hope they will join I on Tuesday 29 January at 9 . 30 am . in conclusion , I again appeal to the Minister that policy must go hand in hand with the other work we be do to increase public transport , particularly in rural area . it must be a viable alternative . I know the Minister will join I in my dream for Shrewsbury to have evening bus and a Sunday service . that would encourage young people to embrace public transport , rather than risk their life on the road . as a rural Member of Parliament , I tend to share the hon . Lady ' s dream . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) for initiate this important debate . I have hear many passionate argument tonight about why our road should be safe , and about death that be wait to happen and be preventable , but I have be involve in a situation in which a death actually happen . even after an 11 - year - old be kill on one of our road , we have to fight and campaign with his grieve mother for the road to be improve . Harley James Jackson be kill during his first half - term at secondary school . his mum have to campaign to persuade the county council to make the improvement to that road , and it take two and a half year . we be tell that the mean average speed on the road of 38 mph be within the expect range , although speed of 5 mph and 80 mph at 8 pm be record in the speed datum . the data be not consistent . we be also tell by the safety officer during our campaign that there be 50 road with similar speed characteristic but there be fund for only two . this death could have be prevent . we know that the road be dangerous ; the community have say so , and the community campaign . I can guarantee that no one know more about that road than the mother of that child , who have campaign ever since . we need to listen to these people in order to prevent such thing from happen again . that be a very powerful speech . I call Amanda Martin to make the final Back - Bench contribution . I welcome this important debate . a number of cause for concern be be raise with I by my constituent , and all of they be preventable . first , abandon car be routinely be leave at the side of a road in my constituency , usually near car dealership , with no mot or insurance . they can sit there for week , and they cause a hazard , because local schoolchildren be have to walk around they . one constituent contact the council , only to be tell that it be not the council ' s responsibility and the constituent should go to the police . the police say , " go to the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency " , and the DVLA say , " go back to the council . " someone need to take responsibility ; that be vital . the second problem be congestion . car pull up in bus lane where there be no double yellow line , near hospital , when road be jam - pack with bus . no one can get in or out , and that cause not only delay but accident and damage to vehicle . congestion , and accident , be also cause by narrow street and road that be use as rat run , with car run all the way down they . resident of Oakwood Road have be push for a one - way street , although there be speed bump , because it would help with the flow of traffic and also with safety ; the street in question be very near a school . finally , there be the serious issue of zebra crossing safety . a lack of signage mean that crossing be ignore . one , in Baffins , be next to a sixth - form college and also near school , and hundred of pupil cross the road every day , but that zebra crossing and other be often ignore . I call the Minister . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) on secure the debate , and thank he for continue to raise the issue of road safety in his constituency . I be pleased , and somewhat surprised , to see that so many of my hon . friend have come to the Chamber to contribute to this vital discussion about reduce death and injury on our road . it be welcome to have have more time than we might have expect for an Adjournment debate . the Government be commit to road safety , because it contribute to every single one of our national mission . safe road enable economic growth and opportunity , support greener journey through active travel , reduce pressure on our NHS , and help people to travel without fear . my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen clearly describe the impact that road danger have on his local resident , and other member have make equally valuable point , particularly highlight the impact on child and their ability to travel safely and make those vital journey to school and in their local community . More than four people lose their life every single day on our road , and as a number of member have say , we know that most of these death be avoidable , the result of excess speed , drive under the influence of drink or drug and frequently both , use a mobile phone behind the wheel or not wear seatbelt . my hon . friend be right to raise concern about those who do not use our road appropriately and place themselves and other in harm ' s way . in my short time as future of road Minister , I have read too many heartbreaking account of loss and serious injury , and we have hear more example this evening , include from my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) , who be not in his place ; I can not comment on the specific of that case , but I would be happy to meet he to discuss his concern . I have speak to grieve family member rightfully demand change . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) for speak on behalf of his constituent this evening and for the work that he and they be do to campaign on this issue . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) for the work she have do in her constituency and with her constituent . the Transport Secretary and I be determined to make our road safe for everyone who use they . the lack of progress on road safety over the past decade have be inexcusable . there have be no direction and no long - term vision , and that be reflect in the statistic , with drink - drive death at their high level in 15 year . in 2022 , around 300 people be tragically kill where at least one driver be over the drink - drive limit . that represent 18 % of all fatality . in the same year , 203 people be kill in a road collision where at least one deceased driver have an impairment drug detect . that be 13 % of all fatality . we need to tackle these illegal behaviour . as the Secretary of State have state , tackle reckless behaviour on the road be a priority for she and for we , because these statistic — more than 1 , 600 death a year and almost 30 , 000 serious injury — be not inevitable . our think ! campaign continue to address key priority around drink - driving , speeding and seatbelt . our innovative campaign around positive choice and the power of peer influence be target at young man age 17 to 24 — a group that be four time more likely to be kill or seriously injure on our road . my hon . friend the Member for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) speak about her constituent Crystal Owen , who lose her son Harvey in heartbreaking circumstance , and I look forward to the debate that she have secure . these life - save behaviour change campaign matter , and we will continue to work on they . I turn to the important point that my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen make on community road safety intervention . traffic authority have the responsibility for make decision about the road they manage . that include measure to protect the safety of road user base on their knowledge of the area , take into account local need and consideration . that must include listen to local community . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) make an important contribution about a dangerous road in her constituency , and I be sure that her concern and those of her local constituent will have be hear by the relevant local authority and the Mayor of the West Midlands . traffic authority be well place to make these decision , but my Department also have a really important role : we need to set the enable legislation and national policy objective and provide good practice , guidance and , of course , vital funding . I agree with my hon . friend that the risk rating of a road should be a consideration when design road safety intervention . since 2017 , the safe road fund have provide £ 185 . 8 million to address the danger on 99 high - risk road , work with the relevant local authority to reduce fatality and serious injury . the programme have provide vital infrastructure intervention where they be need the most , take into account those who be kill or seriously injure but also traffic flow and the potential hazard on a road . it be really important work . a number of hon . member have rightly highlight the danger on rural road , include you , Madam Deputy Speaker . we need to look to the future and understand how new technology can help prevent future collision . my hon . friend talk about some of the international comparison and how we might draw on those in the future . when it come to speed , local authority have the power to set speed limit on their road . it be for local authority to determine what measure be appropriate in individual case , because they have local knowledge . they also have a range of traffic management measure available to help they improve safety outside school , include 20 mph speed limit , traffic calm and the introduction of school street where appropriate . local authority be able to place advisory part - time 20 mph speed limit sign in the vicinity of school without the need for Government approval . I listen with interest to my hon . friend ' s suggestion to implement " net off " . the previous trial allow fix penalty revenue to be use to reinvest in more camera enforcement , and the national scheme that follow end on 1 April 2007 . the funding of camera be integrate into the local transport plan process at the same time that the scheme end . pay fine and penalty receipt such as speed fine into the consolidated fund be generally consider preferable to ringfence or hypothecate specific funding . the risk of appear to create incentive to collect fine and penalty receipt for the sake of generate revenue , rather than for the purpose of enforcement and road safety , need very careful consideration if we be to retain public trust in tackle speed . I be sure that my hon . friend be aware that most central Government funding for local government be not ringfence so that local authority can make the good decision relate to their local priority . money from the Consolidated Fund support general expenditure on public service , include those that motorist will benefit from , such as healthcare , policing , local government grant and transport . nevertheless , he make an important point , and I will certainly look into it far . the enforcement of road traffic law be vital , and how available resource be deploy be the responsibility of individual chief officer and police and crime commissioner , take into account the specific local problem and demand that they face . my hon . friend make important point that I will consider far , include about people who drive for a living and the important role that we can play in ensure that employer take their responsibility seriously . I turn to my hon . friend ' s point about tyre . Tyre labelling regulation require a new tyre ' s wet grip performance to be display at the point of sale , along with other attribute . the rating be establish follow standardised test , and present in a consistent manner that help the consumer to see the relative performance and make an informed choice . the market surveillance unit in the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency check new car tyre supply into the market be accurate with respect to their assign wet grip , fuel efficiency and external noise rating . the unit have also work closely with trading standard relative to part - worn and re - treaded tyre seller , support any sanction that trading standard may take in respect of non - compliance . the DVSA welcome intelligence about part - worn and re - treaded tyre compliance . the last Labour Government halve the number of people kill on our road each year , but under the conservative that progress stall , with only a 12 % reduction between 2010 and 2023 . that be a legacy that my Government be determined to put right . that be why we have announce that we be develop a new road safety strategy , the first in over a decade . I can assure my hon . friend that we will continue to use the " safe system " approach to support our thinking , be evidence base and ensure responsibility for tackle the problem be share among policy maker , those who enforce our law , those who design our road and those who use they . we will be set out next step in due course . my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen make a number of really important point in his contribution , and I will be work with official to consider they far , as we continue our work in this area . I will be pleased to keep in touch with he , and other hon . friend here today , as we progress our work on road safety . I once again congratulate he on secure this important debate , and everyone who make a contribution this evening . question put and agree to . House adjourn .