Oral Answers to Questions Culture , Media and Sport the Secretary of State be ask — Remote Betting and Gaming Duty : horserace if she will produce an impact assessment for the propose remote bet and game duty on the british horserace industry . the Secretary of State be in Japan for the world expo conference in Osaka , strengthen UK - Japan relation . I know that she have write to you , Mr Speaker , to explain her absence . the Government recognise the significant contribution that horserace make to the british economy . in that spirit , I pay tribute to Rachael Blackmore . she have have a fantastic impact on the sport and have enjoy enormous success , and I wish she well with her retirement . his Majesty ' s Treasury lead on the consultation on the tax treatment of remote gambling . the consultation be open till 21 July , and any impact assessment of any legislative change will be a matter for that Department . the racing industry be get a bit tired of the warm word and lack of action . at the last oral question , the Secretary of State say that " we need to treat different form of gamble differently " , — [ Official Report , 3 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 412 . ] but the Government have since propose a flat tax on all online gambling , which fail to distinguish between bet on sport like horseracing , which be limit by the number of race and require knowledge and thought , and online casino and gaming . however , problem rate for bet on race be about the same as for lottery scratchcard . will the Minister commit here and now to make sure that bet on sport like racing be not treat the same as bet on online casino and gaming ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I be a big supporter of racing , and I appreciate how many job it contribute to the economy — accord to the British Horseracing Authority , it be 85 , 000 . I know that racing be really important to rural area and town . of course , the consultation to which he refer be a Treasury lead . it be open till 21 July , but I will reflect his comment to the Treasury . Doncaster racecourse be the jewel in my city ' s crown , and be home to the iconic St Leger festival . follow on from the question from the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , can the Minister confirm that she will continue dialogue with the Treasury on the propose flat rate of tax , recognise that horseracing — which , as she say , bring 85 , 000 job to the country nationally , and be the second large spectator sport in the UK — be very different from online casino and game of chance ? I absolutely will reflect those comment to the Treasury . I have have many a fun time at the St Leger , which be just down the road from I in Barnsley , and I would be delighted to visit again , if I can . UK Film Production what step her Department be take to help incentivise film production in the UK . we support and incentivise film production in the UK through our range of audiovisual tax relief , through support for business rate relief , and through funding directly to the industry . in Broxbourne , we be mean to be see the £ 700 million Sunset Studios project , which be now sadly not go ahead , in part due to the national insurance increase , new employment regulation and this Government ' s handling of the economy . be that what the Government mean by support the film industry ? what utter nonsense ! the hon . Gentleman may only just have arrive in this House in the last year — of course , today be the anniversary of the moment when the former Prime Minister call the election and it rain on his parade . I simply point out that the company suspend its plan in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency in 2023 , when there be a Conservative Government . we have fantastic film and tv sector in Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire , and I be determined to make sure that more of our young people can access they . I recently have the pleasure of join North Herts college to open its fantastic new Purwell Studios , mean that young people in my constituency can access state - of - the - art training facility in their area . how be the Minister work with the Department for Education to make sure that more young people can access the fantastic career opportunity that the film sector offer ? I be glad somebody be celebrate the film industry . my hon . friend be absolutely right : we need to make sure that kid from every single constituency in this land can think of the possibility of work in the film industry . I be delighted that since we introduce our two new tax relief in last autumn ' s Budget , we have already see a large number of people make application to the British Film Institute , and I be absolutely certain that that will mean that the british film and television sector in the UK will be very lively for many year to come . grassroots sport : Cannock Chase what step her Department be take to support the provision of grassroots sport facility in Cannock Chase constituency . the Government know the value of grassroots sport facility to community , and the role that they play in get people active . Sport England invest over £ 250 million of lottery and Government funding each year in the community that need it most . I very much welcome the Minister ' s response . through the park tennis project , Cannock Chase have benefit from £ 215 , 000 of investment from the Government and the LTA Tennis Foundation to revive tennis court in four of our park , but the notorious british weather remain a barrier to participation , and many in my town and village lack access to covered tennis and padel facility . with the park tennis project come to an end , will the Minister consider fund the development of more cover court to allow my constituent to enjoy tennis , whatever the weather ? this Government want to ensure that everyone from all walk of life can get active in any way that work for they , come rain or shine . I therefore welcome the Lawn Tennis Association ' s strategic ambition to grow tennis and padel by make it accessible , welcoming , enjoyable and inspiring , but all future decision on sport facility will be consider in the spending review . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the support of the hon . member for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) for our investment in his constituency while we be in government . in all seriousness , however , I would like to put on record our condolence to the family of the two israeli embassy staff kill overnight in Washington . grassroots facility be key to our community and our sport club across the country , which be why we conservative invest more than £ 500 million in the next generation of athlete . however , in just 10 month , this Labour Government have cut the £ 21 million multi - sport grassroot facility programme , scrap the £ 30 million Lionesses fund and cancel £ 57 million of open school facility grant . equally worryingly , they be now try to remove Sport England ' s statutory role in protect sport pitch and play field across the country . be it not clear that only the Conservatives will save our sport pitch from this " say one thing and do another " Labour Government ? I simply do not recognise the shadow Minister ' s comment , and I will not take any lesson from the Conservatives on facility , give that they oversee a decade of council cut that leave many of our sport and leisure facility in desperate need of renovation . UK - India Cultural Co - operation Agreement what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the cultural co - operation agreement between the UK and India on economic growth in the UK . the programme of cultural co - operation , which the Secretary of State sign early this month , create significant opportunity for the UK ' s cultural sector to reach a market of over 1 . 4 billion people in India . we expect this agreement to create skilled job and opportunity for young people from Southall to Kolkata over the next five year . the Liberty cinema in my constituency of Ealing Southall , now the Himalaya Palace shopping centre , be the first cinema in the country to regularly show Bollywood film , and Southall have form the backdrop of many a Bollywood movie since then , so I welcome this agreement to increase co - operation between the UK and indian film industry for the benefit of both economy . what more can the Government and the Minister do to encourage cultural partnership , so that the next generation of the british indian diaspora in Southall can continue to enjoy their vibrant heritage ? there could not be a well constituency MP than my hon . friend to highlight this subject , and to show this symbolic uniting of indian and british culture . I think british bhangra originally come out of Ealing Southall , and so many anglo - indian writer have be quintessential in determine the future of the british language , and will be part of our literary future . I be absolutely delighted that we have this cultural agreement , and we be determined to work with our indian colleague on progress all the idea that my hon . friend and other have come up with . I call the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . whether it be Bollywood , Hollywood or Borehamwood , I be sure the Minister will agree that our british cultural and creative industry be our global economic superpower . while the Secretary of State be awol today , rumour abound that the whole Department for Culture , Media and Sport be for the chop . the Minister must see that this send a terrible message to those sector about how little their government value the power of those industry . will he take this opportunity to put that rumour to bed , and if he can not , will he take this chance to put on record that it be a horrible idea ? if we be to get rid of the Department , one of the bad consequence would be our have to get rid of the Select Committee as well — and , for that matter , all those on the Opposition Front Bench . oh hang on , maybe it be a good idea . no , let we be serious . first , the Secretary of State be not absent without leave . she be do the very important job of build our relationship with Japan . secondly , I be not go to put this rumour to bed — I be go to bury it . I be absolutely certain that in a year ' s time we will be able to sing , in the word of Stephen Sondheim from the musical " Follies " , " I ' m still here " . cover Tennis Courts : Hartlepool what step she be take to help increase the number of cover tennis court in Hartlepool constituency . I be a huge supporter of tennis and the vital role that it play in get people active . I enjoy a fantastic trip to the National Tennis Centre in November , and have the pleasure of meeting staff at the LTA . the Government be commit to ensure that everyone , regardless of background , have access to and can benefit from quality sport and physical activity opportunity . Hartlepool be home to a number of thriving tennis club , include Hartlepool lawn tennis club . found in 1884 , it be one of the old active tennis club in the world . despite that history , we do not have access to cover tennis court , which mean that poor weather — common in Hartlepool — often disrupt participation , particularly for those with a disability or a long - term health condition . early this week , top british tennis player call on the UK Government to invest in a new national network of cover tennis court , and I want one for Hartlepool . will the Minister consider their request , so that every community can take part in tennis , come rain or shine ? my hon . friend be a passionate advocate for his constituency , and it be great to see the passion of the lead player . I wish they all success in their upcoming event , and I be personally very excited to see the return of woman ' s tennis to queen ' s — the Queen ' s Club championship — after 50 year . all future decision on facility will , of course , be consider in the spending review , but I be very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that far . together with the LTA , the previous Conservative Government invest £ 30 million in park tennis court — 2 , 500 of they all over the country , include in and around Hartlepool . that be to the benefit of local community , so why be this Government not continue that investment ? as I say , all future decision be for the spending review . we be a very big supporter of the LTA ' s work and be really pleased to see it , and would be happy to meet LTA to discuss it . UK artist tour the EU what progress her Department have make on remove barrier for UK artist seek to tour in the EU . I be absolutely delighted that the Prime Minister ' s EU - UK deal include a direct reference to the importance of tour artist and cultural exchange . I have already be in touch with my EU counterpart commissioner , and I intend to take the matter forward as soon as I can . I be grateful to the Minister for that response , but it be over four year since I first raise this matter in an urgent question in the House of Commons . in that time , nearly half of UK musician say that they have lose work in Europe and precious income as they confront all the Brexit barrier , visa issue and cabotage restriction . the labour manifesto vow to resolve this , and we be all grateful for the warm word in the reset document , but real action be require . when can we see our wonderful UK artist back in the concert hall and arena of Europe , travel freely and without any restriction ? that be absolutely our aim and intention , and the hon . Gentleman know that I be as commit to that as he be . obviously , the UK - EU deal be very good , but we want to make sure that we pursue all the individual issue that be raise that have not yet be resolve , and this be one of they . as I say , I have already make contact with Commissioner Micallef , and I intend to chase this down as fast as I can . I know the hon . Gentleman do not like be happy , but if I might just quote " Hamlet " to he : our doubt be traitor , and make we lose the good which oft we might win by fear to attempt . I think we ' ve get the return of Sir John Hayes . I thank the Minister for his encouraging remark about the progress of the UK - EU deal . do he agree that the change that we be make will support the vitality of London ' s west end , and provide a strong foundation for tackle the issue of carnet in our future negotiation with the EU , so that we can continue this great work ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the west end of London be very important to not just our film industry , but our tourism . cultural exchange with other country in Europe be a really important part of the deal that we have strike , and we want to build on that . the more we can do so over the come month , the well . Mr Speaker , I do not know if you talk to your counterpart anywhere else in Europe , but if you could raise the matter with they as well , that would be very helpful . marvellous . we ' ll talk to Carolyn Harris now . no , I do apologise ; I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you , Mr Speaker . I be pleased to not be forget today . [ interruption . ] if we be abolish , perhaps we will all be forget . there have be previous positive statement on tour performer , but there be no concrete good news in the UK - EU deal . tour performer be reliant on this Department to fight their corner , as be the rest of the creative industry , not least on artificial intelligence and copyright , which we be talk about later today . the Minister say he be bury the rumour about the abolition of DCMS , so why do so many people here think it will happen , and why be it be brief to the press so often ? the question I be ask myself be : why on earth be the hon . Gentleman perpetuate daft rumour ? honestly , the Department be not go to be abolish ; it would be absolute madness . this Department touch the life of nearly everybody in the country , every single day of the week , whether through sport — football , rugby , cricket , tennis — broadcasting , or our wonderful creative industry . so many different aspect of what we do touch everybody ' s life . I can not see any way in which the Department will be abolish . the hon . Gentleman ' s question be about EU touring . if he talk to all the liberal - lean government in Europe , I talk to all the socialist - lean government in Europe , and the Tories speak to , well , their colleague in Europe — for that matter , Reform could speak to some of the barmpot in Europe — then we might manage to secure EU touring . low League Football Clubs : fund what discussion she have have with the Premier League on the distribution of funding to low league football club . the Government recognise the importance of distribution to the health of English football , and have engage extensively with football authority , include the Premier League , to encourage industry to come to an agreement that work for the football pyramid . if industry be not able to solve the issue , we , of course , have the Football Governance Bill , which give the independent football regulator the power to ensure that such an agreement be make . English Football League club like my local team , Swansea City , be struggle . in fact , accord to the account for EFL championship club cover the season end May 2024 , all but four club be make a loss , with an average loss of £ 17 . 5 million for the period . what more can we do to speed up a deal between the Premier League and low - league club to ensure that fund be fairly distribute , and to help so many local team survive ? continue delay to a potential new distribution deal serve no one , and we understand the uncertainty and instability that they can cause many club , include Swansea City . we be back the football regulator , which be what I encourage member to do . the Government be keep our manifesto commitment . last week , I meet Nick from Cheadle and Gatley football club , a fantastic organisation that work to help youth football , in particular , in the area . the club be struggle , particularly with energy price , which be impact a huge amount of grassroots football across the country . what more can the Government do to get the Premier League and the large club to support low - league and grassroot club , in particular with energy price ? I know from my constituency the huge benefit that grassroots club bring . of course , the Premier League send a huge amount of money down through the pyramid . we be introduce the football regulator , which will be able to help secure a deal if a voluntary deal can not be reach ; we also have the Football Foundation , which work with the Premier League to put money into grassroots football . I would be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman to discuss the matter far . I wholeheartedly support the Football Governance Bill , which be about to begin its Committee stage in this place . it be crucial that we support football at all level of the football pyramid . what work be the Minister do to ensure that an adequate number of 3 g and 4 g pitch be available in area like my constituency ? my hon . friend be a strong champion for her area , and I have meet she to talk about grassroots facility in Dudley . we be work with the Football Foundation to ensure that we invest up and down the country in our grassroots facility . can the Minister give assurance to football fan in my constituency that with the burden of the Employment Rights Bill , the hike in national insurance contribution and the introduction of yet another regulator , there will not be a hike in ticket price ? I simply do not recognise the premise of the hon . Gentleman ' s question . the Government be commit to our manifesto commitment . the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism remind I that it be a year since the general election ; prior to that , the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) and I be on the previous Football Governance Bill Committee , where we spend many hour together . this Government have strengthen that Bill , and fan will now be consult on ticket pricing . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the nominee for the chair of the football regulator continue to raise serious question . during the Select Committee hearing , it be reveal that the candidate have donate to both the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister ' s leadership campaign , something I do not recall be declare on Second Reading . the Secretary of State have now , rightly , be force to recuse herself from the process . give that it be likely that there will be a prime ministerial interest in the appointee , will the Prime Minister do the same ? there be no suggestion of wrong - doing . indeed , David Kogan be approach under the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government for the role . we have full confidence in he ; he be endorse by the cross - party Select Committee . may I gently point out that the gentleman in question be approach not by I or by any other Minister , but by the permanent secretary who be not a political appointee . I know that the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism have be on a long audition for the role of Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , so his comment on the rumour about the abolition of the Department be reassuring . however , I gently point out that most of these briefing seem to be come from No . 10 , so will the Secretary of State speak to people in no . 10 to reassure all of those sector that this Department will remain for the year ahead ? David Kogan be appoint to the board of Channel 4 under the previous Conservative Government . he have be welcome across this House and across the medium and footballe world . my hon . friend the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism have dismiss those rumour . let we not believe everything that we read in the paper . sport Facilities : area of Housing Growth what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the provision of sporting facility in area of housing growth . access to place and space to be physically active , include in high - quality sport facility , be vital for all local community across the country . that be why we be invest £ 100 million via the multi - sport grassroot facility programme to provide access to high - quality facility and support more player get on to the pitch wherever they live . in my Oxfordshire constituency , local authority want to support the provision of major leisure facility for our grow population , include in the new estate in north - east Didcot , Valley Park and Wantage Kingsgrove . however , they have not find it possible to secure enough funding from developer via section 106 agreement . will the Minister meet I to discuss a more strategic approach to leisure provision to help we create healthy and happy community ? leisure facility be vital to get people active , and I would be delighted to meet the hon . member . in my hometown of Atherstone , the leisure centre and swimming pool be beyond its useful life . that be the case for more than 50 % of swimming facility up and down this country . when we talk about build new home , we need to make sure that we be build accessible community with facility for people to enjoy sport . as we look forward to a fantastic summer of tennis , I would also like to put in a plea for cover tennis facility , because half of the time it be rain , and people can not play tennis in the rain . we have have some very cheery message about tennis . the Lawn Tennis Association have do a very good job ahead of these question . we be commit to build 1 . 5 million new home , but we want to make sure that they be community . I agree with what my hon . friend have say , and I would be delighted to discuss it far with she . Creative Industries : Wales what step her Department be take to support the growth of creative industry in Wales . our primary support for the creative industry in Wales be through the tax relief available to video game , the audiovisual sector , theatre , museum and orchestra , and also through the screen industry ' s research and development firm Clwstwr , which be base in the Cardiff region . a musician , an animator and a horror writer be among the many constituent who have write to I recently to express their concern about generative AI be train on their work without compensation and without their consent . they need action now , not in 18 month when the damage will have be do and their work will have be scrape . what will the Minister do with the opportunity before we this afternoon in the Data ( Use and Access ) bill to ensure that our fantastic creative industry have their copyright protect and can grow ? the UK be a creative content superpower and we should do nothing to undermine that . in my hon . friend ' s constituency , there be a famous gallery that produce blue plaque , which celebrate many of the creative industry hero around the country — I launch the one for Cary Grant in Bristol not long ago . I be keen that we make sure that we protect those industry and enhance they for the future . she basically ask whether we could have a debate later today on the datum Bill , and we be go to have one . the creative industry in Wales be incredibly important , but it be also incredibly important to have creative industry everywhere in this United Kingdom . there be an opportunity for those in Northern Ireland , Scotland , Wales and England to have creative industry exchange . be that something that the Minister have consider , so that the benefit from Wales can come to Northern Ireland , Scotland and England and we can all gain ? yes , very creative . very creative indeed — all the way from Monmouth to Northern Ireland . all our creative industry function across the whole of the UK . make those link between different part of the UK be a really important part of ensure that we prosper into the future . I visit Bad Wolf studio in Cardiff a couple of week ago to see the phenomenal filming work that be be do there . obviously , Dr who have be film there . I know that many of the people who have work in Cardiff will also work in Northern Ireland , which have a very lively high - end television sector as well . Creative Industries : Bedford what step her Department be take to support the growth of creative industry in Bedford constituency . the most important thing we have do for Bedford be secure the Universal Studios theme park , which will be the big theme park in Europe and one of the big investment in the UK for many year . huge congratulation to the Department on secure the Universal Studios park — it be a major investment in Bedford . with the creative industry rightly a priority for growth , do the Minister agree that this success must also support grassroots venue such as Bedford ' s iconic esquire , which be now seek community ownership through the Music Venue Trust ' s " own our Venues " campaign ? will the Minister back effort to protect the local institution that nurture talented community identity ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; it be great that the theme park be come . the shadow Secretary of State say that it be all down to he , but he do not get it across the line . the whole point of a deal be that it be not a deal until you actually get it across the line , which we do . my hon . friend be also right that we do not just need to develop massive theme park ; we also need small venue such as the one he refer to , where I think George Ezra have perform and where Coldplay have perform twice in the past . that be one reason I be really glad that we have now manage to get over the line a levy on arena ticket to help fund small music venue across the whole of the UK . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . since the last Question Time , we have close the deal on a multibillion - pound investment in a new Universal Studios theme park , and the Secretary of State have sign a cultural co - operation agreement between the UK and India , which help underpin the free trade agreement that we conclude this month . I have be work with colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to deliver a solution to the ongoing uncertainty face the advertising and broadcasting sector , as will be report today in a write ministerial statement . the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , the whole of the Department and the Secretary of State work hard with thousand of other , include the Royal British Legion , to deliver an 80th anniversary of VE Day that we can all be proud of . Mr Speaker , I should just say that today ' s Order Paper , as you know , refer to member of Parliament who give their life during the second world war , which be actually an idea I come up with many year ago . however , there be a little mistake in it today . it refer to Major John Cartland , but it be actually Major Ronnie Cartland who give his life in the war . he be one of the brave people , and he protect thousand of other by give his life in the retreat to Dunkirk . I be glad you have a good idea , and I be glad I could fulfil your idea . congratulation , Mr Speaker . GrimFalfest be part of Grimsby ' s brilliant award - win Viking festival . it launch in 2022 , attract more than 20 , 000 visitor , and now talented local producer Julia Thompson be develop the concept and turn Grimsby into the destination of Havelok ' s kingdom . what support can the Minister offer for heritage - lead tourism project , which create economic opportunity in place such as Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ? I have look at some of the material for Havelok ' s weekend — I think he be get a weekend . I do not know the story of Grim , the fisherman who save the young Prince Havelok , but it be a great story . it be also good to see that there be a new artwork to modernise the old artwork outside the Grimsby Institute . my hon . friend be right that we need to do more for our coastal community . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister will know that our creative sector , include our artist , writer , publisher and the fashion industry to name a few , be all fight for their professional life as artificial intelligence company use their intellectual property for AI model . why will the Government not put an end to the AI copyright issue and back the amendment from the Lords , which have such overwhelming support ? for a start , we will have that debate this afternoon . I be determined that through this whole process we will get to a place where creator of every different kind , whether in music , word or image , will be able very easily to protect their copyright and gain remuneration . I also want to get to a place where AI company will pay for the work that they look at and use to create their system . I note that the Conservatives be all over the shop on this issue . they have a have a free vote , a vote on one side and a vote on the other side , and we will see whether even their Front Benchers vote this afternoon . recently I have be contact by constituent with concern that break into the art and creative industry , and stay in those industry , be incredibly difficult for those from low - income background or those live outside major city and medium hub . as the Minister know , have visit Monmouthshire many time , we have no city — only small town . what action be the Government take to create more opportunity for talented people to enter and stay in the art industry , regardless of their background ? my hon . friend make a good point . one of the thing that worry I about the creative industry in the UK be that often the only people who conceive of they as a possible career be those whose parent work in they . I do not want the creative industry to be hereditary ; I want everybody to have a chance , whatever their background . that be partly about make sure we champion the creative industry , which be our economic future . we must embrace they and ensure that everybody get a decent chance in life . apart from the sensational ice cream , I be sure the Minister will join I in congratulate Skegness on be award the prestigious blue flag for the quality of its beach . I be concerned that not enough people can enjoy that , however , because of the lack of direct public transport from London . National Express have not restore its coach service since the pandemic and there be no direct train from London to Skegness . will he work with I and the Department for Transport to try to improve direct transport link ? that be a bit transporty for I . first , the good ice cream in Britain be produce in the Rhondda by Subzero , and I be happy to have a contest with the hon . member any day of the week on that front if he want . secondly , I suggest gently to he that one of the reason the beach in the UK improve be that we join the European Union . before our membership of the European Union , all our beach be filthy and cover in tar . and obviously Frederick ' s ice cream in Chorley . early this week , I attend the launch of the Independent Venue Community , which be a charity aim to bring community activity into night - time music venue when they be usually closed . do the Minister agree that such innovative thinking be beneficial to health and wellbeing , the art sector more generally and town centre renewal ? what support can the Department offer to see such scheme roll out nationwide ? all I really want to say be yes , because I agree with everything my hon . Friend say . since you like brevity , Mr Speaker , and brevity be the soul of wit , I be just go to say yes . one of the good experience I have as a Minister in DCMS several year ago be visit 114 place around the country . I extend an offer to the Minister to come to Salisbury to see the work of Wiltshire Creative . Salisbury international art festival be start this weekend , and we would welcome his insight on how collaboration to maximise investment in cultural growth in south Wiltshire can be facilitate . I get a lot of invite . [ interruption . ] yes , I honestly do get a lot of invite — and some of they I take up . I be a bit Ado Annie : I ' m just a girl who cain ' t say no I ' m in a terrible fix I always say " come on , let ' s go " just when I orta say nix . Cannock Chase be home to many fantastic dance school such as the Crystal Academy in Hednesford , which have be crown dance school of the year . Dance can empower people from all background , but a third of school be not teach it , despite its be on the national curriculum . a varied , high - quality sport offer should not be only for a privileged few . what step be the Government take to ensure that all school can inspire their student through dance ? I think my hon . Friend ask what step I be take to promote dance . well , it take two to tango , and we be work with the Department for Education to try to ensure that creative education be a really important part of everything we do in all our school . the fact that few kid be now study creative subject be a problem , and we need to rectify it . I hear the Minister mention this in pass , but would he not concede that the voluntary grassroots music levy be not make the progress we have all hope for ? the Music Venue Trust have reveal that almost 95 % of arena and stadium show do not have any levy at all . we need that income to rejuvenate grassroots venue ; the Minister know that . surely it be now time to think of a formal levy and even legislation , if require . I have say that we will make the levy statutory if we need to do so , but we be make progress . I have want we to have make substantial progress by the first quarter of this year . the levy have already be apply to half a million ticket and I want to get to much big number by the end of the year . the Culture , Media and Sport Committee do a really good job in come up with the idea and we be determined to push it forward . if the hon . member could be less grumpy , that would help . if he could ring everybody he know in the industry and persuade they to sign up to the levy , that would be great . as this Labour Government deliver a national youth strategy and open a network of Young Futures hub , what assurance will the Minister give that the Department will learn from the good practice of charity such as the Thirst Youth Caf é and FUTUREhope in my constituency ? will she join I to meet they and find out more about how they deliver for young people in Hertford and Stortford ? the Government value youth service and we know the vital role they can play in young people ' s life . I have have a number of cross - Government meeting on this issue in the last few week . we continue to work on our national youth strategy , and if my diary allow , I will be delighted to visit . I will enter the great parliamentary ice cream competition and say that Cheshire , of course , do the good ice cream . give the huge rich in the Premier League , should there not be a great expectation that more money flow down into grassroots football and non - league club such as Knutsford FC and Witton Albion in my constituency , which work unbelievably hard just to stay afloat ? I say that especially as so many Premier League footballer live just up the road from the two club . the hon . Lady make an important point . it be not for Government to decide that , but I know from my own experience that grassroots club play a huge role in community . the Premier League contribute a lot . it be up to the Premier League to decide how much money it put down the pyramid . the issue of copyright and creative be big in the news because of artificial intelligence , but it have also be a long - run issue and it be good that the spotlight be on it . will the Minister look into a levy on IT equipment , so that people who provide their creative material on that receive some effective royalty , as happen under the book lending scheme ? this be an early idea , but if he start talk about it now in government , we might get some success . I be happy to look at anything , but we be reluctant to start put levy on thing that close down the british business . my hon . friend make a good point about try to make sure that people have an opportunity to make a career and a living out of the creative industry . it strike I that with more than 50 % of people work freelance in the industry , that be one of the thing we definitely have to look at , and I know that my hon . friend have a large sector in her constituency . somerset be home to some iconic film location such as Glastonbury Tor , which feature in " the Kid who would be King " ; Montacute House , which feature in " Wolf Hall " and " Sense and Sensibility " ; and Wells , where " Hot Fuzz " be film . what step be the Minister take to ensure that the film industry in the UK thrive and continue to use our iconic location ? the hon . Lady be right : one of the thing that bring a lot of people to the UK as tourist — we want to reach 50 million international visitor by 2030 — be see place where thing be film . I go to Bath recently and see many different place where there have be film for " Bridgerton " and lot of different movie . it be an important part of our business and sometimes we need to make sure that local authority take up such opportunity . there have be rapid expansion of new home in my constituency . however , the development of sport facility in area such as Ashby - de - la - Zouch be not keep pace , and in Hugglescote we see a fight to save the rec . how will the Minister ensure that when new home be create , we protect and develop new sport facility in park for local people ? this Government be commit to grassroots sport . that be why we have invest over £ 100 million this year . however , I will reflect my hon . friend ' s comment in discussion with the relevant Department . Billinghay swimming pool in my constituency be a much - cherish local facility , which have sadly fall into disrepair and be unable to open for the community this year . a very good local group be try to raise fund to restore it . what can the Minister do to help ? local authority suffer huge cut under the previous Government , and that be why many swimming pool have fall into disrepair . I will look into the issue for the hon . Lady . I also understand that there be a Westminster Hall debate on a similar subject the first week back after recess . the band I play in never quite get to a european tour — [ interruption . ] artist tell I how much they and their team have suffer in the disastrous post - Brexit landscape for tour artist . we have the good band and artist in the world and they bring huge joy to we here . they want to share the love abroad and in so do bring a lot of money to the UK economy . will my hon . friend assure I that he be act with haste ? as Shakespeare say , all the world ' s a stage , and all the man and woman merely player ; they have their exit and their entrance . let we open more door for they . and , " one man in his time play many part " . clearly , my hon . friend be one of those people . we be determined to sort this out . I know that there be many of we who fear that we lose many thing when Brexit happen . however , there be other wise word from Shakespeare . as Queen Margaret in " Henry VI " say : " wise man ne ' er sit and wail their loss , but cheerily seek how to redress their harm " . the amazing dancer at Eastbourne ' s shine Stars Dance Academy have qualify for the dance world cup in Spain this July . it will cost thousand of pound to get they there , though , so they have launch a crowdfunding campaign . will the Minister back their campaign to get to the world cup and congratulate they for their achievement ? yes , and if the hon . member send I a link , I will contribute myself . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . please accept my apology because , in my haste to stand up for british horseracing , I forget to refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests detail an event I attend at Doncaster racecourse in my constituency last year . that correct that . just to add , I thank the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) — the author of a good book about certain gay mps — for his early point . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — same - sex couple : Church Blessing Services what step the Church be take to roll out stand - alone service to bless same - sex couple . a proposal to enable church to opt in to the use of prayer of love and faith in stand - alone service be out for consultation and will come back to the House of Bishops in October . do my hon . friend agree that the next Archbishop of Canterbury should be someone who can show leadership on this issue , both for congregant and clergy who would want to participate in such a service , and ensure that the Church of England finally treat LGBT Anglicans in Exeter and beyond equally within the church ? I be sure my hon . friend will understand why I can not comment on who the next archbishop should be . the process be well under way , and I be sure that hon . member will join I in hold they in prayer as they go about this important work . this issue affect many people , and people have deep feeling about it . if the House of Bishops approve the proposal to enable prayer of love and faith in stand - alone service , the business committee of the General Synod could timetable this issue for a debate in February 2026 . occupy palestinian Territories : Christians what support the Church of England be provide to Christians in the occupied Palestinian Territories . what support the Church of England be provide to Christians in the occupied Palestinian Territories . in October 2023 , the Archbishops of Jerusalem and Canterbury launch an emergency appeal for the diocese of Jerusalem , and it receive donation from international partner , include the UK . the fund support people throughout the Holy Land and have support medical service for vulnerable out - patient in al - Ahli hospital in Gaza , St Luke ' s hospital in Nablus and the Penman clinic in Jenin . thousand of Palestinians , include child , be detain by the israeli military . report of mistreatment and torture date back to unicef ' s 2013 report on child in israeli military detention . last year , the UN special rapporteur highlight the escalate use of torture against palestinian detainee with people rape , electrocute , waterboarde , suspend from ceiling , tie to bed , blindfold and make to wear nappy . what can the Church do to help end this appalling cruelty ? the Church unequivocally condemn all form of violence and torture , and I know I speak for many when I say impunity for abuse against palestinian detainee must end . but there be a hard limit on what the Church can do while the israeli military continue to oppress Palestinians in the west bank and Gaza . we need an end to the occupation , a return of all israeli hostage and palestinian detainee without charge , an immediate ceasefire and all essential aid allow into Gaza . we have see increase settler violence in the west bank , and palestinian Christians be restrict and prevent from worship over Easter . I ask my hon . friend to use her good office to encourage the Church of England to do all it can , include work with other church and across faith to protect the right of the palestinian people and ensure freedom of worship across all faith in the face of increase harassment and violence . we can all agree that the mass atrocity in Gaza and the attack on civilian in the west bank have be repeatedly raise at Church Commissioner question — indeed , by my hon . friend on previous occasion . I have write to my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary on this issue . I can assure my hon . friend that bishop of the Church of England have regularly visit Palestine to hear from Christians on the ground , but it be clear that to see an end to military and settler attack on palestinian worshipper , we need to see an end to occupation . the Church be deeply concerned that worshipper be restrict from worship during the Easter period . I call the Father of the House . this week I meet Rana Musa of the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate . under the traditional status quo , the israeli authority levy arnona — the property tax — only on Church - own business property , but they be now levy it on Church property use for religious purpose . that be an existential crisis for the christian church in Jerusalem . it be part of a pattern of intolerable pressure that have result in a reduction of the christian population in the west bank to just 45 , 000 people . that must stop . I beg the Church of England , the Catholic Church , all Christians in this country and everybody else to shout at the top of their voice that Christians in the Holy Land deserve to be treat with respect . I thank the Father of the House for his question . he make a truly important point : everybody should have the freedom to worship and nobody should be allow to prevent that with impunity . as he rightly say , it be up to we — the Church of England , the Catholic Church and all people of faith — to use our voice for the voiceless . People should not be prevent from worship . open Doors report early this year that about three quarter of house belong to Christians in Gaza have be damage or totally destroy . give that that be true for people of all faith in Gaza , do the hon . Lady accept that it be incumbent on the Church , the Government and all of we to support they ? the hon . member raise another crucial point . this be not just for the church ; everybody have a responsibility to support the effort to bring about a ceasefire and peace in the region and to allow aid in unimpeded . as we all know , aid have be prevent from get into Gaza . we need it to be allow in . Electoral Commission Committee the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — Local Government Boundary Commission for England if he will make an assessment of the adequacy of the resource available to the Local Government Boundary Commission for England to deliver electoral arrangement under the " English Devolution " White Paper . the commission ' s approach to manage its work programme support it with accommodate work arise from the " English Devolution " White Paper while still deliver periodic electoral review . the committee have agree to some additional resourcing for the commission for this financial year . that will help to respond swiftly and effectively to any request for assistance in relation to the development of electoral and boundary arrangement for newly establish unitary authority . I declare an interest : I be a Central Bedfordshire councillor . it be important that the boundary commission deliver electoral arrangement that provide strong local representation throughout english devolution . will the hon . Member assure the House that resource available to the commission with be sufficient to ensure that representation be not sacrifice on the basis of arbitrary timeline for devolution ? the hon . member raise a good point and have some good inside information . some £ 500 , 000 have be allocate , but the committee will keep that under periodic review in co - operation with the commission . it be right that we have properly resource boundary commission , but we have more than one in England : the Boundary Commission for England and the Local Government Boundary Commission for England . have there be conversation at the Electoral Commission or elsewhere about amalgamate those two commission or pool resource in order to save taxpayer money ? I be not aware of such conversation at the moment , but I will raise that with the commission on her behalf . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Interfaith Cohesion what step the Church be take to help increase interfaith cohesion . the Church be a presence in every constituency across the country , work alongside all faith . Interfaith adviser work closely with local faith leader , local authority and other public body to foster well relation and understanding of different faith community . many church , include in my Battersea constituency , take part in an annual interfaith peace walk and other event . I thank my hon . friend for the work she be do represent the Church Commissioners on this matter . Ilford South be one of the most diverse constituency in the country . in central Ilford we have a mosque , a mandir , a church and a gurdwara just down the road . our faith group build community resilience and exemplify the very good of humanity — they be our bedrock . will my hon . friend join I in celebrate the diversity of our faith group in Ilford South , and what conversation she have have with the Church Commissioners on how the Church continue to strengthen this interfaith work ? it be a pleasure to congratulate the work of faith group in my hon . friend ' s constituency , where there be good example of different faith organisation come together . the Archdeacon of West Ham inform I that local church be closely engage with the London Boroughs Faiths Network , and local clergy work alongside local rabbi and imam to build close link . the local faith forum be host a walk of peace in my hon . friend ' s constituency on 1 June , and I hope he will be able to take part . Interfaith work be vital to our local community up and down the country . do the hon . Lady agree that leadership be important and that if the Church of England be to follow the Roman Catholic Church and appoint its leader in day rather than month , it would give a great boost to interfaith work ? Marsha , chair the conclave ! [ laughter . ] if only , Mr Speaker — though I do have the right colour on this morning . the Cardinal for Battersea . oh my goodness ! the hon . member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) make a really important point about the importance of interfaith working , and it happen at all level — we have our local clergy but also faith leader and adviser work across all different faith to bring we together . what happen last summer during the riot be a good example of how interfaith leader work together . National Church Institutions : safeguard what progress the National Church Institutions have make on improve safeguarding . I thank my hon . friend for continue to rightly hold the Church to account on this issue . as he know , in February the General Synod vote to adopt a partially independent safeguarding model that include an external scrutiny body and a commitment to carry out further work to identify the legal and practical challenge of move towards a fully independent safeguarding model . next month I will meet the Safeguarding Minister alongside my constituent and a group of survivor of abuse and safeguarding failure within the Church . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) for the work she have be do to push the case for fully independent safeguarding process . will she continue to impress upon colleague the need for full independence in term of operation and oversight within the Church ? I reiterate that it be really important that member , include my hon . friend , continue to raise this issue and hold the Church to account . the Church be undertake detailed work to look towards seek to go with a fully independent model . in the meantime , the Church be get on with set up the external scrutiny body , which be likely to be on a statutory basis , in order to give it depth and may require legislation . as I have say on many occasion in Church Commissioners question , it be so important that the Church seek to restore and rebuild trust , and that begin with ensure that we have a credible model for safeguarding . I thank the Second Church Estates Commissioner for her response . the church should always be a place for those who seek help , assistance , support and comfort whenever thing have happen that be completely against the teaching of the Bible . for those who carry out these heinous crime , there must be no excuse and no apology ; they must go to court to face the allegation that be make against they , and then when the crime be prove , they must be send to jail . the Church ' s foundation be God and the teaching of the Bible . those who carry out those crime deserve absolutely no help within the Church whatsoever . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . justice must be serve regardless of the institution a crime be commit in . leasehold : value for Money what step the Church Commissioners be take to ensure value for money for leaseholder . the Church Commissioners property team regularly meet and engage with resident association , as part of its programme of support for its tenant , to ensure good value for money for leaseholder . I thank my hon . friend for the time she spend with I and my constituent of the Hyde Park estate to discuss tackle some of the high service charge they be face . do she agree that it be vital that the Government continue to make progress on the regulation of manage agent so that these high cost be clamp down on and there be more accountability for leaseholder ? I commend my hon . friend for all the work she be do on this important issue , which affect many constituency , and it be a pleasure to meet she and member of that resident association . we all know that many manage agent behave in way that be not fit for purpose . it be absolutely right that we need legislation to deal with unscrupulous manage agent , because thing can not continue in the current vein . I thank she for all the work she be do . safeguard what assessment the Church have make of the potential merit of implement an independent safeguarding process . at the General Synod in February , I call for a fully independent model for safeguarding . Synod do not adopt that approach but do commit to undertake some detailed work that would ensure it could work towards that sort of model . as I say early in my response , it be vital that the Church seek to begin to restore and rebuild trust and confidence in it . I thank the hon . Lady for that answer . horribly and tragically , one of my constituent be a victim of abuse in the Church of England . we must never forget that there be victim and survivor involve here , and they be dismay when early this year the Church of England ' s govern body reject a fully independent safeguarding model to deal with abuse case . the Church should not fall behind other organisation on safeguard . the hon . Lady have give I her answer already , but can she reassure I that she will continue to push for a fully independent body , as that must be our goal ? absolutely . I be at that meeting of Synod and it be disappointing that my preferred model of full independence be not adopt . we owe it to those like the hon . Lady ' s constituent , who be a victim and be now a survivor , to ensure that the Church work at pace towards a fully independent model for safeguarding . House of Commons Commission the hon . member for Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney , represent the House of Commons Commission , be ask — " for Women Scotland " Supreme Court Judgment whether the Commission be take step to comply with the Supreme Court judgment in the case of for Women Scotland the Scottish Ministers of 16 April 2025 . the House of Commons Commission be always concerned to comply with the law . the policy and guidance of the House have be review and it do not appear that any immediate change be require as a result of the judgment . however , we be keep this under consideration . we will be look at the update Equality and Human Rights Commission guidance follow its publication in draft just two day ago . I be grateful to the hon . member for his response , but the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have say that we " can and must " uphold the " right , the freedom , the space for woman as sex - base right " . I be therefore extremely concerned to hear report that the House of Commons be not follow the EHRC interim guidance that biological man should not be allow to use woman ' s facility . do the hon . Member agree that the protection of female member and woman who work here be vital , and that the law , as clarify by the Supreme Court ruling , must be follow immediately ? I thank the hon . member for his question and can assure he that official have review the guidance and the policy of the House and consider that the Commission be comply with the law . but we will review the position once the final ehrc guidance be produce . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Church Assets : Historical Link to Slavery whether the commissioner have make an estimate of the proportion of the Church ' s asset that may have a link to historical involvement with slavery . the forensic accounting research publish in 2023 reveal that Queen Anne ' s Bounty be link with african chattel enslavement in two main way : significant investment in the South Sea Company ; and benefaction receive from individual whose income may have derive from slavery . the fund for healing , repair and justice be the Church Commissioners ' response to these finding . my hon . friend will be aware that there be a lot of interest in the relationship between the Church and the slave trade . be she able to say over what period the Church make profit from the slave trade ? be she able to specify the name of the company that the church invest in , or even the name of the slave plantation ? be she able to quantify exactly how much money the Church make over the period when it be involve in the slave trade ? and be she able to say whether the Church ' s profit from the slave trade be still part of its income today ? I thank the Mother of the House for the seven or eight question that she have ask — she will forgive I if I write to she in response to many of those point . to reiterate , the Church receive benefaction from individual who profit from enslavement and invest in the South Sea Company , which be deeply link with the slave trade . the Church Commissioners have be investigate the Church ' s historical link in this area since 2019 , and publish a full and transparent report in January 2023 . I be happy for that document to be share with my right hon . friend and it can be place in the House of Commons Library , if that be helpful . I will write to she , but I be also very happy to meet she , because she show a keen interest in this area . School Teachers ' Review Body : recommendation ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Education if she will make a statement on whether the Government will be accept the school teacher ' review body ' s pay recommendation for 2025 - 26 . may I start by thank our teacher , school leader and school staff for all they be do right now to ensure a successful exam season for student , and indeed for all their hard work throughout the year ? rather than scaremongere with fantasy statistic , the Government be get on and deliver . we be already see positive sign that our plan for change be work . teacher recruitment be up , with 2 , 000 more people in training than last year . teacher retention be up , with thousand more teacher forecast to stay in the profession over the next three year . this Labour Government be get on and deliver . unlike the Opposition , who last year sit on the STRB report , hide from their responsibility and leave it to Labour to sort out , this afternoon we will announce the teacher ' pay award , which will be the early announcement for a decade . we understand the importance of give school certainty , give they time to plan their budget , and ensure that they can recruit and retain the expert teacher our child need . the Secretary of State ' s write ministerial statement will be come out this afternoon — [ interruption . ] it will show once again that this Labour Government — Order . I have grant the urgent question , so please will member on the Opposition Front Bench wait for the Minister to finish her answer . I do not want you , Ms Trott and Mr O ' Brien , to be a bad example of this school class . the write ministerial statement be lay before the House and will be come out this afternoon , show once again that this Labour Government be get on and deliver on our plan for change . I call the shadow Secretary of State . Mr Speaker , this be absolutely outrageous . it be astonishing that we have have to summon the Government to the House today , but the Minister can not even tell we what pay rise teacher will get and whether it be go to be fund . that do not allow we to scrutinise the matter in this House . the Government say that they would tax private school to fund 6 , 500 more teacher , but the reality be that state school have not get any of that money . instead , we have have break promise on compensate school for the job tax , confirmation from the Department for Education itself that there will be a shortfall in teacher pay funding , which we be not allow to discuss here today in this urgent question , and uncertainty as to what the actual pay rise for teacher will be . that be a disgrace , and it be the opposite of what people who vote for Labour expect . all that be in the final two week when headteacher up and down the country have to decide whether to make teacher redundant in time for September — in fact , sadly , many school will already have make the difficult decision to let good teacher go . these be job loss on the Minister ' s watch , due to her inability to provide school with the clarity that they need . do not just take my word for it . Dan Moynihan , from the Harris Federation , say that it propose to make 40 to 45 teacher redundant . Jon Coles , the chief executive of United Learning , which run 90 state sector academy , say that the trust have be leave with £ 10 . 5 million a year of unfunded cost . he say : " it ' s no good Treasury wave their hand and say ' efficiency ' — that would be 400 job loss . sector wide , that would extrapolate to ruinous harm in the one well - function public service : ten of thousand of redundancy . " Simon Pink , the finance director at the Elliot Foundation , which have 36 primary , say : " this be the tough budget … in a generation . " one secondary school headteacher have already have to cut two teaching assistant post and a teacher role due to rise national insurance and anticipate wage rise . what be the pay rise that the Government recommend for teacher ? the Prime Minister ' s spokesman say on 28 April : " there ' ll be no additional funding for pay . " yesterday , the Government start to u - turn on the winter fuel allowance . will the Minister now fully u - turn and fund the national insurance rise and agree to fully fund the pay increase , whatever they be ? neither I nor any Minister in this Government will take lesson from Conservative Members , who , after 14 long year in power , have still not restore real - term spend in our school to the level that they inherit . the brass neck of the opposition be quite extraordinary . conservative Members would also do well to remember the difficult decision that this Government have have to take because of the utter mess that they leave behind . the right hon . Lady be in the Treasury , create the mess — she know very well what happen . recruit , retain and support expert teacher be central to our vision for deliver high and rise standard in our school . despite the challenging financial context and year of miss recruitment target under the previous Government , this Administration be prioritise education and ensure that every child have access to a high - quality teacher . we be work at pace to ensure excellence for every child . that be why we remain committed to our manifesto pledge for 6 , 500 teacher and to ensure that it respond to the demand in secondary school , special school and further education . we know that high - quality teaching be the in - school factor that have the big positive impact on a child ' s outcome , break down barrier to opportunity for every child , so recruit and retain high - quality teacher be clearly absolutely central to our vision for deliver high and rise standard . that be why , despite the challenge financial context and year of miss recruitment target , we be get on and deliver on our plan for change . the right hon . Lady will have to wait , like everybody else , for the statement that she know be come this afternoon . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . teacher pay be absolutely vital for the status of the profession , for the quality of life of teacher and for recruitment and retention of the vital skilled and qualified staff who be the backbone of our education system . it be really important that the Government ' s response this afternoon begin the work of restore teacher pay after the last 14 year , when we see , by any objective measure , a shocking erosion in teacher pay under the previous Government . that have affect recruitment and retention and have a devastating impact on teacher morale . those on the conservative Benches should take note of that , because we would all benefit from a little more humility in the context of the legacy that they leave behind . can I press the Minister on the extent to which the pay award will be fund ? we know that there be already extensive pressure on school budget , and school be very anxious about that matter . also , will this afternoon ' s statement include support staff pay , and will it begin the process of restore that pay ? we know how vital our teaching assistant and other support staff in our school be . I thank my hon . friend for her thoughtful contribution . I find it somewhat disconcert that she be be barrack by Conservative Members , when she perform a really important function for this House and be very assiduous in hold the Government to account — rightly so , as that be her role . she be right to reflect on the degradation of teacher ' pay over the past 14 year ; indeed , the first thing this Government do be get last year ' s STRB recommendation out of the drawer and process it — a recommendation that the last Government hide and , frankly , run away from . we implement the 5 . 5 % pay award . we absolutely recognise that pay be a really important part of ensure we have the high - quality teacher that we need . the start salary for teacher be now at least £ 31 , 650 outside of London and at least £ 38 , 766 in inner London . we be make progress ; we be see the green shoot of more teacher join the profession and stay in it , and we will continue to support that trajectory in any way we can . my hon . friend have also rightly highlight the vital work of support staff in school . the Government ' s approach in that regard will be confirm in this afternoon ' s write ministerial statement , as will all the detail that my hon . friend so keenly anticipate . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . each and every week , I hear from teacher and school leader in my constituency and across the country . in my time in this place , never have their outlook be as gloomy as it be right now . after year of underfunding and neglect from the Conservatives , school now face a double blow of underfunded national insurance increase and unfunded teacher pay rise , if the report be to be believe . together , these represent massive cut to school budget . frankly , school expect well from Labour . school governor in my constituency recently tell I that they be all set deficit budget , which one describe as " beyond imagine " . that be why teacher be so desperately worried . parent be , too , because ultimately it be our child who will suffer — and the most vulnerable , at that . the Government ' s claim that school can find the money through efficiency simply do not stack up ; budget be already cut to the bone , with school rely on parent to buy they the basic , such as glue stick , through Amazon wish list . they be already cut back subject , cancel trip and cut back on teach assistant — mean that child with special educational need and disability will suffer the most — and now they be plan redundancy . budget decision for next year be already be make . we need urgent clarity about whether the pay rise will be fund , so will the Minister tell school across the country where exactly they be expect to find this money ? there be an awful lot of imagining in the hon . Lady ' s question , and understandably so — less understandable , though , in relation to some of her comment . the statement be due today , and the hon . Lady will have to await it , as will all member of this House and those who be keenly look at their school ' budget to ensure they can provide the good education possible . I know that be what school be rightly focus on do , and we be focus on support they to do that . I gently remind Opposition Members that this be the early strb announcement in a decade , because we recognise how important budgeting be for school and how important it be that they have this information in a timely way . that be not respect under the previous Government . we want to provider this information in good time and give notice as early as possible , so that school can plan the excellent outcome for child that I know they be strive for . we will also support they to use their funding as efficiently as possible . the Department have work on a whole suite of productivity initiative , as well as support for school to manage energy cost and banking cost and to minimise any expenditure that be not on the frontline , support child . that be what we will continue to do . I reiterate what the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , say : teaching assistant be the glue that keep our classroom together and they should be pay adequately . I be pleased to hear the Minister state that retention be up , with 2 , 000 more teacher in training . as a former teacher , I understand that workload be often cite as a reason that we do not retain teacher . Marking , lesson planning , admin and data entry all keep teacher away from spend time with their student . can the Minister update we on what work her Department be do with respect to artificial intelligence and its roll - out in our classroom to reduce teacher workload and get they in front of student ? I welcome the constructive nature of my hon . friend ' s question , because regardless of any announcement this afternoon , we know that school be work hard to deliver for child . as a government , we need to work our hard — and we be — to support they to do so . that mean a whole range of productivity measure to support teacher with their workload , to support school with their cost , and to ensure we grab the opportunity of technological development so that any teacher ' s time be maximise with child in the classroom , help they with their learning and be support with technology to maximise child ' s outcome . we will continue to work ; we be very much look forward , and unfortunately those on the Opposition Benches seem constantly to be look back . for the Government to come here today , fulling know their pay rise intention but refuse to say so until this afternoon to avoid scrutiny , be disrespectful to this House , to every Member , to every constituent and to every teacher . if I may say so , it be somewhat cowardly . school across my constituency find themselves short of money to cover national insurance bill . five school in my constituency that have approach I be £ 176 , 000 short between they . do the Minister know how many school be short of money to pay their national insurance bill ? on the hon . Lady ' s initial comment , let I say that there be process and procedure in this House that we respect . we respect this House , and we will continue to do so . there be a process by which this statement and these announcement will be make . she will have to wait , alongside everybody , for the process that we adhere to in this House to be administer . in response to the hon . Lady ' s second question , as she should know , our funding system be not design so that every school and college receive funding that necessarily fully match their precise spending , as that — include NIC cost — vary from institution to institution because of the decision that each school make on staffing . we be provide school and high - need setting with more than £ 930 million in 2025 - 26 to support they with their increase national insurance cost . that be in addition to the £ 2 . 3 billion increase to core school funding announce at the autumn Budget in 2024 . that mean that the core school budget , which include the core revenue funding for school and high - need setting , will total more than £ 64 . 8 billion in 2025 - 26 . we will continue to support school to spend that money in the most effective and productive way possible to maximise outcome for child , which be our priority . I spend most of the last Government ' s time in office scrutinise public spending , and grow weary of promise of pay or other government decision not be match with budget for school , hospital and so on . when thing like change to national insurance and pay increase be make , I hope that this Government will be very honest about the impact on school budget , and not have headline that be not balance with funding . I therefore hope the Minister be make good argument in the spending review . could she make sure that she really lean into the issue of fall roll in London ' s school ? any hope - for pay rise , which be much deserve by teacher , will be a double whammy for school in London , because roll be fall and their income be therefore much low ; that will have an extra impact on staffing decision . I thank my hon . friend for her question , and for the work that she have do in this House over many year in scrutinise Government budget and hold government to account . we have the high respect for school , for school leader , and for the teacher and support staff who work in school . we recognise the challenge face across the public sector to make sure that every penny of public money be spend in the most efficient way possible and maximise the public benefit . we be work incredibly hard in the Department , as I know we be across Government , to get maximum output for public money . frankly , the public sector be neglect by the previous Government over 14 year . we be pick up the piece of that , and we will continue to work hard to do so . I do have some sympathy for the Minister , for whom I have a great deal of respect , but surely she must feel embarrassed to come before this House know all the answer to these question and not give they , simply because no . 10 will not let she . in my constituency , school be already face a double whammy from an increase in cost from the national insurance rise , which be not fully fund , and the pressure on place . if the teacher ' pay settlement be not fund in full , surely she will admit that it amount to a cut . whenever this happen when we be in government , the first thing Labour Members would say be , " be you match it with funding ? " if we be not , they would scream blue murder that it amount to a cut . will she just admit that if it be not fund , it be a cut to school ? the right hon . Gentleman be rather get ahead of himself . he be in the last government , and we be leave with an appalling inheritance . we be take tough decision to fix the foundation and to bring back stability , because education be a priority for this Government . that be why we be rebuild the crumble school that the Conservatives leave . [ interruption . ] fiction ? crumble school ? I suggest Opposition Members speak to the school that be deal with the consequence . we be roll out free breakfast club , open up school - base nursery and , yes , provide £ 8 billion to give every child the good start in life through the high - quality early year and family service that the previous Government promise but provide no money to deliver . while those on the conservative Benches continue to try to work out what they think , we be get on with deliver real , positive change in our country . as the Minister say , we inherit a recruitment and retention crisis in the teaching industry . datum from the National Association of Head Teachers show that one in three teacher leave within five year , and that around one in three headteacher no long continue as a head within five year . that be the situation we have inherit , not create . what be the Minister do to turn the tide on the recruitment and retention crisis ? we do inherit a dire situation . child be not be teach by the expert teacher they should have be teach by , and teacher be stretch to the limit . that be why the first thing we do be to reset the relationship between the Government and school , which for year have resemble some sort of combat . we want to work with school . we recognise how hard they be work to deliver for child , and we want to work with they to support they in any way we can . that mean have high - quality teacher and good - quality teacher training . it mean support every teacher to be train to meet the need of child with special educational need and disability . it mean maximise every pound so that it can get to the frontline — to the child — by reduce other cost in school . we will continue to work with school to do that , so that we can ensure that every child have the expert teacher they deserve and will not be let down any more , as they have be for the last 14 year . I think we would all agree that education be the good investment that any Government can make ; it raise people out of poverty , improve social mobility and improve health outcome . sadly , it be not a priority for the last government , and I welcome the change in tone from the new Government , although I think it will take more than breakfast club to fix the problem . the Devon branch of the National Association of Head Teachers have say , " we ' re on our knee . " primary school be consolidate class because they be have to cut spending , and one secondary school in my patch will have to pay £ 95 , 000 extra for every 1 percentage point rise in pay that be not fund . if the pay award be not fully fund , can the Minister explain exactly where school be suppose to find this extra money ? the hon . Lady be — understandably so , give the calling of this urgent question despite a statement be due imminently — get ahead of herself , and we be do an awful lot more than breakfast club . I have list just some of what we be do , but we be work incredibly hard across the board . school will work very hard to make sure that their budget maximise the outcome for child , and we will continue to support they to do that . that mean have a Department that step up . it do not stand back and criticise ; it step up . it mean support the buying that school do , and make sure they be get the good value for money in all the purchasing they do . it mean support they with their maintenance and management . it mean support they with energy cost . we know that expenditure on energy be a big cost for school , and the Department can provide support with good contract that get much well value for money . it be similar with banking and with teacher vacancy . school can save a significant amount of money use the product available from the Department for Education , which we be continue to provide , and they can use the tool available to see how they be do and also what other school be do well . we will continue to support school to maximise — order . this be like have a second statement . the answer be get long and long , but I have to get through this urgent question as we have a lot of other business . it be important that question be answer quickly , but also that the rest of the question be ask . we will now have a good example of a brief question from Laurence Turner . thank you , Mr Speaker . there have clearly be some learn loss among the Conservatives , because they be late in submit evidence for seven year in a row , cause chaos in school ’ budget ; they announce the outcome of the School Teachers Review Body process through write statement to this House ; and , shamefully , they scrap the school support staff negotiate body . do the Minister agree that the protestation from the opposition will come across to teacher as false and hypocritical , because they be ? I think my hon . friend have put it very well . one of the thing I think we should be proud of in England be the success of english school over the last 10 to 14 year . frankly , the difference in outcome in England from those in labour - run Wales or SNP - run Scotland have be very striking , demonstrate that , while for sure there be brilliant teacher across the United Kingdom , the different system in England have enable its school to flourish . while I welcome the fact that the Minister be bring the statement out early and I appreciate the work the Government have do on it , I be afraid that I do share the frustration of my right hon . friend the Member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) and my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , who be no long in her place . the Minister must appreciate that frustration , give that she be sit on the Opposition Benches only a few month ago , as no doubt she will be again in only a few year ' time . the reality be that it be very difficult to represent those who send we here if we be not give information . I be send a letter by Simon Beamish , who run the Leigh Academies Trust , and he tell I that school in my area of west Kent be already go to have redundancy or be go to make choice base on the unfunded pledge that have be give . will the Minister make a commitment that the next pledge will be fund ? that be a very long question . it be a very long statement that manage almost entirely to look backwards , while fantasise about the future . the right hon . Member will receive the information , as will everybody else , when the statement be publish at the announce time this afternoon . I declare an interest , as I be a primary school governor right up until the election and I be the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for school , learning and assessment . it be quite shocking to hear Opposition Members ' protestation about school funding , give the absolutely dire state in which they leave school funding after 14 year of conservative government . when I speak to school leader in my constituency , they tell I about their real and lasting struggle to balance their budget . I understand that the Minister can not speak today about the outcome of the review until the statement , but can she give we information more broadly about conversation she have have as part of the spending review , so that we can get the funding we need to invest in school and turn around the dire situation we inherit ? I would like to take this opportunity to put on record my thank to school governor . my hon . friend mention that he be a governor up until the election . we really be grateful to school governor for everything they do on a voluntary basis to support school to be as good as they can be . as a Government , we will always work with they and school to support improve outcome for child . the Department will do everything it can within the incredibly tight fiscal constraint we inherit . as a government , we be commit to our public service , which we know will transform the life of child and everybody in this country . we will continue to do that . the Minister , in her response to my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , refer to imagining , but I do not think it be an imagining to suggest that the Secretary of State , in her response to the STRB , say that some efficiency saving would have to be find in school to meet the additional cost . early this week , I have a roundtable with headteacher from my constituency and beyond . the Minister also talk just now about " fantasise about the future " . be she really tell I that those headteacher be fantasise about the future when they tell I that they be already have to make cut to staffing number for next September ? one headteacher tell I that just one or two more thing need to go wrong and that they be on the brink of collapse . be the Minister say that they be fantasise about the future ? no . we recognise how important it be for school to plan their budget and we know that they be keenly await the announcement this afternoon . that be why we have make the announcement as quickly as possible , and much quick than at any point over the past 10 year . we will continue to work with school to help they deliver for the child in their care . we know that that be their priority and it be our priority , too . for 14 year , I see my profession treat like dirt by the conservative party : undervalue , underpaid and undermine at every single turn . do the Minister agree that not only should we be pay our teacher fairly , but we should be treat they with respect , and that the only decent teacher recruitment the Conservative party do be to recruit former teacher to the Labour Benches ? my hon . friend rightly remark on his service as a teacher . it be incredibly value . the one message we want to send to the school system be about the extent to which we value the teacher and the headteacher who support their school to thrive , and the extent to which we support the support staff who be the beat heart of school in every community . we will continue to do so . the school in my constituency tell I that any efficiency they could possibly make have already be make . therefore , the result of what the Minister be announce — the national insurance increase that be underfunde and this welcome but unfunded increase in teacher pay — can only be that teacher number be cut . as the father of a primary school teacher who work really hard and be absolutely committed , that impact on I personally , and it will impact on every child and every parent in my constituency . be that not the reality , and should the Government not be up front and admit that this will mean that teacher will lose their job ? the right hon . Gentleman will have to wait for the statement this afternoon for the detail of what the Government be propose . he really should have more awareness of the situation that teacher and school , and indeed our entire public sector , have face over the past 14 year . we be work hard to clean up that mess , and we will continue to do so . I declare that I be also a school governor . I have spend many month in my constituency meeting teacher , governor and stakeholder within the community , so I welcome the Government ' s announcement of 2 , 000 additional teacher . can the Minister tell we how the Government be turn the tide in the teacher recruitment and retention crisis , which reach unprecedented level over the past decade ? this be a key priority for we . we want to ensure that we have the teaching workforce that child deserve , but that teacher deserve , too — they deserve to have a full fleet of teacher teach the specialist subject that they love , be commit to and be train to teach . we know that key to unlock the outcome for child be have good , qualified teacher in every classroom , which be what we be legislate to achieve . it be also key for child with additional learning need or disability that we ensure that every teacher be a teacher for special educational need and disability , so that more child can be educate in their local school with their peer and get the outcome they deserve . I be a school governor for 13 year and serve as a finance governor , so I know these issue well . I want to draw the Minister ' s attention to the plight of small , rural primary school . there be many such school in my constituency , and they be really up against it with the cost that they face . in the school that I serve , 86 % of the budget be spend on staffing , so a significant unfunded increase in staffing cost , whether through national insurance or salary contribution , have a huge impact . will the Minister meet I to discuss sparsity funding and the equalisation of per capita funding so that primary school in small , rural area be not so serially disadvantaged ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his thoughtful question and for his year of service as a governor . I can not reiterate enough how much we value the work that governor do in school , and we need more people to step up and take the rewarding opportunity to support school in that capacity . he rightly raise the challenge , which we know differ across school , and that be why school funding be not uniform across school ; it vary accord to circumstance . we be look at the funding formula to ensure that it do allocate resource where it be most need and where it can give the great outcome and the great benefit . rather than the synthetic outrage from the former Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , who serve in a government that bring cut to school , I really welcome that the Government be serious about address the regression teacher face in their pay , as well as the fact that support staff be push on to the minimum wage . I trust that in the statement there will be sufficiency in the funding for school , but will the Minister also get a grip of escalate chief executive pay , which be double , mean they have six - figure salary ? it be really important that they be not take more out of the fund that should be invest in child ' s education . my hon . friend speak with great insight ; I know she care passionately about maximise outcome for child . I know that every school leader — indeed , those at any level within a school , but particularly those at the senior level — will want to ensure that in any decision they make on pay , they be prioritise outcome for child . school in my constituency tell I they be struggle . serious pressure be be put on their staffing budget by the national insurance contribution increase , and that be exacerbate by the appallingly slow approval rate of special educational need inclusion funding and education , health and care plan by the now Lib Dem - run Cambridgeshire county council . what be the Minister do to address that extra strain on staffing cost and to ensure that school be properly resource for the right level of staff in order to allow teacher to give all child the good education , rather than force efficiency saving on they that will make the job even hard , and possibly even ultimately put child at risk ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important matter and do so thoughtfully and constructively . although there be synthetic outrage from some member on the conservative Benches , we recognise that school be grapple with the challenge of ensure that they achieve the great outcome from their budget . that be a challenge that they rise to year on year , and a challenge that we will continue to set , because we will not shy away from ensure that every penny of public money that be spend deliver on the frontline for child and teacher . we need to ensure that we have the right teaching capacity in school , and that teacher be train to support child with special educational need . we be determined to ensure that more child be educate with their peer , but we recognise that school need support to deliver that , and we be work on reform at pace . we be also get on with deliver a whole range of intervention to support school in make progress . I have not plan to ask a question , but I have to say that I be pretty surprised by the tone that the opposition strike . I do a postgraduate degree in education , and I will never forget find one of my professional mentor , who have be a teacher for year , cry at her desk because of the pressure that the then Government have put on she and other teacher . be it not the case that the Conservatives leave our teacher overstretch and undervalue , and this Government be take a different approach ? I could not have put it well myself . the Minister have admit that not all school will be fully fund , but blame that on the choice that school have make about their staff . do she accept that school can not fully control the profile of their staff , and that in some case — I make this point in a letter to the Minister — school choose to pay people in high band because of the increasingly high need that they be expect to support ? will she meet I to discuss how she will protect school with particularly high staffing budget from have to make excessive cut ? I be not really sure about the premise of the hon . Lady ' s question , or what she think may or may not have be say ahead of publication of the write ministerial statement , which be due at 1 pm today . I have make it clear that school be fund not in a uniform manner , but accord to a whole range of requirement that they may have within their school population and their area . it be a complex formula that be intend to ensure fairness across the school funding system . indeed , we be look at the system to ensure that it be as fair as it can be , but it be not without its complexity , so we be take the time to get this right . we will continue to do so , because we recognise that school need the autonomy to decide how they spend their budget , how they well deploy their resource , and how they maximise the outcome for child , use the resource allocate by the Government . we also recognise that school need support to do that , and we will continue to ensure that they have the tool to maximise the outcome for child . may I declare my interest as the very proud father of Rosie , a foundation stage teacher ? this Government show what Labour be about when they come in and immediately award an above - inflation 5 . 5 % pay rise to teacher , to start claw back after the demeaning and disrespectful public sector cut of around 20 % in real term deliver by the Tories . the Government ' s 2 . 8 % submission to the pay review body be below inflation , and that increase would not be fund through additional finance ; it would come at the expense of other provision . it have be report that the School Teachers ' Review Body be recommend close to 4 % , so will the Government commit to a long - term plan of restore teacher ' pay in real term , and to address the recruitment and retention crisis in education ? my hon . friend tempt I down all sort of path , in way that would anticipate the statement that be due later today , but he rightly state the importance of ensure that teacher be recognise , value and reward , that we have sufficient teacher , and that we have an attractive profession that bright people like Rosie want to join and contribute to . we will continue to work to deliver that for the child and school in this country . one of the big driver of satisfaction in any profession be settlement in line with inflation and expectation of inflation . will the Minister assure the House that the settlement to be announce later today will take account of the fact that inflation be vastly high than be anticipate when the settlement be reach ? I be afraid that the right hon . Member will have to wait for the statement this afternoon . I appreciate that it be keenly anticipate . we be committed to ensure that school can deliver for child . that be our top priority . I be proud to declare an interest as the son of a teacher . while the Tories often wax lyrical about how business add value to our economy , which of course it do , they often omit to say that it be our teacher who educate those who go on to work in business . teacher add huge value , and teaching should be the most esteemed of profession . can the Minister explain how Labour be overturn the teacher recruitment and retention crisis that we inherit from the Tories ? my hon . friend be right to say that we inherit a teaching profession in crisis . immediately on enter Government , we institute a 5 . 5 % pay award . we continue to help school to find way to support teacher in manage their workload and wellbeing , and in make teach the attractive profession that it should be . as my hon . friend rightly point out , teaching be the springboard to so many bright future for child . we want to ensure excellence for every child , not just some child , as we see over the last 14 year . in Education question , I raise the concern of headteacher in Basildon and Billericay about school funding , and I directly ask about school support staff , who be already be tell that they be be make redundant because of the national insurance job tax . can the Minister explain to those staff and I why the Government have go back on their promise to cover all the cost of the job tax ? as I have already set out , the Government have give a significant settlement in recognition of the national insurance cost . we will continue to work with school to ensure that they can deliver for child in their area , and we will continue to listen to the sector to ensure that we work in partnership to deliver for child — a partnership that be sadly lack in the last 14 year . the right hon . Gentleman be very much part of the Government who deliver the desperate situation in which we find school and teacher , and that we be work very hard to turn around . over the last six month , I have visit most of the school in my constituency , and the message I be get loud and clear be that they be on the brink , especially over special educational need and disability provision . that threaten to throw into sharp reverse any progress on educational standard . I ask the Government to be honest about the real state of funding , and not to make statement that be not fully fund . that apply to statement on exist service , such as SEND provision , and on the cost of school dinner . I hold the new Government to a high standard , and I ask the Minister to be completely honest about the real state of affair . I recognise the challenge that the hon . Gentleman see in the school system . we do , without doubt , inherit a SEND crisis . it be describe by the previous Secretary of State for Education as " lose , lose , lose " , and she be not wrong . we be work at pace to fix it , and we recognise that school be grapple with many challenge . we will continue to work at pace , because that be how we deliver for child in this country , which we be commit to do . order . the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) have just walk right across the Floor of the House while the Minister be answer . I can not believe it . [ interruption . ] we be not go to have an argument . I would have hope that you , as a member of the Panel of Chairs , would respect the rule of the House well . I be full of admiration for all the hard - work teacher across my constituency , and indeed the whole country , and my sister - in - law be a secondary - school english teacher , but I have no doubt that every teacher and headteacher watch our proceeding , either live or later , will have have their jaw on the floor when they hear the Minister say that she want to give they time to plan , but will not tell they what funding they will get to pay for this . it be inconceivable that she do not know the answer to that question , give that a statement on the issue will be publish at 1 o ' clock . be she not give the answer because , as my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) say , no . 10 have tell she not to ? well still , be it because the Department be in a live negotiation — some might say a row — with the Treasury to get that settlement for our teacher ? what a ridiculous question . as the hon . Member have a family member who be a teacher , he should have more respect for the profession and the work that teacher do . he should acknowledge that the time we give school to plan their budget be way beyond anything that his Government deliver in the last 10 year . the Minister and many hon . member have mention teach support staff , who make up half the school workforce but have no statutory pay body to represent they . many support staff be leave without a voice in discussion on their pay , term and working condition ; I hear that time and again in school throughout my constituency . will the Minister give assurance , through the write ministerial statement , that school support staff will get a fair pay deal ? pay negotiation for support staff be do through the National Joint Council for Local Government Services . we recognise the challenge that the hon . Member identify , and the strong role that support staff play in our school . we have legislate for the school support staff negotiate body , which the last Government abolish , to be re - establish , to ensure that they have a strong voice in these conversation . may I raise concern about our further education college teacher ? there be a real shortage of skilled worker in this country , and one of the reason for that be that we have undervalue and under - invest in our FE college teacher , who be pay £ 9 , 000 less than their peer . no wonder 50 % of they leave within the first three year of employment . do the Minister recognise the vital role of FE college teacher in our education system ? will they be in the Government ' s plan for a fair and well future for everybody ? we absolutely recognise , respect and value the vital role of all those who work with 16 to 19 - year - old and people of all age , whether in a school , college or fe setting ; they provide that springboard to launch people into their future career . we will continue to recognise and support the sector . the Minister mention maintenance contract and Department for Education support . school have see steep increase in the cost of sustain themselves . one school leader in Devon whom I speak with say that the cost of maintain ground , bin and toilet grow by 69 % over the last four year . give that school ' budget have barely grow over that period , do she really expect that staff pay rise will come out of exist school budget ? the hon . Gentleman tempt I into issue that may well be address in the statement that be due very shortly . he recognise that school have a whole range of cost to manage . as a Department , we want to maximise every penny that school have , and to minimise outlay that do not reach child or the frontline — those who work with child . we will continue to do that . there be a whole range of tool available at the Department . we really encourage school to use those tool in any way they can in the management of their budget , and to support really smart accounting to maximise the impact of their budget for their child . I thank the Minister for her answer to the urgent question . nobody can doubt her commitment to the change that be necessary to keep school work and teacher in place . I always try to be helpful in the Chamber . Northern Ireland have come through a period of teacher strike action , which lead to year of no school inspection , and to alter classroom practice , so there be a need to re - engage with teacher . the Minister know well that engage with teacher at all stage be essential , or the loser will undoubtedly be the parent and , of course , the pupil . how will she ensure a spirit of co - operation to ensure in - depth education ? we all hope that co - operation will be reciprocate by union and senior leadership team in all school . the hon . Gentleman be always helpful and thoughtful in his contribution . as a Department , we inherit a school system that be in crisis : school building crumble , teacher leave in their drove and child not get the start in life that they deserve . we be work on a number of front , but we recognise that the outcome be not one that the Government alone can deliver ; we need to deliver they in partnership with school , teacher and those who represent they . we speak and work regularly right across the board to maximise those outcome for child , and I know the hon . Gentleman share our determination to see that across the country . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . be it relevant to this UQ ? it be , Mr Speaker . early , the Minister say that funding have remain below 2010 level . I be sure that be an innocent verbal slip . however , accord to the widely respect Institute for Fiscal Studies , " come on the back of an 11 % real - term increase in spending per pupil between 2019 – 20 and 2024 – 25 , this allow spending per pupil to return to , and exceed , its previous high point in 2010 . " how can we encourage the rapid correction of the record when innocent mistake be make ? I think you have just correct the record ; that be not a point of order . we can leave it at that , unless the Minister want to come in . indicate dissent . Independent Sentencing Review with your permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on sentencing in England and Wales . as the House will be aware , the independent sentencing review be publish today . it be chair by David Gauke and his panel comprise expert , include a former Lord Chief Justice , and representative from the police , prison , probation and victim ' right organisation . the Government be grateful for the review ' s recommendation , and I will ensure that a copy be deposit in the Libraries of both Houses . today , I will set out our in - principle response . first , however , it be essential that we set the review in its proper context . a year ago today , the conservative party call an election . they do so because they be confront by the prospect of prison about to collapse . rather than confront their failure , they choose to hide it and hoodwink the public into re - elect they . it do not work , but their legacy live on . our prison be , once again , run out of space and it be vital that the implication be understand . if our prison collapse , court be force to suspend trial , the police must halt their arrest , crime go unpunished , criminal run amok and chaos reign . we face the breakdown of law and order in this country . it be shameful that , in this day and age , we be confront by this crisis once more . the reason be clear . the last Government add just 500 place to our prison estate , while at the same time , sentence length rise . as a result , the prison population be now rise by 3 , 000 each year and we be head back towards zero capacity . it now fall to this Government to end this cycle of crisis . that start by build prison . since take office , we have open 2 , 400 place . last week , I announce an additional £ 4 . 7 billion for prison building , put we on track to hit 14 , 000 place by 2031 , in the large expansion since the victorian era . that investment be necessary , but not sufficient . we can not build our way out of this crisis . despite build as quickly as we can , demand for place will outstrip supply by 9 , 500 in early 2028 , and that be why I commission the sentencing review . its task be clear : this country must never run out of prison place again . there must always be space for dangerous offender . at the same time , the review be task with address the fact that our prison too often create well criminal , not well citizen . instead of cut crime , they be breed ground for it . the reviewer have follow the evidence and example of country across the world . today I present an initial response , with further detail to follow once legislation be place before the House . let I start with the report ' s central recommendation : the move to a three - part sentence call the earn progression model , which the Government accept in principle . under the model , an offender will not necessarily leave prison at an automatic point . instead , their release date will be determine by their behaviour . if they follow prison rule , they will earn early release ; if they do not , they will be lock up for long . that echo the model I witness in Texas early this year , which cut crime and bring their prison population under control . under the new model , offender serve standard determinate sentence with an automatic release of 40 % or 50 % will now earn their release . the early possible release will be one third , with additional day add for bad behaviour . the review suggest a new maximum of 50 % , but for those who behave excessively badly , I will not place an upper limit . for those currently serve standard determinate sentence with an automatic release point of 67 % , their early possible release will be 50 % . again , for those who behave excessively badly , I will not place an upper limit . David Gauke also suggest that those serve extend determinate sentence should also earn an early release . this we will not accept . judge give extended sentence to those they consider dangerous , with no Parole Board hearing until two third of time serve , and I will not change that . I can also confirm that no sentence be serve for terror offence will be eligible for early release from prison . in the second part of the progression model , offender will enter a period of intensive supervision . that will see more offender tag and close management from probation . the Government will therefore significantly increase funding : by the final year of the spending review period , an annual £ 1 . 6 billion will rise by up to £ 700 million , allow we to tag and monitor ten of thousand more offender . if offender do not comply with the condition of their release , the sentencing review have suggest that recall to prison should be cap at 56 day . we have agree to this policy in principle , though the precise detail will be place before the House when we legislate . in the final stage of the three - part sentence , offender could still be recall if a new offence be commit , and I will also ensure that the most serious offender continue to be subject to strict condition . the review also recommend a reduction in short prison sentence . a compelling case for do so have be propose in this House many time . in the most recent datum , nearly 60 % of those receive a 12 - month sentence reoffende within a year . with reoffende rate for community punishment consistently lower , we must ask ourselves whether alternative form of punishment would make the public safe . it be important , however , to note that the review recommend a reduction in short sentence , not abolition . it be right that judge retain the discretion to hand they down in exceptional circumstance . in consider exceptional circumstance , we will continue to ensure that court have access to thorough risk assessment for domestic abuse and stalking case , and breach of protective order link to violence against woman and girl will be exclude . the review also recommend an extension of suspend sentence from two to three year . in this period , the prospect of prison time hang over an offender should they break any condition impose upon they , and we accept that recommendation . the recommendation set out above will see more community punishment . for that reason , it be essential that it work . the review recommend a series of measure to make community punishment tough and force offender to pay back to those they have harm . we will consider new financial penalty , which could see offender ’ asset seize , even if they be not knowingly link to crime , and expand use of punishment such as travel and drive ban that would curtail offender ' liberty . we accept a recommendation to expand intensive supervision court . those impose tough condition , include treatment requirement , that tackle the root cause of prolific offending . offender be bring before a judge regularly to monitor compliance , and the prospect of prison hang over they like the sword of Damocles . however , I believe community punishment must be tough still . Unpaid work must pay back , so I will shortly bring together business leader to explore a model whereby offender work for they , and the salary be pay not to the offender but towards the good of victim . I will also work with local authority to determine how unpaid work team could give back to their community , whether by fill pothole or clean up rubbish . I invite David Gauke to consider cohort of offender who this Government believe require particular focus . I welcome his recommendation on female offender . approximately two third of female offender receive short sentence . around the same number be victim of domestic abuser . I be pleased to say that the review ' s recommendation on short , defer and suspend sentence will reduce the number of woman in prison . I ask David Gauke to consider how we tackle foreign national offender . today , our deportation rate be ahead of the last Government ' s . I welcome the recommendation to make it quick and easy to deport foreign criminal . under the exist scheme , they be send back to their country of origin after serve 50 % of the custodial sentence . we will bring that down to 30 % . we will also conduct further work with the Home Office on how we can deport foreign prisoner serve less than three year as soon as possible after their sentencing . I also ask the review to consider how we manage sex offender . the review have recommend we continue a pilot of so - call medication to manage problematic sexual arousal . I will go far , with a national roll - out begin in two region , cover 20 prison . I be explore whether mandate the approach be possible . of course , it be vital that this approach be take alongside psychological intervention that target other cause of offending , such as assert power and control . when discuss sentencing , it be too easy to focus on how we punish offender when we should talk more about victim . everything I be announce today be in pursuit of a justice system that serve victim . if our prison collapse , it be victim who pay the price . by cut reoffende , we will have few victim in future , but there be more we must do to support victim today . the review recommend a number of important measure , include well identify domestic abuser at sentencing , so that we can monitor and manage they more effectively . I pay tribute to those who have campaign on this , particularly the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) . I also welcome the recommendation to expand the use of specialist domestic abuse court , where train staff support victim . to improve transparency in the system , we will extend a pilot of free sentencing transcript for victim of rape and serious sexual offence . I want to go far than the review recommend to well support victim . exclusion zone be an important tool , prevent offender from enter area their victim might be in , but these place great limit on victim than on offender . I want to change that , lock offender down to specific location so that victim know they be safe wherever else they want to go . this review set out major reform . I know its recommendation will not be welcome by all . by appoint David Gauke , a former Conservative Lord Chancellor , I hope to show that two politician from different tradition can agree on the reform our justice system require . I do not expect Conservative member to join I to solve this crisis . in fact , I can hear their soundbite already . " just build fast , " they will say . well , we be build fast than they do : we have already add 2 , 400 place , and we be now invest £ 4 . 7 billion more . " just deport more foreign criminal , " they will say . well , we be ahead of where they be , and today we have accept major reform to go far and fast . " clear the court backlog , " they will say despite have create it themselves . well , we be invest more in our court than they ever do , and we be ready to embrace once - in - a - generation reform to deliver swifter justice for victim . while we be do more on each of these area than they ever do , these be not solution that rise to the scale of the crisis that they leave behind . we must build prison on an historic scale , deport foreign national offender fast than ever , and speed up our court ; and yet still , despite all that , we must reform sentencing too . so , more in hope than expectation , and despite , not because of , experience , by appeal to the well angel of their nature — if they have any — I end by invite those opposite to help we fix the crisis that they leave behind . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Lord Chancellor . today be about one question : should violent and prolific criminal be on the street or behind bar ? I think they should be behind bar . for all the Justice Secretary ' s rhetoric , the substance of her statement could not be clear : she be okay and her party be okay with criminal terrorise our street and torment our country . the truth be this : any government — [ interruption . ] order . I think people have come to listen to the statement and I expect they to listen . I expect the Opposition Front Bench to be quiet ; I certainly expect well from the Government Front Bench . Mr Speaker , the truth be this : any Government serious about keep violent criminal behind bar , any Government willing to do whatever it take , could obviously find and build the prison cell require to negate the need for these disastrous change . what do the change amount to ? [ interruption . ] order . Mr Swallow , you be get very excited . you be tell I how good a schoolteacher you be ; this be a very bad example of that . what do these change amount to ? they be a " get out of jail free " card for dangerous criminal . have the Justice Secretary even go through a court list recently ? pick one from anywhere in our country : those currently go to jail for 12 month or less be not angel . they be Adam Gregory in Calne , who get 12 month for sexually assault his partner ; Vinnie Nolan , who get 12 month for break someone ' s jaw ; Shaun Yardley , 10 month for beat his partner ; or Paul Morris , who get six and a half month for shoplift 36 time . her plan be to let precisely these criminal loose . it be a recipe for a crime wave . what about the Justice Secretary ' s plan for most criminal go to jail to serve just one third of their prison sentence there and for her slashing of sentence across the board — discount so big they would make Aldi and Lidl blush ? I would call it a joke if the consequence for the public be not so terrifying . in fact it get bad , because criminal who plead guilty — and most do — already get a third cut in their sentence , so under her scheme a burglar who plead guilty to an 18 - month headline term would spend just one fifth of that term in jail — barely 11 week . eleven week for smash through a family ' s door and storm through a child ' s bedroom look for valuable , leave they traumatise for life . be that the Justice Secretary ' s idea of justice for victim ? the least she could do be here and now guarantee that violent criminal , domestic abuser , stalker and sexual assaulter will not be eligible for any discount in their sentence . will she commit to that ? if not prison , what be the plan to punish these criminal and to keep the public safe ? well , the Justice Secretary say it be digital prison — as she put it , prison outside of prison , word that lead most people in this country to conclude that the Justice Secretary be out of her mind . I be all for technology but tag be not iron bar — they can not stop your child be stab on their walk home from school , or a shop be ransack time and again , or a domestic abuser return to their victim ' s front door . order . I do not think that " out of her mind " be language that should be use . I be sure the shadow Secretary of State would like to reflect on that . of course , Mr Speaker . the Ministry of Justice ' s own pilot scheme find that 71 % of tag offender breach their curfew . when it come to stop reoffende , tag be about as useful as smoke alarm be at put out bonfire . what be the Justice Secretary go to say when she meet the victim of offender that she let off ? how be she go to look they in the eye and say with a straight face , " I ' m sorry — we be look into how this criminal escape from their digital prison cell . " her reform be a recipe for carnage . I urge the Justice Secretary to change course and to make different choice — yes , choice — from the one that we know the Government would make from the day that the Prime Minister hand - pick Lord Timpson as Minister of State for Prisons , Probation and Reducing Reoffending , a man who be on record as say that " a lot of people in prison … shouldn ' t be there " — two third of they in fact , he say — " and they be there for far too long " . the Labour party be clearly ideologically oppose to prison and that be why the Government be let criminal off with a " get out of jail free " card , rather than deport the 10 , 800 foreign national offender in our prison — one in every eight cell — a figure that be rise under the Justice Secretary ' s watch . if she be actually serious about keep violent criminal off our street and find the cell that be need , will she bring forward legislation , tomorrow , and disapply the Human Rights Act 1998 , which be stop we from swiftly deport foreign national offender ? some 17 , 800 prisoner be on remand await trial — another figure that have rise under the Justice Secretary . in fact , her own Department ' s figure forecast that it could rise to as many as 23 , 600 . if she be serious , will she commit to take up the Lady Chief Justice ' s request for extra court sit day to hear those case and free up prison space ? will she commit , here and now , to build more than the meagre 250 rapid deployment cell her prison capacity strategy say she be plan to build this year ? they have be build in seven month before , and they can be build even fast . if the Justice Secretary be serious , she would commit to strike deal with the 14 european country with spare prison capacity , rent their cell from they at an affordable price , as Denmark be do with Kosovo . between 1993 and 1996 , her beloved Texas , the state on which she model these reform — a state that , by the way , have an incarceration rate five time high than that of the United Kingdom — build 75 , 000 extra cell . if the Government be serious , why can they not build 10 , 000 over a similar time period ? labour be not serious about keep hyper - prolific offender behind bar . in fact , there be nothing in the Justice Secretary ' s statement on lock they up or cut crime , because the Labour party do not believe in punish criminal and it do not really believe in prison . the radical , terrible change make today be cloak in necessity , but their root be Labour ' s ideology . it be the public who will be pay the price for her weakness . the shadow Secretary of State talk about serious government — if the Government that he be a part of have ever be serious , they would have build more than 500 prison place in 14 year in office — [ interruption . ] he be a new convert to the prison - building cause . he and his party have never stand up in this Chamber and apologise for add only 500 place — order . I want the same respect from member on the Opposition Front Bench . [ interruption . ] do we understand each other ? indicate assent . Mr Speaker , if I be wait for respect from Opposition Members , I would be wait for a long time , so it be a good job that I do not need it . the shadow Secretary of State talk about " iron bar " , but he be part of a government that do not build the prison place that this country need . unlike he , I take responsibility , and it have fall to I to clean up the mess that he and his party leave behind . in case there be any confusion , let I spell out what happen when he and his party leave our prison system on the brink of collapse , which be exactly what they do , and set out the prospect that face I on day one , when I walk into the Justice Department . when prison be on the verge of collapse , we basically have only two choice leave at our disposal : either we shut the front door , or we have to open the back door . the right hon . Gentleman ' s party know that that be the situation it be confront with , but do it make any decision ? no , it just decide to call an election instead and do a runner . the public put the Conservatives in their current position . if they ever want to get out of that position , I suggest that they start by reckon with the reality of their own track record in office . in any other reality , they should have start already with an apology . conservative Members have have many chance to apologise to the country for leave our prison on the point of absolute collapse , but they have never take they . frankly , that tell we everything that anyone need to know about the modern Conservative party . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . I welcome the report and the Government ' s response . it be a comprehensive and measured response to the prison crisis , as one would expect from David Gauke , in contrast with the hysterical nonsense that we have hear from the opposition today . I particularly welcome the additional resource for probation and electronic monitoring to enable robust punishment and control in the community as an alternative to custody , but even the aggregate effect of the measure in the report will only stabilise the prison population over the long term . do my right hon . friend agree that we also need effective rehabilitation to end the cycle of reoffende if we be to see a fall in historically high prison number ? let I be clear : we will be add prison place to the estate , and we will be fill they up . the prison population will rise year on year by the end of this Parliament , but my hon . friend be right that the measure we have announce today stabilise the prison population . as a whole country , we will have to do well at ensure that our prison be churn out well citizen , rather than well criminal . when we know that 80 % of offender be reoffender , there be clearly much work to be do in this area . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I start by say that it be an absolute honour to be able to share with my mum , who be a survivor of domestic abuse at the hand of a former partner , that campaigning fuel by our harrowing experience at home all those year ago , and the experience of many other survivor across the country , have contribute to the Government heed our call to well identify domestic abuse in the criminal justice system . the increase visibility and the intervention that it will inform to patch up what be an outrageous gap in the system stand to protect victim and survivor across the country , and I sincerely thank the Government for listen to we . my party and I will hold the Government to account on the implementation , and we would like to get clarity on the record that the new identifier will mean that the Government can be empower to exclude domestic abuser from , for example , an SDS40 early release scheme , and that partner use Clare ' s law will see offence flag as domestic abuse in the light of the report . it must be say that it be absolutely appalling that the shadow Justice Secretary have just try to play politic with domestic abuser . I do not want to let criminal out early — you do . the right hon . Gentleman say that this Government want to let domestic abuser out early . he fail to remember that the end - of - custody supervise licence scheme under the Conservative Government from October to June last year release 10 , 083 offender early , with no exclusion for domestic abuser . do the Secretary of State agree it be critical that this Government provide more support for domestic abuse victim from the like of their abuser in a way that the last Government fail to do on their watch ? I thank the hon . member for his remark . I would accept nothing less than hold we fully to account for these change , and I look forward to work collaboratively where possible on these measure as we move forward . I pay tribute to he , his family and his mum for the campaigning that they have do on the identification of case arise from domestic abuse be flag properly within our justice system . the new identifier will develop over time , and I be sure that it will inform future policy decision make by government of all stripe , but it be an important starting point . we be very happy to accept the recommendation , and we will move at pace to ensure that we deliver it . case under Clare ' s law will be cover by the new measure . as for more support for victim of domestic abuse , we be very keen to take forward the review ' s recommendation on the specialist court , because we think they will have a particularly important role to play . as I say in my statement , we will ensure that the measure relate to the presumption against short sentence contain an exclusion for breach of order , which we know be a matter of particular concern for victim of domestic abuse . I will engage with member across the House on where we can make further progress . before I put my question to my right hon . friend , may I give the shadow Justice Secretary a reality check ? under the previous Government , 98 % of report rape case go completely unpunished . under the Conservative Government , rape be effectively legalised , so a little bit of humility would not go amiss . one in five adult in this country will experience domestic abuse in their lifetime . could my right hon . friend please explain how domestic abuse victim will be protect under these new measure ? I will repeat the point I have make to the hon . member for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) . we know that there be a particular concern about what the presumption against short sentence might have mean for breach of protective order , and we know that issue be of real concern for domestic abuse victim . we want to ensure that those order be not render useless because those who breach they be not see any prison time at all . the specific circumstance surround this type of violence against woman need a very specific response , which be why we have already say that we will make that exclusion , and I will work with member across the House to identify where we can make further progress . I welcome what the Secretary of State have say about female offender , but I would like to know a little bit more . Hope Street in Hampshire , which offer residential alternative to custody for woman , have see remarkable result , and of course it prevent those woman from be separate from their child , which would otherwise drive the intergenerational cycle of offend behaviour , trauma and cost to society . do these proposal include any plan to set up more such facility across the rest of the country ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . the combination of the measure that we be accept from the review will mean that we will see a huge reduction in the number of woman go to prison . approximately two third go in for sentence of less than one year and , as the hon . Lady know , many of those woman be themselves victim of domestic abuse . in future , we expect the number to drop very significantly , and I know we will make progress in that regard . I have set out an ambition to see few woman prisoner and , ultimately , to have few woman ' s prison . turn to residential alternative to custody , the hon . Lady will know that I have set up the Women ' s Justice Board . it be well represent , include by those who have personal experience of Hope Street , and we will work with the Women ' s Justice Board as we roll out further change to the female estate . despite what the shadow Justice Secretary have say about this scheme put domestic abuser and rapist out on the street , can the Justice Secretary cut through the rhetoric and fearmongere from the opposition and be clear that she have put the victim of sexual and domestic abuse at the heart of these measure ? can she confirm that they will be protect , and that those abuser and perpetrator will not benefit from the early release scheme ? all dangerous offender — those who receive an extended determinate sentence , include some of the serious offender to which my hon . friend have refer — will be exclude from this scheme . all other offender receive a standard determinate sentence will be within the earn progression model , but they will have to earn an early release . that be why we be ensure that there be an uplift in probation funding , to ensure that all those individual be intensively supervise in the middle stage of their sentence . the bad thing that could happen for every type of victim in this country , and in fact for every citizen , would be for we to run out of prison place altogether . we be in this position because of the mess that the previous Government leave behind , and it fall to we to fix it . notwithstanding the predictable nonsense from the shadow Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , it be critical that we focus on the need of the victim . I welcome the Lord Chancellor make that point in her statement , but we need more than fine word . can she please commit to give all victim of crime proper access to restorative justice ? restorative justice have an important role to play in our justice system , so where it be appropriate and where it can make a difference , we will ensure that it be available . but I want to ensure that victim of crime have other confidence - induce measure at their disposal , which be why I want to look at exclusion zone in particular , and it be why we want to do the domestic abuse identifi , so that we can track system , learn from the case that be go through and make well policy for victim . I be amazed by the gall of the Conservatives , who leave our prison in utter crisis , fail victim . I thank the Lord Chancellor for her work . five year ago , my constituent Diane have her world change when her husband be kill by a driver who be on her phone . not only do the driver do that , but the first call the driver make be not to 999 , but to her sister . when the driver be release from prison , she will have a four - year driving ban , but Diane and her family have have their life devastate forever . can the Minister set out that , as we take this necessary action to fix our burst prison system , we will make use of lengthy restriction and lifetime driving ban for those who cause death by dangerous driving ? I be sorry to hear of the case of my hon . friend ' s constituent ; those be truly horrible circumstance for any family to find themselves in . I can assure she that we will be rigorously pursue the recommendation in the Gauke review relate to ancillary order , which be other order that we can make that curtail an offender ' s liberty , include lengthy driving ban , which I be consider bring forward . public confidence in the criminal justice system — and , importantly , the confidence of victim — be paramount . since 2010 , the use of community - base order have decrease by 61 % . that be in no small part because of concern about offender engagement in the process . if the Government be go to pursue this route , what step have the Lord Chancellor take to model how many will reoffend and , more importantly , that they will be rigorously reinforce ? that issue be why already today I have announce measure to toughen up community punishment , and we will be go far in some area than even the review recommend . I absolutely agree that community punishment have to maintain the confidence of the public . like all other member , I be a constituency Member of Parliament , and I want my constituent to be able to see community punishment as real punishment . it be on we to make sure that it be worthy of that name . that be why I be consider go far on unpaid work , work with business to see whether salary could be pay into a victim fund . that might be one model . I want to see offender fill pothole and clean our street , and I will be work with local authority to ensure that we go as far as we can , but I assure the hon . Gentleman that this Government be commit to toughen up community punishment and make sure that it maintain the confidence of the public . I be grateful to the Lord Chancellor for her statement and for commission the sentencing review . do she agree that this Government be now take action , whereas this time last year , rather than sort out the prison crisis — when we have few than 90 space , with a prison population of 90 , 000 — the Conservatives call a general election instead ? do she also agree that the present proposal will ensure that dangerous offender will be lock up and will enable we to rehabilitate other and stop reoffende , which cost we £ 22 billion a year ? my hon . friend be right . this time last year , the Conservatives have a chance to put the country first . instead , they call an election and try to put themselves first . they do a runner on the job , and it fall to we to clean up their mess . this government will clean up their mess , and we will get our prison system on to a sustainable footing so that there be always a prison place . there will be more prison place under this government , and we will make sure that there be always a prison place for the most dangerous offender . that be why we be take all the other measure that we need to take to ensure that we never run out of prison place again . respect for justice be diminish by the fiction of the judge announce a sentence and those in the know then calculate on the back of a fag packet the fraction that it actually represent . have this statement not reinforce that system with bell on ? I be sorry to have to break it to the right hon . Gentleman , but he will be horrify to discover that he agree with David Gauke on this one . the independent reviewer have point out that transparency will be paramount to maintain confidence in the justice system , and we will make sure that we take the transparency measure forward . with the National Police Chiefs ' Council have declare violence against woman and girl a national emergency , it be right that we explore radical method to bring down the scale of offend in our community . we know that most sexual offending be not about sex at all , but about power . however , for the subset of convict whose offending be drive by sexual compulsion , chemical castration could be an option . be there estimate datum on how many future offence that could prevent ? by definition , it would only be for those who have already offend . as I be not aware of a method of permanent chemical castration , be there capacity in the Probation Service to monitor ongoing compliance with treatment ? study show a 60 % reduction in offending . my hon . friend be right to say that , for one subset of offender , offend relate to power . for another subset of offender , we believe that a combination of chemical suppressant and psychological intervention can have a big and positive impact . a pilot have be trundle along for many year , and nobody have show much interest in it , include any of my predecessor — Tory Justice Secretaries just let it carry on . I be not willing to do that , and I be not squeamish about take further measure . we be go to have a national roll - out of this programme , and I will ensure that be what happen . I be expand it to two further region , include for prisoner in 20 further prison , so that we can build the evidence base and make sure that we be use every tool at our disposal to cut reoffende . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to extend the pilot scheme to give free sentencing transcript for rape and serious sexual offence — something for which I have long campaign . I be sorry that the Victims Minister , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , have just leave the Chamber , because I want to pay tribute to she for all her work on this issue . I also pay tribute to the victim , survivor and campaigner , and particularly my own constituent Juliana Terlizzi , for their bravery and advocacy on this issue . I look forward to continue to work with the Minister on this issue . can the Lord Chancellor tell we what measure will be take to ensure that victim know about the scheme , and that they understand their right to request a transcript of the sentencing remark ? I know that the pilot have show how much that contribute to their recovery and their welfare after sentencing . I pay tribute to the hon . Lady for her work in this area , and I will pass on her remark to the Victims Minister . I also pay tribute to her constituent . it be very difficult to raise these issue and talk about they openly , and her constituent have show real bravery in come forward and explain why the scheme would have make a difference to her own recovery . I be very pleased to extend the pilot scheme . we will learn the lesson about how the first pilot scheme work in the first year , and if we need to do more on publicise what the scheme can do and its availability , we will do so . the hon . Lady will know that I want to make further progress on use AI technology to make transcript more widely available , because I believe in a transparent justice system . I do not believe that we be very far away from have tech that be accurate enough to be a matter of court record , but we be not quite there yet . it be something we continue to work on . in my 21 year as a Crown prosecutor , I prosecute many , many case , but I prosecute far few individual . that be because 80 % of offender be reoffender , so I see the same defendant time and again . the current system do not work . do the Lord Chancellor agree that the new approach will reduce reoffende , cut crime and lead to few victim ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to remind the House that 80 % of offender in our country be reoffender , which tell we that our system be break . it tell we that our prison be create well criminal , not well citizen , and this be something we absolutely have to turn around if we be to protect victim and cut crime . the Lord Chancellor will know that for a very long time in this country , the prejudice of the establishment , poison by liberal thinking , have be at odd with the preoccupation of the vast majority of law - abide people . will she acknowledge now that the principal purpose of prison be retributive ? it have other purpose , too , but its principal purpose be punishment . in that spirit , will she confirm when she will bring forward the further legislation on sentencing that she promise ? give what she have announce today , will she also confirm that violent sexual offender will be exclude from early release ? I have no truck with anyone else ' s prejudice and they certainly do not decide what I do in office . I believe in prison . this government be go to build more prison place , and we will fill they . I believe in prison for the reason of punishment , primarily ; I agree with the right hon . gentleman on that . I will not let this country run out of prison place , because I know what will happen if we do . I be not willing to put anyone through the breakdown of law and order in our country — I be not willing to take that risk . it mean that hard choice be in front of I and this House as we get ourselves out of this crisis , and I be make those choice today . I will work at pace to bring forward legislation at the early opportunity , so that the House can consider the proposal in full . those on extended determinate sentence — the most dangerous offender , as judge by a judge in a court — will be exclude from these measure . for all other offender , early release will have to be earn , and there will be intensive supervision afterwards . that be the earn progression model , and I be sure we will debate it at length in the week and month ahead . there be no place in our country for foreign offender who pose a serious risk to the public . this government be already return more foreign national offender than the Conservatives do when they be in power . do the Minister agree that the Tories be clearly all talk and no action ? my hon . friend put it very well , and he be absolutely right . we have make more progress on the deportation of foreign national offender than the previous Government and we will go far . we accept the review ' s recommendation on reduce the threshold for early removal from 50 % to 30 % . for offender who get less than three year in prison , we will work with the Home Office on proposal to move to immediate deportation . the national average reoffending rate for people who have do a short - term sentence be 54 % . among those who graduate from a prisoner rehabilitation programme in my constituency , the average reoffende rate be just 6 % — and the programme be still in touch with every single graduate , after operate for 10 year . in the spirit of try to reduce the prison population , do the Lord Chancellor agree that such rehabilitation programme be absolutely crucial and that invest in rehabilitation not only keep people safe in the community because it reduce the reoffende rate , but help the mission to free up prison place for the dangerous criminal who absolutely need to be there ? the hon . Lady make a good point . I pay tribute to the work that be go on in her constituency . as I have say before , 80 % of offender in this country be reoffender . that tell we how break our system be , and how imperative it be that we sort it out . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . reoffende be cost we £ 22 billion a year , and 80 % of offender be reoffender . do my right hon . friend agree that we need to bring that figure down ? what be she intend to do to prevent people from reoffende at such high rate ? one of the problem of run a prison system at absolutely boil hot — where it be permanently on the point of collapse , as have be the case in our prison system for far too long now — be that we be not able to make much progress in the prison estate on the programme that offender need to access to begin a rehabilitation journey . part of our proposal , which be design to relieve the stress in our prison system , will help with rehabilitation within the prison estate . we be also absolutely determined to make more progress on rehabilitation outside the prison estate , which be why we be toughen up community punishment . we know that that work , and we know that the country can have confidence in such punishment . we will be work with our colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to think about the availability of drug and alcohol treatment . we will expand the use of sobriety tag , which be already help offender to come off the drink that often fuel their offending . I have ask some tech company to look at far technological innovation that can help we in this space . the holy grail would be a drug tag , which could make a huge difference in reduce reoffende in our country . we will continue to press ahead and work as quickly as we can to find further technological solution . crime against child be among the bad crime humanity can commit . there be relatively little , if anything at all , about offence against child in this review . could the Lord Chancellor confirm that those who have abuse child will not be allow out early ? all those who have receive an extended determinate sentence — and that include many of the offender mention by the hon . Lady — be exclude from these measure . all other offender would have to earn an early release by prove that they have behave properly in prison and not break prison rule ; the minimum for they be set at one third of the sentence , but it can be high . as I have say , for those who egregiously offend , we will set no upper limit . we hear this morning that probation service in Nottinghamshire have be rate inadequate follow visit by inspector . they have be judge as understaffed , with urgent improvement need . I therefore welcome the £ 700 million increase for probation service , but can I ask the Lord Chancellor what other step can be take to drive up probation standard in constituency like mine ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise issue relate to the Probation Service . we have already expand the number of staff . last year , we recruit 1 , 000 extra , and this year we be on track to hit our target of 1 , 300 extra staff . increase resource — first and foremost with more staff — be a clear priority for we . we be invest in technology to help the Probation Service to be more productive . we have already fund programme and pilot on AI tech design to decrease the amount of file work that probation officer have to do to allow they to have more time to do the thing that only a human can do : to spend time with the offender in front of they , to come up with a proper plan to reduce their reoffending and therefore to keep the public safe . I very much welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s statement , and I know that victim and survivor of domestic abuse and sexual violence in my constituency will do so as well . I thank she and her ministerial colleague for their cross - party working , include with my hon . friend the Members for Eastbourne ( Josh Babarinde ) and for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) . on the domestic abuse recommendation and the application of domestic abuse at sentencing , will the Lord Chancellor consider whether it be possible to tag those offence retrospectively , as well as at sentencing ? also , I welcome her remark about transcript and transparency . in the light of the pilot on transcript for sexual violence and rape case , will she consider include in that pilot the entire transcript , not just the transcript of sentencing ? on tag retrospectively , I will certainly go away and have a look at that point . I suspect , although I do not want to mislead the hon . member or the House , that a retrospective trawl of all case — include common assault , which be where we see most domestic abuse case land for a charge and a criminal case — may be beyond where we can get with the datum available to we and the time it would take . however , go forward we will try to capture exactly those case — not only domestic abuse - connect offence , but other offence such as common assault , which we know have take place in a domestic abuse context — so that they be all flagged and proper datum be keep . on transcript , sentencing remark be currently available for other victim , such as in murder case and so on , and that will be extend to victim of rape and serious sexual violence . to repeat a point I make early , I believe in a transparent justice system . I would like to be in the position of use AI technology to make not just sentence remark available . we be think about make broadly what happen in court and such transcript more widely available . what inhibit we be cost , and we be try to take out that cost by look at AI model , but we can not proceed with anything unless we be absolutely certain about its accuracy because , as I be sure the hon . member appreciate , a document purport to be a record of what be say in court need to be bang on . I welcome the fact that this Government be get on with build the large prison expansion programme since the Victorians . that be a Labour Government in action , fix the Tory prison crisis once and for all . can I ask the Secretary of State to learn from the SNP Scottish Government ' s abject failure with the new Barlinnie prison project in Glasgow ? it have be delay again , and now will not be ready until 2028 , which be nine year late . the cost have soar from £ 100 million to a staggering £ 1 billion for one prison . will we learn lesson from the SNP failure ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . let I tell he that we have already learn the lesson of the Tory party ' s failure , and I be very sorry to hear about the situation he describe in Scotland . the Conservatives ' failure on prison building stem from two thing : they could not get it past their own Back Benchers , so the planning delay add billion to the cost of prison place expansion ; and they do not make certain and available the amount need to stimulate funding at the rate require . we have reverse both those thing : we have make £ 4 . 7 billion available and we have make it very clear that planning will not get in the way of prison building . several year ago , when I be a magistrate in Westminster and my father be a magistrate in north Wiltshire , we lament a great deal about the fact that when we put people in prison , we find that there be a whole list of antecedent every time and that this recur all the time . could the Secretary of State tell the House what assurance she can give we about prison education , rehabilitation programme and regular work programme so that we avoid the pattern of prescribing — with good intention — solution that do not work , cost a lot of money and leave the public pretty dissatisfied with the justice system ? I pay tribute to the right hon . member , his father and magistrate all over our country . they do an incredibly valuable job of keep our justice system go . in fact , magistrate deal with 90 % of all criminal case . the right hon . Member be refer to prolific offending : the people who keep come back , cycle in and out of the system . the review recommend that we switch to a model of intensive supervision court , where a judge be in charge of make sure that a treatment programme be adhere to . we will take that forward , and I will set out more proposal when we bring forward the legislation . the early pilot — which , in fairness , be start under the previous Government — have show very positive progress in help those offender to turn their life around and break the cycle of addiction or mental health problem that often lead to prolific offending . we will build on that work . what do the Secretary of State make of the extraordinary admission by the former Lord Chancellor last year that the previous Government choose not to take action on the prison crisis because " you have to win vote " ? fortunately , the Conservatives do not win any vote in Margate , Broadstairs and Ramsgate , which be why I stand here today to say that neighbourhood in East Thanet be blight by drug dealing , theft , burglary , sex trafficking and antisocial behaviour , which ebb and flow accord to whether the main criminal , organiser , pimp , co - ordinator and dealer be in or out of prison , cause mayhem . do she agree with I that the shortage of prison cell , because of the conservative party , and the lack of alternative punishment , because of the conservative party , have contribute to that situation , which blight the life of those in our community ? my hon . friend make an incredibly powerful point and she be absolutely right . when we have a prison system on the point of collapse , it be not as if the criminal do not know that that be happen . that be why it be imperative that we get our system under control and ensure there be always a prison place available for those who have to be lock up to keep the public safe . her point about win vote show the approach take by the previous government : they put themselves first , not the country first . on behalf of the justice union parliamentary group , I welcome the independent review ' s recognition of probation officer and join the call from the National Association of Probation Officers for extra direct investment in staff now . stable accommodation on release be also key to offender rehabilitation . there be presently no approve premise for woman in Wales and woman centre struggle for funding , so how will the Justice Secretary improve rehabilitation and life chance for Welsh woman in the criminal justice system ? I very much hope that the position for Welsh woman will be the same as for woman in England , which be that we see a huge reduction in the number of woman in Wales and England enter the female prison estate . that be because the combination of the measure David Gauke recommend , in particular on short sentence , will mean that few woman go to prison . I will , of course , work with colleague across Wales to look at what more we can do on accommodation provision . I know that there be no specific centre in Wales — the right hon . Lady and I have discuss that previously . it be a promise make by the previous Government without any funding attach to it , so I be not able to make decision when I first come into office that could reverse that , but we will work with the Women ' s Justice Board and other to ensure that the offer for woman who be now no long go to prison be still strong and help they on their rehabilitation journey . this be a day of shame for the conservative party . one of their own have lay bare the scale of its failure , leave we with nowhere to put the prisoner . conservative use to call themselves the party of law and order . take it from this former police inspector : they lose that label long ago and they be never get it back . move forward , the criminal justice system be just that — a system . decision take on policing , court , probation and prison all affect one another , so will the Lord Chancellor assure I that the implication for police and the enforcement of sentence be be take into account when we roll out the change ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : it be a day of shame for the Conservative party . I be sorry to see that the attitude of Conservative Members today be shameless . he make a very important point on police . I have have a good conversation with police leader . I be determined to use the national Criminal Justice Board to ensure that every part of the criminal justice system be align and that we take into account all the interaction — base on this review , and on the upcoming criminal court review — and think about the impact they have not just on the bit of the justice system I be directly responsible for , but on the wide criminal justice system , include police as a whole . may I first say to the Lord Chancellor that I have huge personal respect for she ? I may disagree with some — some , by the way , not all — of what she have announce today , but I would like to put that on the record . she mention female offending . she will know that there be six mother and baby unit in female prison in England . there be 90 application for the last period we know about , up to March 2024 , with 64 place for mother and 70 place for baby , allow for twin . clearly , there be not enough place . have she consider as part of this review , when there be not serious and violent offending by female prisoner , get more of those mother and baby into the community , rather than have they in prison ? let I thank the right hon . gentleman for his remark of personal respect , which be share across this House . I thank he for that and for the important issue he raise . I hope to move to a position where the combined impact of the change in the review and the work we be do with the Women ' s Justice Board mean that we see a huge drop in the number of female prisoner . I be particularly keen to ensure that pregnant woman and mother of young child be not anywhere near our female prison estate in future . of course , for serious offender we will always need to make sure that prison be an option , but the vast majority of woman go to prison on short sentence for much less serious offence and we need to turn that around . under the last Conservative Government , the number of foreign criminal in our prison rise to the ten of thousand , shamefully . will the Lord Chancellor outline for my constituent what we be do to deport those foreign criminal from our prison as quickly as possible to free up vital prison space ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be deport at a fast rate than the previous Government . we have accept the review ' s recommendation to drop the threshold for early removal from this country from 50 % of the custodial sentence to 30 % . we will urgently work up a plan , with the Home Office , for those who be sentence to less than three year to be deport as quickly as possible after sentencing . in her statement , the Lord Chancellor say that under her earn progression plan , if offender follow prison rule they will win early release . the review say that thousand of offender will benefit from that . can she explain to my constituent why simply follow the rule mean that serious offender will serve only a third of their sentence ? where be the punishment and where be victim ' interest in that approach ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the track record of his party in government be to run prison boil hot , with violence off the chart . the shadow Justice Secretary have be show a huge amount of concern for prison officer and the violence they face in our prison . I would have hope that the conservative party might welcome some incentivisation in our prison system to make sure we can run safe prison and keep our prison officer safe . make sure that people follow the rule , and that that be how they can earn an early release , mean that those who break the rule will serve long in prison . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement and her razor - like focus on fix the broken justice and prison system this Government inherit . may I welcome the £ 700 million to help rebuild probation service and ask a question on rehabilitation and make community punishment pay ? I think many people in my constituency will welcome a focus on community punishment be use to do job such as fix pothole and rebuild service that be need locally . equally , I want community punishment to pay by break the cycle of reoffende . can she tell we more about how this programme will get business and apprenticeship into prison , and give young offender a way out of that cycle , so that we stop they be in prison for a second and third time ? my hon . friend raise a really important point . this be why the Government have already roll out employment work council , where prison link up with employer in their region and try to make sure that there be job and training available for offender on leave prison . we know that the ability to work be a really important part of drive down reoffende . that be a priority for this Government . of course , unpaid work be a very visible way for offender to make reparation to the community they have harm . in our eye , that be the primary focus of it , but the discipline of do that work can help offender who be far away from the world of work to get close to it . the Government ' s plan lie out an expectation that they will be able to manage ex - offender in the community under intensive supervision . a probation officer in my constituency recently tell I that she be tell off by her boss for spend too long with offender when she be book just 15 - minute appointment . can the Lord Chancellor tell I when the promise investment will actually reach frontline probation service , and can she guarantee it will be enough to ensure public safety and reduce reoffende ? let I reassure the hon . Lady that this be a huge uplift in funding for probation . it be a £ 1 . 6 billion budget as it stand , and it will increase by up to £ 700 million by the end of the spending review period . we have already invest in pilot AI and other technology design to improve productivity , where AI can complete much of the paperwork that a lot of probation officer spend far too much of their time on , often repeat the same information in different document . that show huge promise . we will roll that out at pace to give probation officer more time with the offender in front of they , do the thing that only a human can do , which be to get to grip with what be drive that offender ' s behaviour and have a plan to tackle it , include by access treatment programme and other thing in the community . we be determined to make sure that the Probation Service can rise to the scale of the challenge . the funding will help with that , as will our investment in that technology . rise — order . we have a number of member still to get in , so can hon . member remember to keep their question and answer short ? location and curfew restriction use electronic tagging to stop hyper - prolific offender go anywhere near a place where they could reoffend ; a requirement to engage in mental health , drug and alcohol treatment , include the use of sobriety tag to address the cause of criminality ; put offender back to work clean up the community they have harm ; chemical castration for sex offender ; the speeding up of foreign deportation ; and the large prison expansion ever — do the Lord Chancellor agree that this be about put victim and the public first ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . this Government be determined to clean up the mess leave by the previous Conservative Government and to put victim first , cut crime and make our community safe . under the yoke of the SNP , Scotland already have a presumption against short sentence , and now the new scottish commission look at sentencing and penal policy have be accuse of be pack with activist determine to keep criminal out of jail . why be the Lord Chancellor in Westminster follow this lead and fail to put victim at the heart of the justice system ? what absolute rubbish , I be sorry to say . I be not take any lesson from the hon . Gentleman or the SNP . this be a programme for England and Wales , for which I be directly responsible , and we be go to make it work . when a previous Government fail to take responsibility for the crisis they have cause , they deserve a life sentence on the Opposition Benches . I welcome the construction of a new wing at Ranby prison in my constituency by Worksop - base Laing o ' Rourke , a specialist in modern method of construction that be involve in many other construction project across the country . if the Minister be seek more site for new prison , could I propose the Crown - own land across the road from HMP Ranby ? we would very much welcome a new prison there . I shall take my hon . friend ' s early bid for further building in her constituency under advisement immediately . under these proposal , foreign criminal will be deport after serve 30 % of their sentence , which I appreciate be an improvement . the public want they to be deport right away — do the Lord Chancellor ? the review recommend immediate deportation — mean " as quickly as possible " , because we still have to detain people before we can get they on a plane and back to their country of origin — for sentence of under three year . we be go to work up proposal on that with the Home Office . for more serious offender with sentence of over three year , we be go to bring the threshold down from 50 % to 30 % . I thank the Lord Chancellor for her statement today , which be a sensible response to the overincarceration and prison place crisis . can she assure my constituent that notwithstanding these change , under - report and under - prosecute crime , such as violence against woman and girl , will continue to be prioritise by this Government ? this government will make sure we be run a prison system that be sustainable and not on the point of collapse , so that we can ensure that dangerous offender in this country be still lock up . we will make progress on our broad mission to halve the level of violence against woman and girl over 10 year . I welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s statement and the work that David Gauke have do to inform everything that be happen today . as a member of the Justice Committee , I look forward to see he before we shortly . I seek clarity on what the Lord Chancellor refer to as the " so - call medication to manage problematic sexual arousal " . will she place the available research and conclusion in the Library so that we all have access to the information and can understand the datum on which she and David Gauke have rely ? I be happy to ensure that the evidence be available . I would say to the hon . Lady that the very small - scale pilot that I inherit have be run for some time without anybody pay a huge amount of attention to it , and the evidence from other jurisdiction where it have be roll out a bit more widely be strong . our roll - out — I want to get to a national roll - out — will start with two extra region and 20 more prison , and we will build the evidence base there . we want measure that work , and I do believe that the combination of chemical suppressant and psychological intervention can help with a cohort of particularly difficult sex offender . in the last four year of the previous Conservative Government , the number of foreign national offender increase . now , call I old - fashioned , but I believe that non - UK citizen who commit crime within the UK should not serve their sentence here . today ' s report make good progress , and I welcome the Lord Chancellor ' s tackle this issue urgently ; it be what South Norfolk want to see , and it will get capacity back in our prison . my hon . friend be absolutely right : we be already deport more foreign national offender than the previous Government . we be take forward the measure from the Gauke review to speed up and get more foreign offender out of our system and back to their country of origin . I wholeheartedly support my hon . friend the Member for Mid Bedfordshire ( Blake Stephenson ) in his call for the immediate deportation of foreign criminal . what be the Lord Chancellor do to ensure that the court be not hold up those deportation , and that once deport , those criminal be never allow back on these shore ? the hon . Gentleman may have see that just last week , when the Home Secretary set out the immigration White Paper , we announce that we be review the use of article 8 in relation to immigration case , and we will bring forward our proposal on that in due course . we will not allow the misuse of our court and the use of article 8 to enable people who have no right to be in this country to stay in this country . that will require change to the immigration rule , which the Home Secretary be work on . do the Lord Chancellor agree that the voluntary and community sector can play a vital role in support offender to rehabilitate and gain vital employment and housing ? organisation such as Pathways Care Farm and Access Community Trust in my constituency have help to prevent t reoffende . I pay tribute to the organisation in my hon . friend ' s constituency ; such voluntary organisation play a hugely important role in help the justice system to succeed in rehabilitate offender . we will continue to work closely and build on the review ' s recommendation in this area . have sit on the Public Accounts Committee inquiry into prison overcrowding , I know full well the issue at hand and who to blame . can the Lord Chancellor assure I and my constituent that they will not be place in more danger by the Government not jail criminal ? when those individual be in the community , the local community must have a voice in the effectiveness and planning of these new sentence , lest we end up with community concern similar to those about bail hostel in Tiverton and Minehead . what put the whole country at risk , include current , future and potential victim of crime , be let our prison system collapse , and I will never let that happen . the measure we be take forward from the review today be design to make sure that this country never run out of prison place ever again . I will ensure that there be ample time for debate and discussion across this House as we bring our legislation forward . be the Lord Chancellor as astound as I be by the hypocrisy of the Conservatives ? they really be the arsonist attack the firefighter . we be have to clean up their mess , because , in the word of the National Audit Office , this crisis be the result of their failure " to ensure that the number of prison place be align with criminal justice " priority . after some month in this job face the shadow Ministers , I be afraid that nothing about their behaviour surprise I any more . I will take notice — as , I think , will the country — when the conservative finally offer an apology for the absolute abject mess they leave behind . Police officer , magistrate and judge all report that some offender would rather go to prison to be back with their mate , watch Sky tv and have three square meal a day . do the Lord Chancellor agree that those who go to prison should be treat more harshly and robustly than be the case under the 14 year of the previous Conservative Government ? we want to make sure that our prison be use to punish offender , that those offender be make to abide by strict prison rule , that they engage with programme in prison to bring down their propensity to reoffend , and that , ultimately , we succeed in keep my hon . friend ' s constituent safe by turn out well citizen rather than well criminal . there be thousand of decent , moderate conservative all across the country who will have see the ridiculous spectacle today of the Opposition denigrate David Gauke — of all people — on the prison system . the review be absolutely clear that short sentence be drive reoffende — 60 % reoffend within the year . will the Minister set out the step that she will take to cut crime and create few victim ? my hon . friend be right . we have to cut crime , have few victim and make sure that our street be safe . that be why we have to make sure that we never run out of prison place , that we never see the breakdown in law and order that would ensue be that to happen , and that we take forward a package of measure that I have announce today . we work on the legislation in the come week and month , which will be design to make sure that we do not run out of prison place , that we put victim first , and that we cut crime in this country . I call Tristan Osborne for the last question on this statement . leave the good until last , Madam Deputy Speaker . as a former police officer , I can say that community payback work . do the Lord Chancellor agree with I and many of my colleague in the criminal justice system that rehabilitation of offender , include fill pothole and clearing fly tipping , be popular , not only in Chatham and Aylesford but in Newark and across the country ? my hon . friend make an incredibly important point . I be determined that we toughen community punishment and make sure that unpaid work truly pay back to the community that have be harm by crime . that be why I work with business and local authority , so we can all have a system that drive down reoffende — a system where reparation be make to the community that have be harm by crime , whether they be in Newark , Birmingham Ladywood or indeed anywhere else . that conclude the statement . business of the House with permission , I should like to make a statement about the business for the week commence 2 June . Monday 2 June — Second reading of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill [ Lords ] . Tuesday 3 June — consideration of Lords amendment to the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill , follow by , if necessary , consideration of a Lords message , follow by a general debate on dementia care . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee , in unallotted time . Wednesday 4 June — remain stage of the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill [ Lords ] . Thursday 5 June — debate on a motion on high street banking closure and banking hub , follow by a debate on a motion on safety regulation in the construction and planning of battery energy storage site . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 6 June — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 9 June 2025 will include : Monday 9 June — remain stage of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , day one . Tuesday 10 June — remain stage of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , day two . I call the shadow Minister . it be an honour to be respond to business question as we march on to the recess . I know that the Leader of the House have have a challenging few week , but I want to start by thank she for everything that she have do to advocate for member in this House . this morning , we have learn that the Government have be prevent from sign their Chagos surrender deal by the High Court . when will the Prime Minister come to the House to explain this late humiliation and masterclass in how not to negotiate in Britain ' s interest ? I know that member across the House often say thing in the Chamber and elsewhere that they regret . I know , too , that the Leader of the House have say that she regret her word on rape gang , but it be for the victim of those rape gang to decide whether those regret be enough . it be time for the government finally to take action on this scandal . will she grant a debate , in Government time , on the rape gang scandal , and commit the Government to the national inquiry that the victim deserve ? at the previous business question , I call on the Leader of the House to ask the Chancellor to u - turn on her disastrous economic policy . since then , thing have get even bad . this week , inflation , which stand at 2 % when Labour take office , have surge to 3 . 5 % . today , public sector net borrowing hit £ 20 . 2 billion , the fourth high figure for the month since record begin . we have have a disastrous Budget follow by an emergency one , and it look like the next one could be catastrophic . it seem that the Deputy Prime Minister have also have enough of the Chancellor ' s economic policy . the difference be that we on the Conservative Benches want the tax raid on business and household to be reverse , but the Deputy Prime Minister want more tax and more spend . yesterday , the Prime Minister would not rule out more tax rise either . I think that we can all see what be come : £ 40 billion of tax rise last autumn be never go to be enough for this government — a Government who be tough with the vulnerable , but weak with the union . the Deputy Prime Minister may be on leadership manoeuvre , but it be quite a shopping list of new taxis that she be after — although , curiously , further taxis on second home be not include . it be the people who save hard for their retirement and build business who be next in the firing line for the tax - raid obsession of this Labour Government . to pensioner , farmer and business owner we can now add saver to the list of people whom this Government seem determined to make poor . will the Leader of the House grant a debate , in Government time , on the Government ' s economic plan , so that the Deputy Prime Minister can also come and set out her tax plan for the House . I would be very interested to see the tag - team operation there . if the Deputy Prime Minister be otherwise engage , perhaps we could turn our attention to yesterday ' s welcome u - turn from the Prime Minister . I understand that he have always be gift with the most flexible of principle , but it be quite a sight yesterday to see he admit to promise a u - turn on punishing pensioner without any date for that u - turn , or an explanation of whether it would benefit all or just some pensioner . crucially , we do not hear an apology from he . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the winter fuel payment u - turn , so that the Chancellor , or the Prime Minister , can come to this House and apologise to pensioner and set out when they will give pensioner the certainty that they can heat their home next winter ? let I conclude — [ hon . member : " More ! " ] ah , thank you . we be watch the Government in a slow - motion car crash , with no economic plan but to tax and spend as fast as they can . it be not the gingerbread man ; it be tax , tax as fast as they can . we be watch a Prime Minister who be have to undo the decision of his own Government in the space of just month but who can not bring himself to apologise . the Government be already show that they have fail to learn the lesson of all socialist government : they eventually run out of everyone else ' s money . this Government seem determined to run out in record time , and the only loser will be the british people . first of all , I congratulate Tottenham Hotspur and Crystal Palace football club on both win silverware for the first time in a long time . north and south London celebrate , while both side of Manchester commiserate . the hon . Lady ask about an important subject . I can say now that the injunction have be lift that , with the permission of Mr Speaker , the Defence Secretary will make a statement later today — probably at the end of business — on the future of the Diego Garcia military base follow those development . I know that the whole House will want to send a very clear message that we condemn the brutal murder of the israeli embassy staff in Washington overnight . we stand firmly together against antisemitism . today also mark the eighth anniversary of the Manchester Arena attack in my constituency . I be sure that the thought of the whole House will be with the family of those affect . I also want to put on record my reflection of the determination of Figen Murray and her campaign for Martyn ' s law . I be really proud that it be this Labour Government and our Prime Minister who keep the promise to Figen to introduce Martyn ' s law , which be now an Act of Parliament . today also mark a year since the general election be call — in the rain , which I think we all remember . let we be honest , the rain be still pour on the Conservatives . they do not seem to have learn very much . they might have think on that day that thing could not get any bad , but they be . I want to say to the hon . Lady that I very much respect she and enjoy work with she on the Modernisation Committee and across the House . I thank she for yet again step in at short notice to cover for the shadow Leader of the House , who be perform other parliamentary function , but I be sure we will see he back soon . the hon . Lady ask about groom gang . I want to be absolutely clear that this government — myself include — want the victim and survivor to be at the heart of everything that we do . we want their terrible experience to be act on , and we want those responsible to be bring to justice . that be exactly what we be do . we will leave no stone unturned in secure justice for the victim . first and foremost , they want action to be take and the many recommendation of the previous national inquiry to be implement , and we be do that . in addition , Louise Casey ' s full audit of these matter will be bring to this House in very short order . the hon . Lady raise several issue relate to the economy , but it be worth remind the House what we inherit and what we have have to deal with since we come into office . the Conservatives do not want to talk about it , but we have to fix the gape hole that their party leave in the public finance . pay deal be on desk but be unfunded . billion of pound on asylum hotel be not account for . all the reserve be go in July of the financial year , and new hospital be nothing more than a work of fiction . we have to come in , fix the economy and get economic stability back . those who pay the heavy price when the economy crash and when market lose confidence be those on fix income , such as pensioner and the poor in society . it be also the value of people ' s pension that fall . we have act on the £ 22 billion black hole , and we have get the economy go again . the Conservatives do not like to hear it , but fix the economy be exactly what we be do . growth be up . interest rate have be cut four time since the general election . half a million more people have move into work since the election , and the UK be now the fast grow european economy in the G7 . real wage have go up for the first time in a decade , after the Conservatives leave living standard fall for the first time in our history . we be fix the mess that they leave behind . the hon . Lady ask about winter fuel payment . as the Prime Minister make clear yesterday , now that the economy be show sign of recovery , because of the action we have take , we want to look at the threshold . first and foremost , we want to make sure that people feel the benefit of that economic growth and have more money in their pocket , and that include pension as well . however , we will not be make spending commitment without say where the money be come from , and it be right that those decision be make in a future fiscal event , as the Prime Minister say yesterday . a year on from that rainy day on Downing Street , it could not be clear : the Conservatives be have an existential identity crisis . a year on from their bad defeat , they be still go backwards . they do not know who they be any more . they do not know what they stand for any more , and they do not know what they be even do . they once proudly stand for free trade , and now they be against any trade deal . they use to claim to be the party of business , but in oppose our agreement with the EU , they be set themselves against the Federation of Small Businesses , the Confederation of British Industry , the British Chambers of Commerce , ukhospitality and the Food and Drink Federation . the Conservatives be once for level up and reindustrialisation of the north , but now they be against new energy infrastructure and the job of the future . they be once compassionate conservative who support the NHS — I remember that very famously — but now they oppose the much - need funding it be get . a year on from that rainy day at Downing Street , they have not learn a thing , nor have they say sorry for the mess they leave behind — whether that be the economy or prison , which we hear about in the early statement . it be down to this Labour Government to clear up the mess that they leave , fix the economy and public service , boost people ' s living standard , cut immigration and get waiting list down . I associate myself with the comment from the Leader of the House repudiating antisemitism . in South Elmsall in my constituency , there be a clay pit that have be work for 14 year , four year after the licence expire . last year , an enforcement notice be take out by the Environment Agency , and now we be hear of multiple breach of the licence , but nothing have be do yet to close the operation down . can we have a debate in Government time on the enforcement power of the Environment Agency in order that I can express my wish that immediate action now take place to protect that community ? I be really sorry to hear about the situation in my hon . friend ' s constituency , where he do great work on behalf of his constituent , and that enforcement action be not be take where it should be . I will ensure that the relevant Minister have hear his question today and that the Environment Agency take the action that it should be take . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . yesterday it be reveal by the charity Tommy ' s and Sands that , tragically , delay in improvement to NHS maternity care be cost the life of hundred of baby a year . this follow the Care Quality Commission ' s finding that 65 % of maternity unit be not sufficiently safe , put woman and baby under threat . will the Leader of the House grant Government time to debate the crisis unfolding in our maternity unit , the failure to implement the immediate and essential action in the ockenden review , and the Government ' s decision to end the ringfencing of £ 100 million for vital improvement to maternity care ? I thank the hon . Lady for that question . as a mother myself , I pay tribute to the amazing work that midwive and our maternity service do , and I be sure that many other member from across the House do too . I be sure we all remember every midwife involve when we give birth . she be right that , after the parlous state that our maternity service be leave in by the previous Government , we need to learn lesson and ensure that our maternity service be fit for purpose and have the funding that they need . we must also ensure that we take on board all the experience of those who have use the service and the many inquiry , include the ockenden inquiry . that be what the Health Secretary be do . he will come to this House to provide an update after he have consider all the finding and conversation . the hon . Lady speak of ringfencing , but I assure she that the funding level for maternity service have not go down at all since the election . over the last few day , the Welsh Rugby Union have announce plan to introduce a disproportionate funding formula that will disadvantage both the Ospreys and the Scarlets rugby union team . will the Leader of the House ask colleague at the Department for Culture , Media and Sport to add their voice to a group of cross - party Welsh mp who be ask the WRU to find a way to protect and support all four equally important regional Welsh rugby team ? my hon . friend be a great champion for Welsh rugby who raise these issue with I regularly in these session . I be sorry to hear about the new funding arrangement . I be sure that the Welsh Rugby Union have hear her question and will respond and take action . I will ensure that a Minister get in touch with she . I call Martin Vickers , on behalf of the Backbench Business Committee . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Chairman send his apology to you and the House . I know that he will be pleased to hear the Leader of the House ' s comment about Tottenham Hotspur . in addition to the business already announce , the Committee agree at its meeting early this week to another Select Committee statement on Thursday 5 June , which will be from the Justice Committee . it also agree on debate in the Chamber on 19 June on incontinence and on Windrush Day . we also accept debate for Westminster Hall on hydrogen power aviation , the role of carer , education in improve social mobility , and Down syndrome regression disorder . I remind hon . member that application form for the main estimate day debate , which we anticipate in late June , be now available on the Backbench Business Committee website . we be swamp with general application , which be good news in one sense , but I urge hon . member to get their application in as quickly as possible , particularly if they be look for a Chamber debate , as we have enough on the waiting list to fill the Chamber until November . last week , I be privileged to meet some teenager from the Teenage Cancer Trust who be in Parliament have submit a letter to the Department of Health and Social Care . they be remarkable young people who have clearly have an awful experience with cancer at an early age . may I gently suggest to the Leader of the House that she might like to allocate some Government time for a debate on that subject ? I thank the hon . gentleman for step in for the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , who I understand be still out celebrate in Bilbao ; he might eventually make his way back when he have finish . we look forward to see he after the recess . I pay tribute to the hon . gentleman for all the work he do in business question and elsewhere in raise issue from his area as well as British Steel in Scunthorpe . the hon . Gentleman raise the really important issue of teenage cancer . many of we have meet young people who be live with and get treatment for cancer . I know that the Secretary of State be particularly commit to these issue , and I be sure that he will be update the House regularly . on Tuesday , those who be infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal protest in Whitehall and hand in letter to no . 10 . they be angry that they have be exclude from oversee the compensation process and that , as a consequence , the process be very slow . the Government promise a debate in Government time on the contaminated blood scandal . may I ask my right hon . friend whether we be we likely to get that debate this side of the summer recess ? I thank my hon . friend once again for raise these important matter , which he do consistently and regularly . he know that the Government be commit to pay comprehensive compensation to the infected and affect in the infected blood scandal , and we be work at pace to ensure that compensation be pay out . we be also committed to a debate . we have a statement to the House last week , and I will ensure that a debate , as promise , be forthcoming . I have be work with resident of Meadowcroft retirement home in Bushey who have suffer repeat failure by Anchor home , which culminate this week in resident be unable to get an ambulance to the facility because of a faulty key box . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on the exploitation of vulnerable resident by such company ? I be really sorry to hear of that shocking incident . as the right hon . Gentleman know , Anchor have a responsibility to ensure that care and ambulance can get in . it be important that we ensure that our care home be operate to the high standard , that they have the good people work there , and that all the resident can be safe and care for . I be sure that would be a popular topic for debate . since the creation of the role of the National Security Adviser in 2010 , every incumbent have come before the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy — until this Government . the Leader of the House will understand how accountability to this place be the cornerstone of our democracy , and a failure of the NSA to meet the Committee would set a dangerous precedent for future government to avoid parliamentary scrutiny , so will she use her position as a representative of this House in Government to ensure that the NSA be hold to account and appear before the Committee ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the matter with I directly as well as with the Leader of the House of Lords . I will respond to he properly shortly . we take accountability very seriously indeed . I will ensure that the Committee be update on the Government ' s work to protect UK national security and that relevant people can appear before the Committee to be scrutinise . rise — Order . I hope to end business question at about 2 o ' clock , so will member please help each other out by keep question and answer short ? follow the outcome of the UK - EU summit early this week , will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on the state of british democracy ? on 23 June 2016 , 70 % of my constituent in Romford vote to leave the European Union — as do the rest of the United Kingdom — yet this so - call EU reset be in fact a surrender of our hard - win Brexit freedom , with rule take from Brussels once again , the European Court of Justice back in charge , british fish hand over until 2038 , and billion in payment back to the European Union . will she please let the british people ' s view be paramount , not the short - term view of the Government ? what people vote for in the referendum be to leave the European Union but retain many benefit of trade and co - operation , which the hon . member ' s Government fail to negotiate in the aftermath of that referendum . this Government have bring they about . he can not have it both way . one of the promise that his Government make be that leave the EU mean we could do lot of free trade deal with other country . that be what this Government have deliver , with a unique and unprecedented trade deal with India and a trade deal with the US . we can not have surrender ourselves to the EU if we be get those trade deal and secure those benefit at the same time . the hon . Member will know that , in fact , since we leave the EU we have have to adopt all the EU ' s standard and regulation in order to continue trade with it , but we have have absolutely no benefit from do that . now we have those free trade benefit as well as do that . I be sorry to say that our deal be far well than the deal that his Government get . on Saturday , my constituent Vimal Pandya receive the freedom of Bermondsey at Southwark cathedral for his exceptional work run Rotherhithe Community Kitchen , which feed hundred of people weekly . for his equally exceptional work during the covid lockdown , he be recognise by her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II . however , he have recently be detain by the Home Office . may we have a debate in Government time to ensure that Home Office exceptional circumstance criterion recognise truly exceptional people such as Vimal and the amazing contribution that they make to community such as mine ? my hon . friend be aware that I can not comment on individual case , but I will ensure that a Minister give he a reply on his case . in this House , we regularly discuss issue relate to immigration and visa , and I will ensure that there be ample opportunity to do so in future . I chair the all - party parliamentary group on digital community . at our meeting on Tuesday , we hear from industry executive that the share rural network have be roll out well ahead of schedule . however , I be afraid that my constituent have notice no discernible difference to their mobile signal on the ground . may we have a debate in Government time to discuss what a decent mobile signal look like for rural area and how on earth we will deliver it ? mobile blackspot be a real challenge for many of our constituent , so I thank the hon . Lady for raise these issue . I will ensure that she receive a full response , but I know that any time anyone apply for a debate on such issue , it be very well subscribe . the Leader of the House may be aware that cheerleading be one of the fast - grow sport in the UK , and that it achieve the remarkable feat of keep young girl engage in sport at an age when so many disengage from school sport . she might not know , however , that two of the good cheerleading team in the country be in Gosport . in fact , both Storm Athletics and Jessie Leigh Dance and Cheer Academy come back from the world summit in Florida early this month with gold medal and first - place trophy . I would love to see many more young people get involve in the sport , which have now be recognise as such by Sport England , but fund to support more disadvantaged youngster to get involve can not be apply for yet . will the Leader of the House lead the cheer for cheerleading as a debate here in Parliament ? [ interruption . ] I do not have my pom - pom with I , but the hon . Lady raise an important matter , and I be glad that cheerleading have be recognise as a sport because , as she say , particularly for young woman and girl , it be a great way to keep active and to stay involved in sport . I also congratulate her constituent on their gold medal and on all that they be do for cheerlead the sport into the future . to mark NABMA ' s " love your local Market " campaign , I want to express my support for Leigh market in my constituency . it be a vibrant hub of creativity , entrepreneurship and community spirit , and this Saturday it will host live event and workshop . will the Leader of the House join I in celebrate local market and recognise how they remain vital to the regeneration of our town centre ? leigh market be brilliant , and I thank my hon . friend for raise it here . " love your local Market " be a great campaign , because she be right to say that market be at the heart of the regeneration of our town centre . may we have an early debate on the refusal of the Bank of England to comply with its 2 % inflation target ? also , will the Leader of the House facilitate a meeting between I and Treasury Ministers to see whether the Government be willing to support my Bank of England ( Inflation Targets ) Bill , due for second reading on 11 July , which make provision for penalty against the court of director of the Bank of England for failure to meet inflation target ? we have Treasury question early this week , when the hon . Gentleman could have raise those issue . I be proud that the previous Labour Government give the Bank of England independence , which have be an important part of the fiscal stability that we have have in this country — sometimes ignore by the hon . Gentleman ' s Conservative Government and party , I be sorry to say . inflation be on its way down and interest rate be on their way down — that be what this Government be deliver . the unchecked proliferation of house in multiple occupation and exempt accommodation be devastating community across my constituency of Birmingham Erdington . Birmingham have the high number of exempt accommodation claim in the country . ward in my constituency rank among those worst affect by HMOs in the city , crippling neighbourhood and overwhelming local service . give the urgency of the crisis , will the Leader of the House commit to schedule a debate in Government time to discuss how to ensure that no community be leave behind while this issue be leave in limbo ? I know that the quality of HMOs and exempt accommodation be a huge issue in Birmingham and , frankly , it be a disgrace . we be determined to improve the quality of support housing and be consult on reform . at the same time , we be progress the Renters ’ Rights Bill , which will give local authority more power in that area , through the other House . may I begin by echo the revulsion of the Leader of the House in respect of the antisemitic murder in the United States of America in recent hour ? " Cruel " and a policy that see a third child treat " as almost a second - class citizen " . that be not my phrasing , but that of Gordon Brown in describe the Labour party ' s two - child benefit cap — and it be the Labour party ' s two - child benefit cap , because its member go through the Division Lobbies to retain it just last year . in Scotland , we know that the SNP will scrap the two - child benefit cap . base on the Prime Minister ' s u - turn yesterday in respect of the winter fuel allowance , will the Leader of the House advise we on whether another one be likely in respect of this heinous policy ? this Labour Government , like the last , be absolutely determined to reduce child poverty in this country . we will be judge on our action over the course of this Parliament as to whether we do , but we be determined to achieve that . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his advice , as I thank the former Prime Minister Gordon Brown , whom I greatly respect , for his . our child poverty strategy will come out later this summer and the right hon . Gentleman will have ample opportunity to discuss that then . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Wednesfield History Society and all who organise the move 80th anniversary service for the Lancaster bomber crash , which take place just nine day after VE Day in 1945 , in which seven young airman lose their life in Wednesfield ? it be deeply move to stand with the crew ' s family and see the community come together to pay its respect and watch an awe - inspire flypast . what a lovely tribute my hon . friend have just pay to the Wednesfield History Society for mark the 80th anniversary of the Lancaster bomber crash in her constituency . it be moment like that , when people come together to commemorate what happen , that show how we all stand together to remember the great sacrifice that all those people make in the second world war . on what basis be the Government claim that the Lords amendment to the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill engage financial privilege , give that it contain no spending commitment ? will the Government engage with supporter of the amendment in the other place and with the creative industry to find a way forward , rather than try to use spurious procedural argument ? may I assure the right hon . Gentleman ? we will shortly debate the Lords amendment , after these question , and we will have ample time to do that . it will go back to the Lords and the two Houses will continue to consider the matter , which I know be of great importance to many member across the House . we be committed to try to get the balance right between support our value creative industry and the right that they hold and support the future of the artificial intelligence industry . that be why we will legislate in future on some of those issue , and the consultation be run . we welcome that consideration , and we will continue to discuss the matter with member across both Houses . the wonderful Wymondham train station in my constituency will mark its 180th birthday in July , which be great news , but we can not bring out the cake just yet because it be not fully accessible — the centre platform can not be reach by all . may I call for a debate in Government time on how we can get access for all funding for all the station up and down the country that desperately it ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the issue of Access for all in his Norfolk constituency . it be raise with I regularly at these session , and I know Ministers will come to this House and update we shortly on the review of the Access for all funding . I encourage he and other to apply for a debate because I think it would be very popular indeed . one of the burn issue in my constituency be that of waste incinerator . when can we have a debate on the Government ' s proposal for either place a moratorium on they , as happen in Scotland and Wales , or introduce a tax on incineration — a bit like the landfill tax — to encourage the reduction , reuse and recycling of waste , rather than consign it to the great landfill in the sky ? we be take step and have set out new rule around waste incinerator . they will receive planning approval only if they meet strict new criterion , and they must demonstrate how they be go to move forward as part of the circular economy rather than the landfill process . the issue be raise with I a lot in these session , and I know it be a matter of importance to the House , so I will ensure that he get an update from Ministers and that the rest of the House be keep update . community ownership of asset can be incredibly valuable , and I congratulate the village of Auchtertool on its new community ownership of the Tiel pub . meanwhile , in North Queensferry , the community be work hard to take ownership of the Albert hotel , but their effort be block by SNP Government Ministers , who reject their application to exercise their right to buy . will the Leader of the House join I in urge the Scottish Government to give way to the " save the Albert " campaign , reverse their decision and let the resident of North Queensferry take this much - love village asset into community ownership , and will she make Government time available for a debate on community ownership ? community ownership and community right to buy be a key part of this Government ' s agenda on devolution . I be sorry to hear that the Scottish Government have reject the application by her constituent . that should not have happen . we will be debate the importance of community right to buy in forthcoming legislation . Val Upton be a pillar of the community in the village of Lindfield in my constituency . among the many hat she wear in her village be her involvement in the Royal British Legion . when I see Val a couple of week ago at the 30th celebration of the Eastern Road nature reserve , she ask I to find out whether more notice could be give for celebration and commemoration event for VJ Day than be provide for VE Day . be that possible ? I thank Val Upton for all the community work she do in the hon . member ' s constituency . I hear her question ; I will ask Ministers and ensure that she and Val get the reply they deserve . the village and town across my constituency rely heavily on our bus service . despite that , the big bus survey that I have be run recently show that local people too often find bus to be unreliable and inaccessible and that they do not take they to the place they need to go . will the upcoming bus Bill be an opportunity to debate how this government be put community back in the drive seat and how a system can work for all our area ? I be pleased to hear the result of my hon . friend ' s big bus survey . she be absolutely right : people want affordable , reliable bus service that take they to the place they need to go . our bus Bill will give local area the power to do that . I have see what happen when local area like mine in Manchester have those power ; it have massively increase the number of people use bus service and have bring in extra funding from do so . last Friday , I be lucky enough that my private Member ' s Bill be the second Bill list . unfortunately , it be time out — rightfully so — for the assist die Bill . two of my constituent , Roux and Ada , have be in contact with I about my Bill , which be about dog - on - dog attack . I must declare an interest : roux and Ada be my whippet and they live with I , but they be concern about dog - on - dog attack , as be many people up and down Leicestershire . could the Government find time to have a debate on dog - on - dog attack and responsible dog ownership ? I be sorry if Roux and Ada have ever be in a dog - on - dog attack — I be sure they be well look after in the hon . member ' s ownership . it be an important matter , and I be sorry that we do not get to his private Member ' s Bill last week , but maybe there will be further opportunity to do so later in the Session . Hartlepool ' s seaside community of Seaton Carew have earn a " top quality " award from environmental charity keep Britain Tidy . the seaside accolade be only give to english beach that be safe , clean and meet the high environmental standard . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate council staff and volunteer litter picker , include the brilliant people of Hartlepool Big Town Tidy up , for their exceptional work in make our community a well place for we all to live ? I thank all the council staff and volunteer from Hartlepool Big Town Tidy up for get Seaton Carew to be so tidy and for win the seaside award . that sound like a fantastic activity , bring lot of tourist and enjoyment for local people in their clean seaside town . in January , the Care Quality Commission warn that paediatric care at Yeovil district hospital require significant improvement . the maternity unit have suddenly close , initially for six month , create real fear . this follow the closure of the hospital ' s hyper - acute stroke unit . may we have a debate in Government time on improve hospital ' investment management and infrastructure so that we can discuss protect hospital service in Yeovil and across the country ? this Government be absolutely committed to improve our NHS and hospital service in Yeovil and elsewhere , give the situation in the public service that we inherit from the Conservatives . I will ensure that he get a ministerial reply about what be happen in his local hospital with paediatric and other service , why they have be close and what action be be take after the CQC report . as the Leader of the House know , good internet connectivity be vital for economic growth , productivity and ensure that everyone have access to the benefit of be online , but in many part of Middleton in my constituency — less than six mile from Manchester city centre — people and business be be hold back , with many have no connectivity whatsoever . I have be work locally to address the issue . cover my campaign , the Manchester Evening News report : " the entire town have become a signal dead spot , and local be sick of it " . will the Leader of the House work with I to secure a debate to provide a forum for member to relay similar concern about the lack of mobile signal in urban area to ensure that the full scale of this national challenge be relay to Government ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her campaign and the attention she be get in bring her community together to tackle the mobile blackspot in Rochdale and Middleton . I will ensure that she get a ministerial reply , but as this be the second question , from across the House , relate to mobile blackspot , I suggest that member get together and get a debate on this important matter . the Government be implement their plan for UK transport , include major intervention on rail and bus , but also road and aviation . so far , they have ignore the plight of UK island resident , include mine on the Isle of Wight , where we pay up to £ 400 to take a car back and forth on a four - mile journey . will the Government and the Leader of the House do more by allow a debate in the House in Government time to discuss the cost of transport to and from UK island ? I thank the hon . member for recognise all the work the Government be do to ensure that our transport infrastructure — train , rail , aviation — be there into the future and be fit for purpose . I hear what he say about the particular issue face by his constituent on the Isle of Wight and by those on other isle , and I will ensure that he get a full ministerial response . I encourage he to apply for an Adjournment debate , because that would be a good topic for one . as hon . friend in the Scottish parliamentary Labour party be sick of be remind , it have be another distinctly fantastic season for football in Falkirk . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate everyone at Falkirk football club on secure back - to - back promotion and a return to premiership football for the first time in 15 year ? will she also congratulate they on the restoration of the youth academy and congratulate Steins Thistle in Allandale on become the first Falkirk - base club to win the scottish amateur cup in over 100 year ? these thing do not always go down well with everybody , but I join my hon . friend in congratulate Falkirk FC on its back - to - back promotion and all its success this season , which I hope continue in the next . the recent no - notice closure of the special care baby unit and maternity unit at Yeovil district hospital have shock resident across Glastonbury and Somerton . a soon - to - be first - time dad from Martock tell I : " we be now leave in this limbo state as the local NHS trust take care of its poor management affair " . he be not alone ; many people have express concern that adequate step seem not to have be take by the integrate care board and Somerset NHS trust to protect maternity care service in Yeovil . could we have a debate in Government time specifically on improve maternity care service ? I be really sorry to hear about the closure of service at yeovil hospital . I do not know the reason behind it , but I will ensure that all member whose constituency be in the hospital ' s catchment area be update by Ministers on the action plan to reopen the service as quickly as possible . the hon . Lady raise an important matter , in which many member across the House take a great interest : make sure we have the very good , world - class maternity service available for every single community in the country . I be sure it would be a good topic for a debate . my constituent , Corporal Andy Reid MBE , be severely injure while on patrol in Helmand province in 2009 . he defy the odd to survive and have continue to do so every day since . he have undertake a huge amount of charity work , include through his Standing Tall Foundation , which do incredible work across St Helens , the region and the whole country . in a ceremony in St Helens today , he be to receive the King ' s Coronation Medal . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to Andy and all the work he have do , and in thank he for his service and for everything he continue to do for people up and down this country ? I be delighted to join my hon . friend in congratulate Corporal Andy Reid on receive the King ' s Coronation Medal today in St Helens . he sound like a remarkable man who have make a remarkable contribution , and I be sure the whole House wish he well . the petition to protect Northern Ireland veteran from prosecution have , in a matter of day , amass over 98 , 500 signature . will the Leader of the House commit that the petition , once it reach the 100 , 000 - signature threshold , will be grant debating time at the early opportunity ? as the hon . member know , all petition that receive 100 , 000 signature be consider by the Petitions Committee and allocate time in Westminster Hall . some issue , like this one , attract a great deal of attention , and that be what the petition process be for . in fact , the Modernisation Committee , which I chair , be look into whether the Petitions Committee can be give more opportunity to have debate here in the main Chamber or in Westminster Hall . first , I associate myself on the record with the comment about the terrible antisemitic attack in the United States overnight . the horror in Gaza be not just the young life lose , but the lose opportunity . in the last few week , I have be speak to an incredibly bright young palestinian student in Gaza , who be due to start university in Cambridge in September . she can not get a study visa because she be trap in Gaza by the bombing and can not get to a visa centre . she be support by I , the university , and the Co - operative group — a great Manchester business that uphold its value well . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on how we can resolve challenge like this , and how we can help student in conflict zone get the good future ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important matter . personal story bring into the light — if any more be need — the true horror happen in Gaza at the moment . that be why this Government have take a very strong stance on some of those issue . I be really sorry to hear of the struggle his hope - to - be constituent be have in get a visa , and I will make sure that the Minister give he a full response about this case . can we have a statement about political advertising and what be and be not acceptable ? a disgusting , racist advert have be release by Reform in the Hamilton by - election in which a speech by the Scottish Labour leader , Anas Sarwar , be selectively edit to question his identity and loyalty . we may disagree profoundly with Anas Sarwar on a range of issue , but he be a proud Scot , who always try to put the interest of his country first . we in Scotland be unite against that sort of gutter politic . do the Leader of the House agree that this be everything that we in Scotland be not ? I thank the hon . gentleman for the way he ask that question and for put on the record his disgust at how people warp what other say and edit thing together to give a different impression of their value and opinion , as sound like have be do to Anas Sarwar . I thank he greatly for that . we have to tackle mis and disinformation , especially in our political discourse . party that purport to be mainstream really should know well than to engage in this type of activity . the Electoral Commission have power in this regard , but we recognise that those power and some of the law around such matter need strengthen . that be why we be bring forward an election Bill next year . I hope that Reform hear the hon . Gentleman ' s question and take down the video he describe . the Scottish National party pretend to be on the side of elderly people in our community , but despite the rhetoric , the SNP - lead Renfrewshire integration joint board have take the heartless decision to slash funding to the Food Train — a vital volunteer initiative that support our elderly resident with prepared meal and shopping , and help they to live independently . the Food Train ' s funding have be cut , despite the Scottish Government have receive a record - break funding settlement from this Labour Government . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn Renfrewshire IJB ' s heartless decision ? I be really sorry to hear about the decision on funding for the Food Train , which sound like it be a short - sighted one . as my hon . Friend say , this Government have give the Scottish Government a record budget settlement , and I hope they will use that record budget to support local service like those in her constituency . I be sure we all agree on the importance of protect our rare chalk stream from pollution . I write to the Environment Agency nearly two month ago , on 28 March , regard its investigation into Markyate waste water treatment work , which have now discharge raw sewage into the River Ver , a precious chalk stream , for over 4 , 000 hour . despite the seriousness of the issue and its impact on my constituent , I have yet to receive a reply from the agency . will the Leader of the House assist I in secure a response and a meeting with the Environment Agency on this urgent matter ? I be sorry to hear that the hon . Lady have not hear back from the Environment Agency . other Members have raise with I , today and on other occasion , case where the enforcement power be not be use and response be not be give . that be just not acceptable . I shall ensure that the Environment Agency hear her question today . I assure she that the Government be absolutely committed to clean up our waterway and give people the power they need to take on water boss where that be necessary . that be why the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 be now in force , and further legislation will be introduce to make wide reform to our water industry . it have be fantastic to secure investment from GB Energy in much - need rooftop solar panel at Lister hospital , save thousand on the hospital ' s bill that can now be well spend on treat patient , but we should not stop there . far too many home be be build in my constituency without solar panel , so new resident be miss out on potential saving . may we have a statement from the Housing Secretary to make sure that we toughen regulation on solar panel , so that in the future more new home get the benefit they bring ? I be really glad to hear my hon . friend ' s welcome for GB Energy ' s investment in solar panel on his local hospital and that it be already have an effect . he raise the important issue of how we can fully utilise solar technology and other advance in green technology in new home . that be what this Government be commit to do . my constituent ' s daughter , Greta Marie Otteson , and her fianc é , Arno Els Quinton , tragically die in Vietnam on Christmas day . the limoncello drink supply by a local restaurant be contaminate with methanol , a toxic industrial chemical sometimes use instead of alcohol . greta ' s parent , Susan and Paul Otteson , be seek transparency and justice . notwithstanding their attempt to do so over the last five month , they remain without answer . will the Leader of the House ask the Foreign Office to urgently provide either Greta ' s parent or my office with an update on the ongoing criminal case ? like many other member , I be sure , I remember hear of the shocking nature of this case over Christmas . I be sorry that the hon . Lady ' s constituent have suffer since and have not be able to get the answer they need on the death of their love one . I will ensure that the relevant Minister be in touch with she at the early opportunity to ensure that her constituent get the answer and support they need . as the first metrologist elect to this House , I think it fall to I to remind member that Tuesday this week be World Metrology Day . this year , we celebrate the 150th anniversary of the metre convention , which be the international treaty that establish the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures and enable the creation of the modern metrological framework that allow our modern world to exist . as the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill pass through this House , will the Leader of the House join I in wish everybody a very happy , if slightly belate , World Metrology Day ? absolutely . we all bring our own special expertise to this House , and my hon . friend ' s expertise be particularly noteworthy — and unique , by the sound of it . I wish he a happy World Metrology Day , and I be really pleased that the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill have come to this House with his arrival here — he can take full credit for it . a few short year ago , when I be a bright - eyed nine - year - old boy , I visit the Leicester City football training ground on Belvoir Drive . that be the first time I see a young Gary Winston Lineker . he go on to be my sporting hero , as the top scorer at virtually every football club he play for , the Golden Boot winner at the ' 86 World cup and an England captain . for the past 26 year , Gary have be a national Saturday night institution as the face of " Match of the Day " . he have bring we sharp analysis and very dry humour , and when Leicester City win the league , he even bring out his boxer short . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to our Gary for his remarkable run on " Match of the Day " and his contribution to countless childhood cancer charity , and wish he all the good as he sign off from the sofa for the last time this weekend ? I thank the hon . member for take the opportunity to raise that . I be sure the whole House will want to pay tribute to and thank Gary Lineker , who have be a remarkable " Match of the Day " presenter for many year . he have bring football and football highlight to life for many of we , and I be sure we all want to pay tribute to he . bangor pier celebrate its 129th anniversary last Sunday . will the Leader of the House join I in thank the friend of Bangor Garth Pier for organise an amazing event , which be just one of those happen this year , as Bangor celebrate its 1 , 500th year ? happy birthday to Bangor pier — I be sure we will all join my hon . friend in that celebration . People live in the north of Scotland be force to pay extortionate delivery charge for good they order from further south — charge that be far high than people in Glasgow , Edinburgh or Birmingham have to pay . this be a fundamental injustice . could we have a debate in Government time on something that be very wrong indeed ? the hon . member raise the really important matter of the different delivery cost for rural community such as his , who often need those delivery the most . I shall certainly raise it with Ministers and get a full response for he . in just over a week ' s time , the independent review of maternity service at Nottingham university hospital NHS trust be due to close to new case . it be the large review of maternity service in NHS history , with more than 2 , 300 family now involve . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Donna Ockenden , her team and the affected family , and encourage anyone else who can to come forward before 31 May ? I be the third person to raise this matter in business question today . I would like , as would the affected family , a debate in this House in Government time on the future of maternity service , as the issue become more and more pressing . I join my hon . friend in thank Donna Ockenden for all the tremendous work she be do on the independent review of maternity service at Nottingham university hospital NHS trust . as she say , a number of people have raise the future and quality of maternity service with I today . I will , when I leave the Chamber , speak to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and encourage he to make time to update the House and ensure that member be well informed about the progress of the review . on new year ' s day , hundred of home and business across my constituency be flood , and this follow similar flood in 2016 and 2019 . since then , resident have be desperately fight to get a commitment from the Government and the Environment Agency to ensure that it never happen again , but the process be not transparent and clear . can we have a debate on how community can engage organisation such as the Environment Agency to help secure their area from flooding , so that this never happen again ? I remember well the flood in the hon . member ' s constituency . I be really sorry that his constituent be still deal with the aftermath and be unable to get the answer and support they need from the Environment Agency . a number of colleague have raise the lack of responsiveness of the Environment Agency with I today , so I will ensure that they be all hear , but they can rest assure that this Government take flooding and its consequence incredibly seriously . that be why we have set up the taskforce and put record level of funding into it . as I be sure you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , it be time for tram in West Yorkshire . I want to thank all the colleague across this House and the other place who have support Tracy Brabin and I as we lead the charge to secure mass transit in West Yorkshire . the benefit be obvious : we know it will create job , growth and investment . ahead of the spending review , will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time on why it be finally time to bring tram back to Leeds and to bring they to West Yorkshire ? my hon . friend have raise this issue with I before , and he be a fantastic campaigner and advocate for the tram system come to Leeds . I be sure his near neighbour , the Chancellor , have hear his question ahead of the spending review , and I be sure she also want to see tram come to Leeds . I know what a great benefit they have be for Manchester , and I hope Leeds get they soon , too . business in Thornbury and Yate be cry out for change on business rate , from the Play Shed , which have see its relief cut from 75 % to 40 % , to the company tell it would have to wait at least a year to get a revaluation after it subdivide some unit . will the Leader of the House ensure that the Government bring to this House a statement set out how they will review business rate ? the hon . member will be aware that we have make some change to business rate , with a new low business rate for small independent business . I be sure that further announcement will be make in due course , and I will ensure that they be make in the House . thank to the decision of this Government , NHS waiting time have be fall consistently month on month , but there be still some delay for specific kind of treatment . my constituent , Alan , have be wait over a year for the specialist corrective procedure he urgently need . do the Leader of the House agree that these delay in specialist treatment deserve serious parliamentary attention ? I join my hon . friend in recognise that waiting list have be fall month on month since last year . that be what this Government be commit to do , but we recognise that some specialist treatment will be a hard nut to crack , and I will ensure he be update on that issue . rise — Order . I call Tessa Munt to ask the final question on the business statement . this week be National Epilepsy Week . Epilepsy be more than just seizure ; it affect every area of somebody ' s life . with more than 630 , 000 people suffer in the UK , every single MP in this House will have someone with this condition in their constituency . in the light of this be National Epilepsy Week , can we have a debate in Government time on the Government ' s commitment to improve access to care and treatment for those with this condition , particularly those whose seizure do not respond to treatment ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that during Epilepsy Week . the Government be commit to improve care for people with neurological condition include epilepsy . we have a transformation programme under way and that be improve service , but there be much more to be do and much more can be do . I will ensure that she and the rest of the House be keep update . point of Order 1 . 59 pm on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be on record as have express my appreciation to the Leader of the House for her insistence that Ministers should give accurate and timely response to parliamentary question . I be sure she will therefore share my disappointment that in answer my question early she assert that inflation be fall when in fact it be not fall but have reach 3 . 5 % . she also chide I for not have raise the issue at Treasury question on Tuesday , but the news do not come out until Wednesday . be that the standard we be now expect to accept ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . as he will know , that be a matter of debate and be not a matter for the Chair . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I rise in my role as chair of the all - party group on Ireland and the Irish in Britain regard yesterday ' s Opposition day debate on business and the economy in which the shadow Secretary of State the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) say in response to an intervention from the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) : " I be not sure if one can subsist entirely on a seed potato — it may have be try historically , and not with enormous success " . — [ Official Report , 21 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 1038 . ] those word appear to be reference the tragedy of the irish potato famine , which , if that be the case , be of course offensive and insensitive to what take place at the time in the United Kingdom . can you , Madam Deputy Speaker , please advise on how good we can remedy any offence cause by outline the process for an hon . member to withdraw such a statement ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give I notice of his point of order . I take it that he have notify the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) that he intend to refer to he in the Chamber . indicate assent . the Chair be not responsible for the shadow Secretary of State ' s remark , but the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) have put his point on the record . datum ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Lords message I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that the Lords amendment 49d engage Commons financial privilege . if Lords amendment 49d be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . before Clause 138 - Requirement to make provision in relation to transparency of copyright work use in relation to AI model 2 . 2 pm I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 49d . I want to start by put on record something that I should perhaps have say a bit more about in this place . I cherish the UK creative industry — their immense contribution to our national and personal life ; their embodiment of the good of human creativity — and I appreciate the sincerity of their concern about the future . I want to express my genuine gratitude to the whole of the creative sector , from national treasure such as Sir Ian McKellen , Kate Bush and , yes , Sir Elton John , whose performance enrich our life — have see all of they perform live , I can say how much that have personally enrich my life — to local artist such as Pauly the painter , whose painting of Hove enrich my ministerial office in Whitehall . however , this be not a competition about who love the sector most ; it be an argument about how good to champion the interest of creative , large and small , and to protect and promote they into the future . the purpose of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill be to well harness datum for economic growth , to improve public service and to support modern digital government , and I acknowledge the agreement reach in the other place on scientific research and sex datum to that end . the Bill before we today be one step close to completion , and I be grateful to Minister Baroness Jones of Whitchurch for her work on these important issue . I be sure the House will unite in wish she a happy birthday today — it be a significant birthday , but I will not do she the discourtesy of mention which one . this Bill be never intend to be about artificial intelligence , intellectual property and copyright . however , the other place have yet again suggest that there be an amendment on this issue , despite hon . member of this elect House have already remove a similar amendment twice before . Madam Deputy Speaker , I also note your decision that the amendment from the other place still conflict with the financial privilege of this place . as my hon . friend the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms have state repeatedly , we absolutely recognise that a workable solution on transparency be a key part of tackle this issue , but we absolutely disagree that this Bill or this amendment be the right way to address it . I thank the Secretary of State for mention Kate Bush ; she be the love of my life and have be since I be nine . we have repeatedly speak about the need for a tech solution to address this issue . I have a background in datum and technology and have be meet several company that seem between they to have a possible tech solution . will the Secretary of State meet I and they to discuss it ? I be extremely grateful for my hon . friend ' s intervention , for her love of Kate Bush , which I share , and for her passion for find a workable solution and way forward . as I go through my remark , I hope she will see that I propose a way to formalise the insight , wisdom and experience of the kind of company that she reference , so that they can move forward . it be because of the complexity around AI copyright law and the understandable sensitivity of content creator that this need to be do properly and carefully in a consider , measure and reason way . that be what this Government intend to do . in order to make progress all of we need to work to find some common ground and reflect on thing that we could have do well . in that spirit , let I say to this House and the other place that I regret the timing of the consultation on copyright and AI and the consideration of this Bill and the way that the two collide , and I regret that by indicate a preferred option it appear to some that I have take a side in the debate before everyone feel that they have be listen to . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s word ; it be great to hear word such as " cherish " and " champion " in this House . I acknowledge that there be no opt - out in the Bill , but the Secretary of State mention the consultation that be launch alongside it , which adjoin these very issue . will my right hon . friend confirm once and for all that the Government ' s prefer opt - out for reserve copyright be now abandon ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her comment . just to clarify , this be a legacy bill which have be in Parliament several time before , include under the previous Government , so it be always inevitable that at whatever time the consultation be launch it would have coincide with the Bill go through Parliament . that be never my intention but , as I have just say , I accept that that be the impression give . when we go into the consultation , I believe that opt out could have offer an opportunity to bring both side together , but I now accept that that be not the case . this afternoon , we will go to the Ivor Novello award to celebrate the ability and talent of the good of our songwriter from across this country — it will be a magnificent and wonderful display . those writer be seriously concerned that their work will be ingest and churn out in an inferior way . the Government be not offer anything to our creator . the amendment that the Lords have present seem to be reasonable , so what be wrong with it as a way forward ? as I have say , and as I will elaborate , the Government and I believe that there be a well way forward to give the creative sector and creator the protection that they need . it would deliver they the certainty , protection and ability to have transparency and to be renumerated , and provide more possibility to large creator , or those who represent they , to deliver licence into the future . we need to take the issue in the round , not just one part of they . I hope that the hon . Gentleman have a great time at the Ivor Novello award . I congratulate everyone who win , have be nominate or be participate today , especially U2 , who be I think receive an award — other creator who I have see live many time . many of my constituent have tell I that they feel that their work have already be scrape , and that AI development have already trample over their right . what reassurance can the Secretary of State give I that we already recognise that this be a time - limit issue and that action be require ? my hon . friend make a pertinent point . it be true that much content have already be use and subsume by AI model , usually from other territory and under the current law . nothing illustrate the need to have a comprehensive think about the way forward than the example that he have just give . on that point , will the Secretary of State give way ? I see that the right hon . Lady , the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , be on her foot , and , of course , I give way . I appreciate the tone in which the Secretary of State have start his speech . minister keep repeat a mantra about " the uncertainty " of what our copyright law say about AI training . however , there be no uncertainty : commercial generative AI training on UK copyright work be illegal in the UK , but what rightsholder need be what this amendment say : " clear , relevant , accurate and accessible information " about " the use of their copyright work use , and the mean by which those work be access " . a legislative vehicle in the future , however welcome , will be simply too late to protect the livelihood of so many of the UK ' s 2 . 5 million creative worker , who fear that this uncertainty line be just an excuse to undermine copyright law . be the Government really commit to proactively enforce our copyright law ? if they do not do so through this Bill now , how will they do it and when ? I be grateful for the hon . Lady ' s intervention , which be thoughtful as always . may I pick she up on one substantial point ? I have not use the word " uncertainty " or imply that the challenge we have be uncertainty . exist copyright law be very certain , but it be not fit for purpose . all the danger and the exist loss into AI model have happen within the exist law . the challenge that we have , which I will go into far , be happen currently . we need to ensure that we can have a domestic legal system that be fit for the digital age ; we can not rely on legislation that be create for , and be still only effective in , the analogue age . I want to give certainty . the reason that I be make this speech be to give certainty , not only in my word but most importantly in legislation , in the most rapid fashion possible , so that creative and the AI sector can move forward together . unfortunately , at time the Bill have be present as a battle between creative industry and new technology company , but nothing could be far from the truth I thank my right hon . friend for his tone and for the direction of travel that he be set out . bear in mind that he be talk about " the most rapid fashion possible " , why be the Government refuse to put notice of backstop power for transparency in the Bill ? that be what the creative industry would like to see , in order to give reassurance that , in anticipation of further legislation along the line , the Secretary of State and the Government give themselves the power to act , when and if they see that the current rule be be break systemically by AI and tech company . I be grateful to my hon . friend — nobody speak with more passion and insight on the subject than she do . I simply say that the amendment be not comprehensive enough and do not tackle the need and opportunity of both sector . the only way that our country will benefit from the maximum potential that both these sector present be if we can bring they together to find a way forward . pit one against the other be unnecessarily divisive and damage both . the truth be that grow Britain ' s economy need both sector to succeed and to prosper . Britain have to be the place where the creative industry , every bit as much as AI company , can invest and grow , confident that their future prosperity be assure . we have to become a country where our people can enjoy the benefit and the opportunity of both . there be an investment battle for Britain happen , and we must win it . my right hon . friend ' s tone be most welcome , but it be also consistent with how he have be both in private and public on this matter , and I thank he for that , while share much of his taste in music . do he agree that transparency should be a prerequisite for all AI development , not a matter for copyright to handle ? if not now , will he commit to include such power in secondary legislation , should the voluntary approach fail ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s tone and for the way that he have engage so fruitfully , passionately and effectively , both on the record and in the conversation that we have have together . transparency be the foundation upon which we will build the future solution to this problem . in a moment , I will go on to talk a bit more about how I intend to deliver that progress , but in order to have remuneration , solution and the empowerment that creative need in the digital age , of course we need transparency , which be essential and immutable . I will strive on behalf of creative to deliver those thing in a way that be also enforceable and will make the tangible difference , to give they the grip that they need in a digital age that they be currently lack in the age that we live in . the Secretary of State talk about deliver certainty , but do he not see that the certainty he be give be to large multinational tech company that will be able to get away with scrape original content that be copyright ? through the Bill , he will give such company the certainty to abuse the right of creative . in all sincerity , I be confuse by the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . the Bill before we do not mention AI or copyright — it have nothing to do with those item . the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill be as I describe at the beginning of my remark . if there be a clause , sentence or paragraph of the legislation that be before we and for consideration that damage either the AI sector or the creative industry , then I would like he to stand up and read that out . what I be propose be a comprehensive solution in legislation to both the opportunity and the challenge present to the AI sector , which be a barrier for company in that sector investing here , and to the current direction of travel that be pose an existential threat to the nature of the creative sector as we know it . that be what I be propose , and I assure the hon . Gentleman that the Bill before we do not damage any of those interest in the way that he suggest . I thank my right hon . friend for the way in which he be comprehensively show our commitment to the creative industry . like he , I be a huge nerd when it come to amazing new innovation in datum and AI . I be hugely enthusiastic about they , but I also share his equally huge enthusiasm for the creative industry . I appreciate what he be say about transparency — for I , that be the absolutely key point — but what be the backstop if the voluntary approach do not create the transparency that creator need to understand how their creation be be use and if they be be remunerate properly for that ? the reason I open the consultation in the first place be to try to understand where the concern be and where the tech company can provide their suggest solution , on the back of which we can come together as two Houses of Parliament and two separate sector to find the way forward . if we can not answer the question that my hon . friend pose , how will the legislation , which I will propose as soon as I can , get through either House ? we need to bring both sector together . we need to have workable , implementable solution that have grip in the digital age as well as the confidence of both Houses to get the legislation forward . I ask Members across this House and in the other place to offer I a degree of trust that I will lead it through the difficult , challenging process — which have bedevil not just the current situation , but the Government before — need to deliver it for those who need it the most . rise — rise — I will give way to my hon . friend the Member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) , who be the first on his foot , then I will come to my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) . I appreciate the tone with which the Secretary of State be conduct this discussion , and I thank he for that . have spend two decade run business and project in the creative sector before enter this House , may I ask the Secretary of State to confirm when the Government intend to bring forward the promise AI and IP Bill ? will he commit to prioritise transparency obligation in the next Parliament or even to find a suitable vehicle ? finally , will stakeholder be formally consult before that Bill be introduce ? we can see what a fast learner my hon . friend have become since he have be in this place , as he get three question into a 30 - second intervention . I will take they in reverse order . I assure he that I will engage with both sector and give a meaningful voice , include find way of engage view across the House in that process . on his first two question , I have strive to speak — perhaps even stretch the boundary of the clarity with which I be allow to speak — about the future when it come to legislation and the process and formality of this House , in which we be govern by tradition , convention and the wrath of the Leader of the House . I know and hope that when I offer my word , member with vary degree of experience will understand that there be meaning behind they about the speed , enthusiasm and determination to get this issue resolve swiftly , but the legislative programme of the House be in the hand of his Majesty the King and the Leader of the House , for whom we have high regard — I know that she will be watch somewhere in this building , ready to pounce should I step one millimetre out of line . I hope my hon . friend the Member for Southend East and Rochford will understand as I go through my remark and speak in a bit more detail about my intention that the necessity for speed and alacrity underpin every single one of my word . rise — rise — I will give way once more , before I make some progress . on the point about speed , determination and the convention of this House with regard to the legislative programme , in some way that give the Secretary of State a case for put backstop power on the face of this Bill to create the confidence that the creative industry require , so that we do not have to wait for full legislation . have some confidence now would give the Government the power to enforce if they see something that pass the test and there be some transgression . there be a case for what we be ask for because of those constraint . let I be as direct as I possibly can . the amendment before we do not include power of enforcement ; it would give power to the Secretary of State , but it give no indication of how those power should be use . give that ambiguity , it would be incumbent on I to use the power in a way in which I see fit , and I would see fit to do a thorough engagement on the back of such power before use they , if I decide to use they at all . any of my successor in the post could well use those power in vastly different way , which would lead to great instability in an area where I be determined to create stability . finally , it would be disempowere for this place to have all those power in the hand of the Secretary of State and future Secretaries of State when what we really need be a comprehensive set of legislative measure that this place and the other place have fully endorse , be on statute and can give the security that both sector need into the future . it be remiss of I to take the intervention of my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) , even though it be an important one , before the intervention of my hon . friend the Member for York Central , to whom I turn now . I do take a word speak at the Dispatch Box as a commitment , so I really welcome what the Secretary of State be say . will he ensure that , beyond transparency , there will be accountability ? that be the miss element in the Lords amendment in particular . we need accountability for those business and platform that go on to make profit out of our creative ' work . they should be hold to account as the Secretary of State approach this issue in a more comprehensive way , work with the Secretary of State for Business and Trade . the range of intervention show several thing , include the breadth of wisdom and experience in this House and the complex nature of the issue at hand . that be all be deal with by one amendment that do not actually touch on many of the issue that I be be question about . again , that reinforce the need to deal with this issue in the round and in its entirety , with all its complexity . I will turn to the point that my hon . friend raise shortly , but the extraterritorial nature of the way in which AI be be consume , scrape and bring into the model add challenge to get a grip on it . that be why have a Bill that incentivise investment in this country , alongside give modern digital right and obligation to creative in the digital age , be a way in which we can incentivise company to come and obey the law of this land as we move forward . I believe one more Member be on their foot to whom I be yet to give way . while I agree with most of the Secretary of State ' s music recommendation , I pay tribute to Girls Aloud , who be the ultimate pop icon in the british music industry . sugababes , surely ! a close second . will the Secretary of State commit to chair a cross - sector working group with the AI industry and the creative sector in the room to help to inform any future legislation ? I kind of regret take that intervention , because it contain the first reference to a band I have not see live . I have some life goal yet , so I will add it to my bucket list . I will turn to the point that my hon . Friend make then make progress , because we have limit time here , and I want to ensure that opposition figure have all the time that they need to make their point . these issue need serious and dedicated consideration . we have never need the language of conflict , betrayal or slavery in this debate . will the Secretary of State give way ? I be go to make some progress . I will try to give way a bit later . it be time to tone down the unnecessary rhetoric and instead recognise that the country need to strike a balance between content and creativity , transparency and training , and recognition and reward . that can not be do by well - mean but ultimately imperfect amendment to a Bill that be never intend to do such a thing . the issue of AI copyright need properly consider and enforceable legislation , draft with the inclusion , involvement and experience of both creative and technologist . to that end , I can tell the House that I be now set up a series of expert work group to bring together people from both sector on the issue of transparency , licensing and other technical standard to chart a workable way forward . I will ensure that the outcome of these endeavour be make available to member of both Houses . I know that people want this issue resolve speedily . I understand that , just as I understand the anger and frustration of creative who feel that their contribution be be take without proper recognition or reward . the copyright system must be design so that it work for creative and AI company alike . will the Secretary of State give way ? I be go to make some progress , but other voice will be hear . much of the creative content on the internet have already be scrape elsewhere in the world . we can not turn back time , and nor should we kid ourselves that we can exercise extraterritorial reach that we simply do not have . my determination be to get this absolutely right , not just rush it right now , which would make we feel well but would make no real improvement to the status quo . let I be absolutely clear to the House : I get it , and I will get it right . finally , just as I regret that this have be portray as a choice between creative and artificial intelligence , it be regrettable to I that this have become an issue of contention between this House and the other place . this House be not put the interest of one sector above those of another — that would be the wrong approach . the right approach be to recognise that this be too important and complex an issue to be rush . it deserve proper consideration , and it require we to accept our responsibility to do this right , in a way that reflect the seriousness of the situation and the sensitivity of both sector . for now , let we just put this datum Bill behind we . give the constructive tone that the Secretary of State be take today , would he like to say a word of praise for the upper House , without whose determination to keep revisit this matter he might not have feel it quite so necessary to come to this House today and outline in such detail the constructive alternative he wish to put forward ? I of course acknowledge the point that the right hon . Gentleman make . I have acknowledge a couple of time already in my speech the work of the upper House and several member of it , and the constructive and functional way in which we have resolve disagreement on other part of the Bill . that be the way both Houses be design to work — in co - operation , sometimes with tension , but ultimately to deliver the legislation that the Government intend to introduce , use the primacy of this place . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman will recognise that this be not the first time I have engage , privately or publicly . many of the statement I have make today have be make previously , but not in the pointed way that I be do now , which I hope rise to the moment we be in . I have already acknowledge how , look back , I would have take other action to bring this matter to a conclusion much soon . I also hope that other member across this House and in the other place will similarly act in a way that can put this moment behind we , so that we can focus on use the power of Government and , of course , of both Houses to get this right for those sector that be count on we to do just that . from this moment , I give this House my personal commitment from the Dispatch Box to unstinte work alongside both sector , work together to resolve the contentious issue of AI and copyright quickly and effectively . I will report back to this House regularly on the progress make . my responsibility as Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology be to bring forward proposal on copyright that can deliver the balance we seek between the interest of the creative industry and those of the AI industry . we will do that , and we will get it right . rise — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Secretary of State have speak for 33 minute in a debate that be due to last for an hour , and we have yet to hear from the Opposition Front - Bench spokesman . there will not be time to have a proper debate on this matter , which be of great importance to a number of people . will the government please make available more time beyond the 60 - minute time limit ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his point of order , which be not in fact a point of order . he will be aware that the programme motion have already be agree to by the House . as hon . member know , the substance of this Bill begin with the previous Government , in recognition of the need to streamline and harness the use of datum to grow the economy and drive improvement in the delivery of public service . as I have say before , when the Bill start its life , most of we have no idea that it would become the vehicle for address some of the most important social and technological issue of our time . although I welcome the huge benefit that the Bill will bring to the economy and public service when it come into force , I fear that it will go down on the Government ' s record as the Bill of miss opportunity . it be a miss opportunity to fix our flawed public data set , which present a barrier to track and tackle inequality in area such as woman ' s health ; a miss opportunity to commit to a review of protection for child in their use of social medium platform , and to take action to increase those protection where the evidence show there be good reason to do so ; and a miss opportunity to provide much - need certainty to two of our key growth industry , the creative and AI sector , on how they can interact to promote their mutual growth and flourish . it could be see as somewhat dispiriting to be back at the Dispatch Box again , have the debate on copyright and AI with the Department ' s ministerial team , but I see that there have be an upgrade since our last outing at the Dispatch Box . I pay tribute to the Secretary of State for his tone and his approach to this debate , particularly his recognition of previous mistake make . as politician , we do not say sorry often enough , or recognise mistake or where we would have want thing to go well . I appreciate the statement he have make from the Dispatch Box , but the fact that we be here be testament to the determination and sincere concern of member of both Houses . whatever Benches they sit on , they be deeply concerned that we must not miss this opportunity to find a solution to such a significant challenge . our colleague in the other place have speak about their commitment to the primacy of this House , and their reticence to delay the passage of this Bill any far than be absolutely necessary . their resolve demonstrate the importance of this issue to member of both Houses and the stakeholder they represent . the Government have speak repeatedly of their commitment to protect the creative industry , but their action be still yet to match their rhetoric . it appear that " review " have today be upgrade to " work group . " many excuse have be make for why the Government feel unable to act now . Baroness Kidron and other noble Lords have act in good faith on the Government ' s state concern , and have seek to address they in the late iteration of their transparency amendment on copyright and AI . Lords amendment 49d would provide the Government with flexibility to put in place proportionate regulation on the transparency of AI enterprise by reference to their size . importantly , it would allow a reasonable timeframe for the Government to complete their review of response to their consultation , which conclude in February , before the Secretary of State be compel to lay draft transparency regulation before Parliament . for the third time , an amendment on this topic receive the overwhelming support of member in the other place , and the debate at the last round show that the strength of feeling be mirror in this House . amendment 49d be a balanced clause that would put in place a much - need long - stop date to provide the certainty that creative and the technology industry alike have be call for . as the hon . member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) suggest , it be a backstop . the Government have run out of excuse for fail to act . today we have an opportunity to achieve something relatively rare in our political climate : create effective , balanced legislation base on cross - party compromise . it be important to public confidence in Government to show that we can put sound principle above politic when the overwhelming need arise . the Government have another opportunity today ; let we make sure that it be not another miss one . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I rise to speak to Lords amendment 49d . as the Bill return to this House , I be grateful that the other place continue to fight for creative , and this amendment focus on the fundamental principle of transparency while secure the principle of proportionality . I be also grateful for the cross - party work and support in this House and the movement from the Secretary of State today . I know that many member have sign various amendment stand up for creative , and I call on colleague across the House to consider how they vote today on this amendment . at its very core , the amendment would require AI company to provide copyright owner with clear , relevant information about how their work be be use for AI development and training . the amendment be clear that it be for the trader or data holder to ensure that the data be accessible to copyright owner upon request . behind that be real people , real community and the rich tapestry of a £ 126 billion creative industry . my constituency of Stratford - on - Avon have always be a place where art and creativity flourish . do my hon . friend agree that government action be need now to ensure that our british artist , musician and writer — the William Shakespeares of the future — be fully protect and compensate by the big tech company ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . indeed , I be go to say that every MP here will have local creative . the Secretary of State talk about the artist represent in his office . in mine be Tabitha Mary , who do picture of around town in Harpenden and berkhamste . we have musician such as Rock Chorus . in Hertfordshire we have film studio such as Elstree , Warner Bros Leavesden and Bovingdon , and I be that sure many of they will be follow this debate . their life ' s work — their painting , performance or film — be feed into AI system right now and they have no way of know . they want to work hand in hand with technology and AI , but our creative be call for a fair playing field . this be just the tip of the iceberg . I be recently approach by the British Deaf Association with concern about AI company require vast volume of video footage of british Sign Language without proper consent or awareness from the original signer . I be curious about what an AI would say about the issue , so I ask it to write in the style of the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) . I do not ask it for the Secretary of State . as the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore be a Minister in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology and the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , I think it would be quite interesting . I highlight that the AI say that the Minister be know for his bold , articulate style , often weave sharp analysis with a touch of wit , but I will let other be the judge of whether the AI have encapsulate that . this be what it have to say : " lady and gentleman , we stand at a crossroad — one where technology and creativity be collide , not in conflict , but in collaboration . for century , imagination have drive progress , shape our world through art , literature , design , and innovation . and now , AI be in the mix , not to replace human ingenuity , but to challenge it , expand it , and sometimes even surprise we . the question isn ' t whether AI be come — it ' s here . the real question be : how do we harness it to elevate human creativity , rather than diminish it ? " it ask a very good question . to elevate that human creativity , creative be call for transparency . today we be at that crossroad , with an opportunity to vote for that transparency . as the Bill near completion , I urge the Government to accept this reasonable compromise . I accept that the tone and the movement today be welcome , and that work with creative and tech be much - need . do the hon . Member agree that what that quote prove be that AI can not capture the wit and humour that my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) bring to this Chamber ? and fashion . and fashion . in fact , AI be a poor copy of what my hon . friend represent and bring . I think the House have speak on that . true leadership in AI mean build on respect for creativity , include in the House of Commons , not exploitation . we can build an AI - power future where technology and human ingenuity flourish together , but only if we start with transparency . we can be a world leader in set a standard for creative and technology to work together . I invite all colleague from all party to join we today in support amendment 49d , to set that direction and to stand up for transparency for our creator and for the principle that , in the age of AI , human creativity still matter . this be the second time we have consider this amendment in this House , and it be the second time we have receive this , " just trust I — I just want to get on with it " homily that all the ministerial team present when we discuss the matter . they say they want to set up all sort of work group and that they want to get to legislation . none of we have any difficulty with or objection to that , but what we want be action now . we get concerned when the Secretary of State , as he just do , say that there be no certainty in our copyright law just now . I do not say that . the Secretary of State can check back in Hansard . that be exactly what he say , and that be where the concern and anxiety come in . the Government might get a technical victory today because of the invocation of financial issue , but the Bill will come back again from the House of Lords . they be not go to give up . everybody be unite with the House of Lords when it come to these issue ; everybody want a solution now . nobody agree with the Government ' s position — except the AI firm that seek to benefit from the unauthorised use of our cultural work — and the anger be grow . the more the public see of this , the more our constituent get increasingly concerned about how our artist be be treat . we only need to look at Sir Elton John ' s reaction on Sunday — not just the choice of language about the Government Front Benchers , but that he feel so dismiss he be even threaten legal action . surely the way forward be compromise and the Government go some way toward give the creative sector what they want . lord amendment 49d present that approach . it respect the financial prerogative of this Government , and it have take on board everything that the Front Benchers have say . I urge the Government to reconsider their position and to engage seriously on the substance of the amendment , which would address copyright holder ' call for transparency without impose immediate enforcement cost . it would require AI developer to provide copyright owner with clear , relevant , accurate and accessible information on how their work have be use and how they be access . nothing could be fair than that . the Government use word like " may " rather than " must " , thereby avoid direct spending obligation . we must surely work together on the basis of what have be agree between both Houses , and try to ensure that we get something that meet everybody ' s concern . that have to start with this Lords amendment . I urge the Government to accept it at this really late stage , and I encourage Labour Back Benchers , who have make fantastic contribution today and who have stand up to this Government , to vote against they . that will show exactly how strongly they feel about this issue . I encourage Labour colleague to back the amendment . I have to say that I be slightly surprised that no labour Back Bencher be willing to speak in support of the Government ' s position , but it mean that I have more time to speak than I have initially think would be the case . I will not repeat the argument that we have have in the lengthy debate on these measure that have already take place , but I want to make one or two point . in his contribution , the Secretary of State say that he have never mention the word " uncertainty " and imply that he think that copyright law be clear . I have to say that that contrast with an awful lot of the debate we have have previously , in which his colleague , the Minister for the Creative Industries , have talk about there be uncertainty . the right hon . Member must have miss several of the debate in which I expressly say that I do not think there be any uncertainty about the law as it presently stand . well , the ministerial foreword to the consultation paper suggest there be uncertainty , and that have consistently be one of the reason why the Government have say they need to carry out all these consultation . even if the law be clear , as the Secretary of State suggest — personally , I believe it be clear — the important thing be that it can only be enforce if those who have their copyright breach be aware that that have take place . that be why transparency be of critical importance , as I know the Government have acknowledge . the Secretary of State have say this afternoon that he be go to set up more work party . our concern be that , as the Secretary of State have just say , a large amount of copyright material be already be scrape by generative AI . his work party and further consultation — we wait to hear when legislation might arrive — mean that it will be another few year before we actually have this measure on the statute book . there be an opportunity to have something on the statute book now , and he will be aware that the exist provision — the robot . txt provision — be simply be ignore . they be not work , and it be important that we act immediately to send a very clear signal that we expect transparency to be in place and for generative AI company to properly remunerate licence holder . I want to mention some of the other provision . on the Order Paper , the Government have say that Lords amendment 49d " engage financial privilege " . the Chair say that — not we . well , the Clerks may have advise — [ interruption . ] I merely suggest that it be very unclear . as many in the House of Lords have suggest , it be very unclear how the amendment can engage financial privilege . the amendment use the word " may " , so it do not contain any requirement on the Government to indulge in financial expenditure . it be a worrying precedent if the Government be go to avoid debate on policy by suggest that — Order . I think it would be helpful if I clarify that that be a matter for the Chair and not for the Government . I accept your ruling , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it just look very strange to see that the amendment " engage financial privilege " when there be no financial requirement in the amendment . I will finish on one further point . I understand the Secretary of State ' s keenness to attract investment from tech company . when we have previously debate legislation affect tech company , on each occasion we have hear that it may result in their be unwilling to come and invest in this country , but that have never be the case . I hope the Secretary of State will not listen to those who say that if we proceed to enforce copyright law , it may somehow result in tech company find this country unattractive . I do not believe that be the case and I do not believe that it would jeopardise the job that the Government be keen to create . but unless we proceed down the route of accept the Lords amendment , we will jeopardise the job of the 2 . 4 million people in this country who be employ in the creative industry . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 49d . Debbie Abrahams Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson David Baines Alex Ballinger Johanna Baxter Torsten Bell Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Feryal Clark Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Josh Dean Jim Dickson Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Alan Gemmell Ben Goldsborough Lilian Greenwood Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Adam Jogee Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Warinder Juss Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Peter Lamb Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Anna McMorrin Anneliese Midgley Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Steve Race Steve Reed Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Sam Rushworth Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Mark Sewards Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Chris Ward Melanie Ward Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western John Whitby Jo White Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Keir Mather Christian Wakeford Gideon Amos Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane James Cartlidge Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Claire Coutinho Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Mims Davies Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Luke Evans Stephen Flynn Richard Foord Z ö e Franklin Louie french Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Nigel Huddleston Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam Julian Lewis James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew John Martin McDonnell James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Caroline Voaden John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Claire Young Charlie Maynard will Forster the House divide : Ayes 195 , Noes 124 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 49d disagree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree to their amendment 49d ; that Peter Kyle , Anna Turley , Matthew Patrick , Steven Yemm , Katrina Murray , Dr Ben Spencer and Victoria Collins be member of the Committee ; that Peter Kyle be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee ; that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at this day ' s sit , notwithstanding the provision of paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of Standing Order no . 22d relate to the scheduling of select committee statement , select committee statement on the Sixth report of the Business and Trade Committee and the Third Report of the Joint Committee on Human Rights may be make after the conclusion of proceeding on the Motion for this order . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) UK - EU Summit : Policy Priorities Business and Trade Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Business and Trade Committee . the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , will speak for up to 10 minute , during which time no intervention can be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement ; these should be brief question , not speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair and not the relevant Minister . front Benchers may take part in questioning . I rise to speak to the House today on behalf of the Business and Trade Committee on our sixth report — a road map for the EU reset . I hope you will forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker , for use this moment to share my profound thank to the member of the Committee , who be both diligent and hard - work . from our early day together as a Committee , it be clear to we all that our relationship with the European Union have be trap in the logic of the past , and that although not all of that past be bitter , the present be clearly unsatisfactory , and the future could be rich if we collectively choose to reset that relationship with more ambition . that , we sense , be also the analysis of his Majesty ' s Government . we ask ourselves what could be do to move this relationship forward — not distract by fantasy , but inform with a real , hard - headed and pragmatic focus . we travel to Brussels , Belfast and Geneva . we listen to business , trade union , diplomat and official in the European Commission . we look at border post , trade barrier and , I be afraid to say , an awful lot of lose opportunity . we ask one simple question : how can we make these arrangement well ? we seek not to reopen old wound , but to open new door . what surprise we be that it be not difficult to find 21 different way in which our relationship with the European Union could be reset in a manner that would make our country rich — with step that would support our security , deepen our energy tie , and cut the red tape that be throttle trade with the EU . these be not abstract aspiration . they be ground , practical and deliverable , and they be support by an overwhelming coalition of business group that we meet . in short , the proposal we present be back by business , because they be good for business and therefore good for our country . we divide the work into three ambition : first , to defend our prosperity ; secondly , to defend and advance energy co - operation ; and , thirdly , to cut the red tape strangle trade at the border . on security , we propose a bold new partnership : a joint defence industrial policy , a framework for protect critical national infrastructure and strong co - ordination to tackle economic crime . we call for close co - operation at the World Trade Organisation , include UK participation in the new dispute resolution procedure , because a rule - base order be not just idealism ; for we it be insurance . on energy , we see something extraordinary : an opportunity to unlock the potential of the North sea as the world ' s big green energy power station . that vision demand that we come together with the EU to create a single carbon border adjustment mechanism and to connect , again , electricity trading and emission trading . that could add up to a fast and cheap path to net zero for both we and our european neighbour . on trade , we welcome the Government ' s ambition for a deep sanitary and phytosanitary agreement and , indeed , a fair fishery deal , but we press for some specific : mutual recognition of alternative economic operator scheme ; bilateral waiver for safety and security declaration ; co - operation around roll - on , roll - off ferry ; rejoin the Pan - Euro - Mediterranean convention ; mutual recognition of conformity assessment ; and a long - term road map for compatible regulation . on service , we urge his Majesty ' s Government to strike a new data adequacy agreement , pursue deep co - operation on financial service , ensure UK access to Horizon Europe framework programme 10 , sort out a new road map for mutual recognition of professional qualification , reduce the barrier for tour artist , and implement a visa - base , number - cap , age - cap youth experience scheme . we publish our draft report to test it . the response be overwhelming , with support level of between 80 % and 90 % for the measure that we propose . business say , " this be what we need , because it will unlock growth , create job and raise wage . " on Monday , we see some sign that the Government have listen . we be glad to see progress on security , defence , electricity trading and emission alignment . there be a new security and defence pact . there be useful language on critical national infrastructure . there be a welcome step towards join electricity and carbon market together . there be , however , also much leave in the to - do pile . there be no iron - clothe commitment to a share defence industrial policy and there be too little progress on law enforcement co - operation . there be silence on WTO co - operation , although I acknowledge that may come in the trade strategy when it be publish . we also think that there could have be more on financial service co - operation , datum adequacy and mutual recognition of conformity assessment . this be a deal without a date — a handshake , but not yet a contract . none the less , it be an important start . after year of drift and division , this be the first time since Brexit that , collectively , we have the chance to stop dig ditch of grievance and start rebuild some bridge of co - operation . this be a step forward , but it be only a step . what come next must be really clear . we must now have a timetable for draw up , finalise and implement these agreement . there should be action to take forward the unfinished business , which we have set out in this report . crucially , we think there should be a big role for Parliament , because Parliament should not be a bystander while our future be forge . let we not retreat into nostalgia . let we work pragmatically together in the national interest , because that be how future be build . we be at our good in this Parliament when we choose to lead , and that be exactly what this relationship now need . I commend to the House this report and its call to action . do my right hon . friend agree that consistency and clarity be exactly what business require to grow and thrive ? that be why the Government should consider the report ' s recommendation to consult with industry on rejoin the pan - Euro - Mediterranean convention . pem membership could support tariff - free trade , simplify rule of origin and reduce trade barrier for key sector such as automotive , manufacturing , chemical and food production . by join pem , british business would expand its preferential market access to 25 country , thereby strengthen supply chain and boost the competitiveness of british export . my hon . Friend make that point repeatedly during the Committee ' s deliberation . what have be especially welcome be how she consistently bring the perspective of local business in her Dudley constituency — the home of the industrial revolution , as we all know . she be right that , subject to consultation , in particular around the implication for the electric vehicle industry , rejoin the PEM convention could deliver we some rule of origin that would radically cut red tape for many business in her constituency and across our country . frankly , it would also lower cost at a time when that be much need . I thank the right hon . Gentleman and his Committee for their extensive piece of work and for the report he have present today . he mention the wide range of different ask that the UK Government have and that he recommend that they pursue . do he agree that it be disappointing that out of the area that the UK want to achieve agreement on , movement for tour artist and participation in EU defence spending be leave unagreed , while the UK Government seem to have agree on and trade one of our most valuable area in the negotiation : access to our fishing ground ? the hon . Lady will know , as I do , that although fishery and the fishing industry constitute quite a small part of our economy — about 0 . 04 % of gdp — for many coastal community it be a vital industry . nevertheless , we feel — I certainly do — that the prize of an SPS agreement , which could be worth a huge boost of up to £ 3 billion to £ 4 billion a year accord to Aston University and that allow for shellfish export to the european market , be potentially a prize be worth have . however , the hon . Lady be right to say that the big concern that we should have have be defence industrial co - operation . we can not defend Europe in the way that we should , and we can not spend the increase in our defence spending in the way that we should , unless we reorganise Europe ' s fragmented defence industrial base . we can not be strong together unless we build that share defence base together . I very much hope that we will hear of progress on that in the strategic defence review and the national security review when those strategy be present to Parliament before the summer recess . our Committee ' s report cover how we can help agrifood business export to the EU , and I be delighted to see Salmon Scotland and the National Farmers Union Scotland come out in support of the deal this week . do my right hon . friend agree that it be baffle to see the SNP stand with Reform and the Tories in opposition to the deal ? the consensus when we publish the draft of our report be overwhelming , and the measure we propose be back by an enormous majority of business group across the country , include group across Scotland . what business see be a practical , hard - headed , common - sense set of recommendation that should be support by not only the Government but those in public life across our country . I thank the right hon . member for his leadership and hard work on the Committee . I welcome the move this week , and the set of aspirational statement of intent that go in the right direction . that be great , but do he agree that we should focus on the big stuff ? proportionately , the deal with India will get we 0 . 1 % of GDP growth by 2040 and the american pact take we to a position that be bad than where we be six month ago , so Europe be where it be at . Europe represent 45 % of our trade versus 12 % with the US , but of the beneficial 21 recommendation that the Committee set out , maybe five or six have be hit . the key thing be to go for the big stuff , such as be back inside the custom union . that would make a big difference . the report could not have be as well write or as strong and robust in its recommendation without the hon . member ' s input . we be grateful for the hard work he put into get the report right . as he know , a bespoke customs union be not a proposal we make , perhaps because it would not necessarily have sweep up the Committee in unanimity . what be strike be that the measure set out in the report would have be significant enough to offset the economic damage we will suffer because of the tariff introduce by President Trump . the hon . member be right that in economic matter it be always wise to focus on the big number , and the big number in trade come from a well , close , strong relationship with the European Union . I congratulate my right hon . friend on his report and his stewardship of the Committee . my inbox be full of email from local business in Redditch , relieve that after year of hesitation and no progress we be finally in a dialogue with the EU about improve access for business . do he agree that , as the report state , by continuously speak to the EU we can finally start get rid of the red tape , as be promise to business by many on the pro - Brexit side , and get proper access to the market that world - lead company in Redditch really should be able to access freely ? my hon . friend have consistently be a strong voice for the business community in Redditch since he join we in the House . he be right that what have be lack for a long time in the relationship with the European Union be the kinetic energy require to drive any bureaucracy forward . a number of work group be set up because of the trade and co - operation agreement . in a cross - party spirit , I should say it be important to note that the mood in Brussels change significantly under the last Prime Minister , with the progress make in the Windsor framework . however , unless significant amount of political attention and energy be invest , thing will not move forward , and there be still a long way to go . the Committee have set out in the report where some of that progress still need to happen , but ultimately politic be what change thing . I hope that the political energy that go into Monday can be sustain for the future . I thank the right hon . Gentleman , whose tremendously adroit chairmanship of the Committee have allow a lot of cross - party working , which have be really refreshing and very good . this be a moment of regret : the Committee do flag up how fragile coastal community could be damage badly by a multi - year deal on fishing , and the 12 - year deal be beyond anything anybody imagine . it will hammer fragile community right across Britain , and particularly in Scotland ; that be unfortunate . do he agree that achieve an SPS deal must be balance with the deal with India , America and so forth that be come down the track — I be sure the Committee will look at this — and that we must have due care for ensure that the Brexit freedom that allow we to strike those deal be not damage ? the hon . Gentleman be right . as we be compose the report for the House over the last few week , he consistently underline the risk that coastal community would confront if the deal be to go the wrong way . we be all incredibly grateful to he for the voice he provide we must ensure that we enshrine certain standard that allow we to draw close to Europe without compromise the alliance already come into place and those that we still need to strike in order to restore our role as the great free trading nation on this planet . the way in which the Government seek to tessellate the agreement with the trade deal with the United States , with our leadership of the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , with the deal with India and with the deal that be still to come with the Gulf Co - operation Council , Korea and Switzerland need to be very carefully balanced . it look like the Government have just about get it right . however , I know that the hon . Gentleman , like I , will want our Committee to keep an extremely close eye on that as the trade talk proceed . I thank my right hon . friend for this excellent report that be root in pragmatism and practical step , which I know my constituent welcome . he have highlight a gap — as he see it , it be a first step — and there be a lot more to do . will his Committee undertake to monitor the gap between what the Government have commit to and where he would like the Government to be , and will he and his Committee continue to make recommendation to the Government ? my hon . friend be right to point that out . the good news for the Minister be that he now have the scrutiny framework in front of he that the Committee will use to judge the progress that he make over the course of this Parliament . there be a moment that be still to come for this Parliament , however . at some point — we be not quite sure when — scrub treaty will need to be lay in this House . this House will then enjoy the grand total of 21 day during the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 process in which to scrutinise they . that be not very long . the Committee have therefore decide this week that we will open inquiry on the EU , India and United States deal . we will seek to hold hearing on each of those trade deal before the summer so that the House can be as well inform as possible when the CRaG process begin , and we can zero in on the issue that be at stake for our constituent . I be grateful to the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee for this thorough set of proposal , and especially for the call for a great role for Parliament . the Committee red , amber and green - rate its 20 proposal and mark as green the UK - EU security pact . yet the Prime Minister ' s spokesman admit : " this be a first step towards UK participation in Europe ' s defence investment progression " and go on to say that it merely " open the door towards joint procurement . " will the Committee Chair acknowledge how much more there be to do before this amount to a share defence industrial base ? the hon . member be absolutely right . he know , because of the extraordinary record of service that he bring to this House , that there be an immense amount of work that we still need to do to conquer the inefficiency and fragmentation of the european defence industrial base . we can not spend the money that we propose to spend on defence wisely unless we change the way that we procure military equipment . on the one hand , that will provide great certainty and long - term contract to defence supplier and , on the other , it will help ensure that we be build an innovative ecosystem of funding to help small , innovative , nimble and agile supplier of weaponry to come forward in the way that they can to ensure that the lesson that we have learn on the battlefield of Ukraine inform our military strategy in future . if there be one lesson that we have learn , it be that any warfighting capability depend on the strength of our defence industrial base . quite obviously , today ' s defence industrial base in Europe be not in the right place , and together with our partner we have to work hard on that . I hope that the strategic defence review will set out some practical step for how we will do that together with our ally in Europe . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on his statement and on the work of his Committee . clearly , renewable energy be an important part of our relationship with the European Union . what opportunity do his Committee have to examine that and the trade of energy between the UK and the European Union , particularly in the light of the possibility in the near future of an interconnector between Morocco and the UK by way of the UK - Morocco Power Project , or xlink ? he may know that if the UK do not greenlight that in the near future , other european country certainly will . the right hon . member be absolutely right to say that Morocco be a country that we should work more closely with . xlink be an exciting proposal . as a stable , long - term partner to Europe , Morocco be a country with which we have a share interest in the future . the perspective that we bring to the question be on how we can ensure a fast , cheap and less risky path to net zero for we and for Europe . we hear strike evidence from many in the electricity and energy sector about almost the thoughtless way that we have be disconnect from electricity trading scheme . what really worry we in the near term be that , give different carbon price in the UK and Europe , if Europe introduce a carbon border adjustment mechanism , and we do a little later on , almost a tariff wall would be create . we think the Government have do well in seize that win - win , but that be not to take anything away from the logic and force of the hon . member ' s remark . ultimately , we will need several big infrastructure initiative if we be to do what we all know need to be do in this country : to drive down industrial electricity price . mental Health Bill : Legislative Scrutiny Joint Committee on Human Rights Select Committee statement the hon . member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention will be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not speech . I emphasise that question must be direct to the Select Committee member and not the relevant Minister , and Front Benchers may take part in questioning . it be an honour to present to the House the Joint Committee on Human Rights ' report into the Mental Health Bill . as member will know , the Joint Committee be a cross - party body of both Houses , chair by Lord Alton of Liverpool , whose remit be to examine matter relate to human right within the UK , include through legislative scrutiny . over the course of our inquiry into the Bill , we have examine legal framework and witness submission and , crucially , hear from those with direct experience of the mental health system . as part of our inquiry , the Committee convene a roundtable with individual who have experience detention under the Mental Health Act 1983 . their testimony be powerful , candid and often harrowing . they speak of the trauma of be section , the overuse of medication and restraint , and the disempowerment from be detain in facility that too often feel isolate rather than therapeutic . participant have since share with we " how important this visibility be to they , to see their evidence truly listen to and share publicly " . hear directly from people with live experience be not just informative ; it be essential . these conversation ground our scrutiny in the reality face by patient and family . the insight share at that roundtable shape our thinking and sharpen our final recommendation . as one participant tell we : " live experience matter . use it to inform policy should be the standard , not a shock . " I take this opportunity to thank all those who contribute to the roundtable , often at the cost of revisit past trauma . the Committee be also grateful for the expert work of the Committee ' s legal counsel , particularly Alex Gask who lead on this work , as well as Thiago Simoes Froio and Hafsa Saeed who lead on the delivery of the roundtable event . it become clear over the course of our scrutiny just how overdue the Mental Health Bill have become . it will introduce substantial change to the Mental Health Act , which provide the legal framework for the detention and compulsory treatment of people with " mental disorder " — an outdated term , but one that remain part of our law . the change introduce by the Bill will bring our mental health legislation into the 21st century , strengthen patient right and help end practice that bring more harm than good . when people hear about detention under the Mental Health Act , many instinctively think of those who have commit the most serious and violent crime . they picture high - security hospital such as Broadmoor , which happen to be locate in my constituency . I have have the opportunity to visit Broadmoor . the work they do there be outstanding ; it be vital , world - lead work that deal with some of the most complex and challenging case in psychiatric medicine . let we be clear , though : the reality of detention under the Mental Health Act be not limit to high - security hospital or individual convict of serious crime . many people detain under the Act be not criminal . many of they be child , young people and adult with autism or learning disability who be detain not because they pose a danger to other , but because the support they need in their community simply be not there . this be not just inefficient , it can often be deeply traumatise and raise significant human right concern . that be why the Committee welcome the major change introduce by the Government ' s Bill . it will end the detention of individual under section 3 of the Mental Health Act solely on the basis that they be autistic or have a learn disability ; tighten the criterion for detention and require decision maker to consider the nature , degree and likelihood of harm before decide to detain ; introduce the concept of a nominate person to replace the outdated near relative system ; and remove police station and prison as place of safety for individual in crisis . as state in the evidence we receive from witness , those be important , welcome and long - await reform . they reflect the breadth of the Government ' s consultation and prove that the Government listen to the information they receive . while welcome the Bill ' s direction of travel , the Committee believe that there be area where the Government could go even far to provide enhanced protection for human right . that be why , base on the evidence we receive during the inquiry , we have recommend a few key amendment . first , we recommend a new clause to ensure that child detain under the Mental Health Act be accommodate on adult ward only when that be demonstrably in their good interest . secondly , we recommend an amendment to clause 1 to include equity as a fifth guide principle under the Act . this would refer specifically to address inequality in treatment and outcome on racial ground in particular , and I welcome the Health Secretary say on Second Reading of the Bill on Monday : " People from ethnic minority community , especially black african and caribbean man , be more than three time as likely to be section . " — [ Official Report , 19 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 783 . ] in our report , we find that add equity as a guide principle would do more to address racial disparity . thirdly , we recommend an amendment to clause 32 to shorten the review period for restricted patient who be discharge into condition amount to the deprivation of liberty . the first review will be require within six month , rather than 12 , and subsequent review will take place annually , rather than every two year . those key amendment come amid a range of other recommendation . recent case law show that mental health patient in state - commission and fund but privately provide care do not come within the protection of the Human Rights Act . that loophole must be close , and we recommend that the Government do just that . we also hear evidence that the question of when the Mental Health Act and when the Mental Capacity Act should govern a patient ' s deprivation of liberty and treatment be far too complex and raise human right concern , not least because deprive a person of their liberty on any ground can be justify only if the legal basis be clear . we therefore recommend that the Government carry out an urgent review and provide the clarity that be currently lack on this question . another crucial area the Bill cover be the right of child , who be particularly vulnerable when assess or treat under the Mental Health Act . many of the propose change to the law will be positive for child , include the introduction of an opt - out approach to receive a report from independent mental health advocate , but we recommend that the Government consult on introduce a statutory test for assess whether under - 16s be competent to consent or to refuse consent to treatment — a cornerstone of compliance with a child ' s human right . the Committee also deem it vital that prisoner whose mental health make hold they in prison unsuitable be transfer promptly to an appropriate setting . keep they in prison may result in human right breach . in our report , we welcome the introduction in the Bill of a statutory 28 - day timeframe for hospital transfer . relevant datum should be collect and make available to monitor and help to ensure compliance with that standard . the Committee welcome change to restriction order place on a small number of offender detain under a hospital order , but the Government should consider introduce more prompt and regular review by the mental health tribunal , to ensure that any loss of liberty be justify . witness tell we that , in the absence of effective support in the community , autistic people and people with learning disability could still end up in unjustified detention on other legal basis . the Government have state that the change in the Bill will come into force only where there be strong community service in place , but it be vital that this do not delay the much - need reform . we therefore welcome the Government ' s commitment to provide a write ministerial statement annually to both Houses of Parliament set out progress to date on implementation . on what more the Bill could do to improve the prospect of patient receive timely care in the community , we also ask the Government to consider introduce an english equivalent to the right to a mental health assessment that apply in Wales . the report make it clear that much more be need to fix the broken mental health system in this country , and I know the Government recognise that as well . this be a small , targeted Bill , which will not change everything , but the change it will introduce be significant and long overdue . the Government have commit to introduce mental health expert in every school , to set up Young Futures hub and to recruit 8 , 500 more mental health staff . by focus on community - base intervention and drive down waiting list for mental health support alongside the welcome change in the Bill , we can turn the tide and fix our broken mental health system , so that the human right of all those with mental health need be properly protect and they can get the support they need . I commend this report to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I commend the hon . member for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) and his Committee for the report . we on the Opposition Benches will be look favourably at it , especially as the Bill go into Committee . I have one technical question . he talk about restraint for people who have autism and learn disability . currently , the timetable for work out whether they have a mental health disorder or it be relate to their condition be 28 day . do his Committee look at that from a human right perspective , to see whether it be the right time in which to make that assessment ? we do look at whether the process for assess people be appropriate , and that issue come up . it be one where the individual ' s human right be exercise , and we must strike a careful balance between the need to protect they and those around they and to ensure that the deprivation of liberty be only ever a last resort . off the top of my head , I seem to remember that the report find that the balance currently strike be appropriate , albeit it be one that the Government should look at . if I have get that wrong , I will happily correct the record . I congratulate the hon . member on his Committee ' s report . I be really interested in the point he make about an english equivalent to the right to a mental health assessment in Wales . with admission to acute mental health setting increase year by year , do he agree that it could drastically improve admission if we be to introduce such equivalence for England and do not wait until a crisis point for people — particularly young people — to get the support they need ? my hon . friend make a really good point . it be vital , as we have see across health , education and the justice system , that we get back to have a laser - like focus on early intervention , because we know that the early we intervene , the well it be for all involve . as he suggest , improve our mental health system through the measure recommend in the report would mean that we do not get to a crisis point where individual have to be section under the Mental Health Act . instead , community support , which we know work when it be there , can be use to provide these individual with the help they need . I be grateful to the Joint Committee for this report . I note the Committee ' s call for " more prompt and regular review by the Mental Health Tribunal . " the basis for that call be compliance with the individual ' s right to liberty , but do the hon . Member agree that regular review by the tribunal be also in the interest of the family and neighbour of mental health patient , give how disruptive and upsetting it can be for they to have patient live in the community ? absolutely . we hear through our reporting of family be in real distress , particularly where a child be in treatment and where treatment be happen a long way away from where the family live , make access to the family member even more difficult . the hon . member ' s point be really important . of course , our Committee be scrutinise this Bill through the lens of human right , though it be important to we , as I say in my statement , that we hear from those with live experience of the mental health system to inform our recommendation . he make a powerful point . Backbench Business Access to NHS Dentistry I beg to move , that this House have consider access to NHS dentistry . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant time for this debate and the colleague who support that application . I be pleased that many member want to speak and be aware of the limitation on time , so I will keep my remark brief . during the general election , Labour promise to tackle the lack of NHS dental service , and I welcome the progress already make in the Labour Government ' s first 10 month . after 14 year of neglect we be finally start to see action to address the crisis in NHS dental care , include the launch of 700 , 000 extra urgent dental appointment , with my own integrate care board in Humber and North Yorkshire deliver 27 , 196 of they across the region . this government be rightly focus on prevention by roll out much - need supervise tooth - brush scheme in school . that be a small intervention with long - term benefit , particularly for child grow up in area like mine where level of tooth decay be among the high in England . currently , one in three five - year - old in deprive area experience tooth decay — a shocking statistic that simply must be address . over 260 , 000 people have sign a petition lead by the British Dental Association , the Women ' s Institute and the Daily Mirror call on the Government to urgently deliver on their promise to reform NHS dentistry , and the demand could not be more urgent . Catherine , one of many constituent who have write to I about dental provision , have be with her dentist for over a decade but during the pandemic a miss appointment — a simple miss appointment that be cancel by the surgery itself — see she remove from her regular appointment , and she have since be unable to join another practice , be tell that waiting list would take at least two year . in the meantime she suffer devastating deterioration to her oral health , lose all of her back tooth , suffer with an infected crown and bridge , and face the real fear of lose her top tooth too ; and Catherine be only in her 40 . she be quote £ 14 , 000 privately for treatment . she simply can not afford that . she have have to endure constant pain that no one should be leave to bear . constituent regularly tell I that they can not find an NHS dentist take new patient . they be call every single practice list on the NHS website and they be get nowhere . People be live in pain , they be miss work and their mental health be suffer . some people be even attempt their own dental work , and we can not allow that to become the norm . the desire for action be also support by dental practice in my constituency . one of they tell I : " we ' re see high - need patient we ' ve never treat before , often for complex work — but we ' re do this use the same budget we ' ve have for year . " in fact , some of the new urgent care and school - base initiative be not additionally fund . the BDA ' s most recent figure show that dentist in England be deliver the least nhs care of all four UK nation : only 39 % of dentist in England be spend most of their time on NHS work , compare with nearly 60 % in Scotland . practice be deliver NHS treatment at a loss : they lose over £ 42 for every denture fit and nearly £ 8 for every new patient they see . this Labour Government pledge to reform the dental contract : it be in our manifesto ; it be part of the plan that we be elect on . I welcome the early sign of recovery , but when we say that we want to go far , fast , it be precisely on issue like this that the public be look to Government to deliver . in Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes and across the nation we be privileged to have so many dedicated dental professional . tomorrow I be visit Dental Design Studio to celebrate its 20 year of high - quality dental care provision in Cleethorpes . it be a real credit to the team there who have deliver consistent care to local people , often under increase strain . and our young people be not forget locally : thank to the commitment of Dr Jatinder Ubhi from Dentology , multiple young people in my constituency have receive essential dental support . we must not let dentistry become a luxury service only for those who can afford to go private . we need a new approach that be fair , that fund dentist properly , and that deliver accessible care to everyone who need it . rise — order . because so many member wish to contribute and we have to conclude by 5 pm , we will have a time limit of three minute start from now . I call Sir Julian Lewis , who I think can manage that — I think you can do it . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for that no - pressure introduction . I congratulate the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) on her speech and I agree with every part of it . I be hope to quote from individual case raise by constituent and from the local Women ' s Institute , but all that will have to go by the board . I have a wonderful briefing from the British Dental Association and , in the remain two and a half minute , I would like to make one pertinent observation , from which everything else flow . dentistry be a highly skilled profession in which practitioner can charge colossal sum of money in private practice , which give they a financial incentive to steer clear of work for the NHS . that be the root of the problem . on 13 March , I put a question to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care about a point make by the Darzi report , last September , which say : " there be enough dentist in England , just not enough dentist willing to do enough NHS work , which impact provision for the poor in society . " I be pleasantly surprised when his reply be : " nhs dentistry be in a terrible state and , in fact , in many part of the country it barely exist . there be lot of reason for that , and it be a source of constant astonishment to I that the dentistry budget be underspent year after year despite that situation . " — [ Official Report , 13 March 2025 ; Vol . 763 , c . 1298 . ] in reality , as the BDA point out , the reason why that budget be underspent be not because of the lack of demand , but because NHS practice can not fill vacancy and be unable to meet contractual commitment . therefore , those who do work with and for the NHS be have to deliver dental care at a loss . there be a fundamental requirement for a rewrite constitution and contract by which it become worthwhile for people to practice dentistry in the NHS , because otherwise we will see a two - tier society , in which only the rich can get the dental care that people so desperately need . when the NHS be introduce , it make the big positive change ever to the health of the general population . the original " how to use your NHS " booklet from 1948 state : " it will provide you with all medical , dental and nursing care . everyone — rich or poor , man , woman or child — can use it or any part of it . " on the topic of dentistry , it say : " after 5th July you can go to any dentist take part in the new arrangement ( there will be a list at your Post Office ) . " at that time , 83 % of register dentist sign up to work in the NHS . currently , in England , approximately 66 % be sign up to work in the NHS , a significant reduction since the early day that demonstrate a clear barrier to access . as a former NHS manager in Scotland , I have see the importance of early intervention when it come to health inequality , particularly in dentistry . Scotland too have an access crisis , with decrease number of NHS participate dentist . naturally , those low level of participation affect patient access to NHS dental service , and dentist lose the chance to pick up early sign of decay , cancer and other serious issue , which result in high cost for the NHS and bad outcome for patient . additionally , child and adult from the most deprived area be less likely than their wealthy counterpart to have see their dentist within the last two year . recent statistic from Public Health Scotland show that 55 . 9 % of child from the most deprived area have see their dentist in the last two year , compare with 75 . 8 % for child in the least deprive area . those figure drop to 42 . 7 % and 53 . 5 % for adult . in September 2008 , the gap in child participation between the most and least deprive area be three percentage point . that increase to seven percentage point by 2010 , 18 percentage point in 2021 , and then 20 percentage point in 2023 . we can not let that continue . as oral health inequality continue to grow , it be important that our NHS strategy involve a focus on increase participation and access in more deprive area . otherwise , we will continue to see further such worrying trend , which cause more serious problem far down the line . rise — I call Ben Maguire . [ interruption . ] I call Dr Andrew Murrison . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I prefer Ben — I have never enjoy Andrew — but Andrew will do . quite honestly , NHS dentist be saint . as my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) have say , the reason why we do not have any nhs dentist be that it be far more remunerative to do expensive dental work than the sort of grind service work that NHS dentistry imply . the reason for that , fundamentally , be the so - call new dental contract introduce in 2006 . that be the problem . unit of dental activity have plague the dental profession and the provision of NHS dentistry all these year . I be delighted that the Government be revise the dental contract that their Labour predecessor introduce 20 year ago , but , unless they be prepared to underwrite it , I be afraid that we will still be more or less in the same position . it be not as if we be not train dentist — we be train more and more dentist and there be more and more dental school , and rightly so — but if those professional be go to practice in the NHS , they need to be incentivise to do so . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman about the 2006 NHS dentistry contract , which clearly need revision . why do his party not do that in 14 year in government ? I be sorry that the hon . Gentleman have destroy the consensual way in which I be try to introduce my remark . if I may , I will explain that I think there have be a conspiracy of silence all these year on NHS dentistry . what Government have to get to grip with be whether they intend that dentistry should continue to be a universal part of our NHS and whether it will be exempt from the universality that have characterise the provision of healthcare service in this country since 1948 . the Government could decide that dentistry be a bit like ophthalmic optic , which in the 1940 be deliberately exclude from NHS provision . I be not recommend that , but I be recommend to the Minister that we be at least honest with the public . at the moment , we have this pretence around NHS dentistry that say , " of course you have the right to have your tooth fix at no cost to you at all up front . " in reality , in most part of the country , mine include , that be a complete fiction . when the Government come to their new arrangement , which I welcome very much , can we first have some honesty ? can we have some money behind they ? can we have some idea about what part of current NHS provision the Government intend to deprioritise , if that be their intention , to ensure that we have truly universal provision of NHS dentistry go forward ? I thank my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) for secure this debate . today mark a year since the general election be call . over the two - and - a - half year before then , I be out knock on door and listen to people across the Filton and Bradley Stoke constituency , as I still do almost every weekend . one of the issue raise with I the most be how hard it have become to find and keep an nhs dentist . listen and act on what matter locally , I take that campaign up . I raise those local issue with the then shadow Health Secretary , who kindly raise they here in the House of Commons for we before the election . still there be no change from the Conservatives , who vote against Labour ' s plan to rescue NHS dentistry and , remarkably , continue to do nothing . conservative failure be far from a deterrent . I run a survey ask local people what their experience be — I thank fellow resident who take the time to complete it — and the finding be clear . only 31 % of those who complete my survey have an nhs dentist , but almost everyone without an NHS dentist — 97 % — want one . notably , 65 % of those without an NHS dentist say that it be because theirs go private , and nearly all respondent — 94 % — agree that Labour ' s plan to open up 700 , 000 more urgent appointment a year where they be most need would help . still no action come from the Conservatives , and local people vote for change . my very first question in this House be about ensure we have the right infrastructure as our community grow , include dentist . live locally , I know how challenging this have become — I do not have an NHS dentist , either . while receive official designation as a dental desert be not something anyone want for their community , I be relieved that we finally have a Government who recognise the challenge we face . this Labour Government ' s action mean that across our integrate care board area we will now have an extra 19 , 000 urgent NHS dental appointment , and I know this will be just the beginning . the Government will reform the dental contract and examine how we can encourage more dentist to stay within the NHS , get we back to that place where people can again pop that dentist ' s appointment back on the calendar , whether they like go or not . I will not stand for a future where as many as six in 10 child have rot tooth by the age of five , as they do in the Britain we have inherit . I will not stand for a future where the most common reason why child be admit to hospital be tooth decay , as it be in the Britain we have inherit . I will continue to campaign for good access to NHS dentist across my community for as long as it take , and I be glad to finally have a Government who I can work with — rather than have to fight against — to get the NHS dental service we need locally . since be elect to represent Horsham , I have be approach by many resident face impossible price for urgent dental treatment . Annie be 67 and care for a husband with terminal bowel cancer . you would think that she have enough thing to worry about , but give the state of dental service in the Horsham area , she have be unable to find an NHS dentist within a 20 - mile radius . force to go private , she pay £ 80 for an assessment and be then quote £ 150 for an extraction . she ask simply : " when will an alternative to private dentistry be available ? " I also hear from Sally . her family be deny NHS root canal treatment , with an £ 800 private option as the only alternative . she ask : " how can we trust their advice when it feel like it ' s all about the money ? " of course , this be a crisis not of dentist , but of dentistry . the NHS contract — base as it be on unit of dental activity — be simply no long fit for purpose , if it ever be . the conflict of interest between public and private be the result of more and more dentist be force to subsidise their NHS contract through private work . the Government have commit to provide more support and more urgent appointment , but it be hard to get enough new employee through the front door when so many continue to leave by the back door . in the area cover by my local integrate care board , there be more people leave than join across many key dental role . over a six - month period to the end of March last year , there be 41 general dentist in and 43 out ; one orthodontist in and two out ; 48 dental nurse in and 60 out ; and 48 receptionist in and 54 out . in fact , five out of nine role in dentist ' clinic have be lose staff fast than they can get new one . the result be ever - decline access to NHS dental service , with child lose their tooth before they even reach the age of 10 and the horror story of do - it - yourself dental treatment . I will leave the House with the word of the West Sussex local dental committee , which contact I just week after my election last year regard the NHS dental contract . its warning be simple : " if we don ' t act quickly , there may be very little NHS leave to adopt a new NHS contract . " I accept that the present Government be not responsible for cause this problem , but they be responsible for fix it . a crisis have unfold in Norfolk , quietly but painfully ; a crisis that we can afford to ignore no long . it be the urgent and worsen state of NHS dentistry . just 33 . 6 % of adult in Norfolk have see an NHS dentist over the past two year , well below the national average of 40 % . for child the picture be even bad : only 42 . 7 % have be see , compare with 55 % nationally . a & E visit due to dental problem be rise — in the east of England , there have be 152 . 6 visit per 100 , 000 people . that be bad than London , the south - east and the midland . the only region do bad than we be the south - west . we now have just 328 dentist in Norfolk and Waveney with any NHS activity , down from 423 in 2019 . that be one dentist for every 3 , 177 people . one of my constituent recently ring 111 with a swollen face from an infected tooth . they contact six emergency dentist but could not be see by a single one . they be force to go private , pay more than £ 1 , 000 . that simply be not good enough in a modern society . my hon . friend be set out eloquently why we need to improve dentistry . do he agree that today ' s access crisis be the result of a decade of underfunding and contract failure ? in Basingstoke , as in his constituency , two third of adult and nearly half of child do not see a dentist last year . do he believe this go beyond a postcode lottery and be in fact a systemic failure ? my hon . friend make an extremely good point — as though he have read the next part of my speech . the Secretary of State have describe our area as the Sahara of dental desert . I agree , but we need more than just a diagnosis ; we need solution . I urge the Government to invest in a new dental school in the Edith Cavell medical campus in south Norfolk . we need to train dentist where they be need and keep they there . I also encourage all dentist to complete the Government ' s new survey before 16 June . Insight must lead to reform , start with the broken NHS dental contract . Norfolk have be take for grant for too long . our county be ready for change , and I know that my hon . friend will work together to deliver it , because only by work together can we unlock the dental revolution that we need across Norfolk . it be an honour to speak in this debate and to raise the plight of my constituent , some of whom be struggle in silence , pain and frustration , simply try to access basic NHS dental care . I thank the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) for secure the debate , and I share her view on pretty much everything she have say , but in particular the wide impact of poor dentistry on A & E , the NHS more widely and cardiac health . I have many constituent ' testimony to refer to today . let I begin with the real story of a person who have work tirelessly her entire life . now , due to long covid , she be housebound and dependent . when she miss a single NHS dental appointment due to illness , she be remove from the list . she have since be unable to find another NHS dentist . when an infection strike , she wait a week for emergency care at St Richard ' s hospital , and she be not alone . in 2023 , only 24 . 7 % of adult in the south - east be see by an NHS dentist in the previous two year — the second - low rate in England . in some area , few than one in five adult have be able to access NHS dentistry . the Government have announce recent step , with 26 , 546 additional urgent care dental appointment for Sussex — a rise from 245 to 455 a week . we have a £ 20 , 000 golden hello relocation incentive to attract dentist to underserve area . some 17 of those post have be approve for Sussex . I welcome those step , but they be not enough . the Dental Defence Union and the Public Accounts Committee have make it clear , as have other colleague , that the NHS contract be break . it disincentivise dentist from treat those patient with the great need . in 2022 , 91 % of dentist survey feel wear out , and 84 % report burnout . they be walk away from NHS dentistry not out of disinter , but because the system be unsustainable . how many of the urgent contract be now available , and when will real contract reform take place ? I thank my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) for secure the debate . for far too long , people across the country have struggle to access NHS dental care , and I have hear heartbreaking story in my constituency . one constituent have struggle to find an NHS dentist , which have leave he without access to the denture he need . he tell I : " all I want be to return to work as I have always work but have no upper tooth be hold I back as I be so embarrassed . " poor dental health should not be a barrier to individual return to work , and my constituent ' s situation be unacceptable . it simply should not happen . however , there be glimmer of hope . this government ' s announcement of 700 , 000 extra urgent dental appointment be a vital step forward , and nearly 18 , 000 of those appointment will be deliver in Greater Manchester , include for resident in Leigh and Atherton , who have be wait for far too long . it be a sign of intent and a recognition that action be overdue , but for all this to work we need the workforce in place , and that be where the challenge remain . Railway Road dental practice in Leigh have be try to replace a senior dentist for nearly nine year . despite advertising , there have be no interest . it be a clear sign that practice , particularly in area of high deprivation , need well support to attract and retain staff . the Government ' s golden hello scheme be a smart move , as it offer financial incentive to bring dentist into the area that need they most . through the NHS long - term workforce plan , we be increase dental training place by 40 % . as the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) say , we must acknowledge the people who have keep NHS dentistry go through difficult time . I pay tribute to Mr Dobranski , a local dentist who have give 53 year of his life to the NHS . his service to the people of Leigh be nothing short of remarkable , and I sincerely thank he for it . yes , the challenge be big , but I be encourage by the step be take . the extra appointment , the investment in the workforce and the renew focus on prevention be all sign that we be finally face up to the crisis . I congratulate the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) on secure the debate . I be delighted to be able to support her application , because this issue deeply affect my constituent . dentistry be in crisis nationally , and nowhere be that feel more so than in rural community such as West Dorset . in my constituency we have just 15 dental practice offer any form of NHS dental care , serve a population of more than 94 , 000 . I have to confess that I rather envy my hon . friend for have 15 dental practice , as I have a mere nine . in fact , as become evident in the Public Accounts Committee inquiry , which I attend as a Committee member , Minehead have few dentist than anywhere else in the United Kingdom . it be really important that we carry on lobby the integrate care board , because they can give out contract . I know that my hon . friend ' s constituency suffer from a lot of the same issue as West Dorset , give their similarity . the consequence of the lack of NHS dental care be stark : only 36 % of adult in West Dorset have see a dentist in the past two year , and just 50 % of child have have a dental appointment in that time — an alarming 9 % low than in 2019 . I know that the Government have announce a rescue plan to provide 700 , 000 more urgent dental appointment and to recruit new dentist to the area that need they most . that be welcome news , but how exactly be the area with the most need be assess ? what specific provision be be make to ensure that rural area such as West Dorset , where the population density be low but unmet demand be high , be not leave behind once again ? in Devon we have a budget of £ 377 , 000 to recruit new dentist . sadly , only two of the 22 dentist have actually be recruit . do my hon . friend agree that this demonstrate that the Conservatives ' golden hello scheme have completely fail , and that we desperately need a new contract now ? my hon . friend be right that a lot of this come down to the funding model . when funding be allocate under the current model , it be always rural community that lose out . I ask that the rurality of place such as West Dorset be recognise in both the workplace planning and the resource allocation , because the south - west have the high rate of dental - related A & E visit — 217 per 100 , 000 people . that be one in every 460 people turn to emergency care because they can not get an NHS dentist ' s appointment . preventable oral health issue be flood our hospital because we have fail to resource our community dental service . the Government have make some minor tweak to the dysfunctional NHS contract , which be welcome , but morale be at an all - time low . over 60 % of dentist in England be think of leave the NHS all together . the current contract often leave dentist lose money on every NHS patient they see — for example , a typical dentist lose £ 42 . 60 per denture fit . that be unsustainable , and it be time to reform the system as a whole , because change can not wait . I ask the Government to come forward with a clear timeline for negotiate on contract reform , and to properly support integrate care board , as my hon . friend the Member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) say , with ringfenced funding for dental service . the Liberal Democrats be call for a comprehensive dental rescue package that would guarantee access to an NHS dentist for everyone in need of urgent or emergency care . it would also ensure NHS dental check - up for those already eligible , include child , pregnant woman , new mother and people on low income . in addition , the package would guarantee that anyone begin chemotherapy , undergo a transplant or face critical treatment receive the essential dental assessment that they need beforehand . I would like the Government to reverse the cut to public health grant , which have fall by 26 % in real term since 2015 , to restore funding for preventive oral health programme , to expand supervised toothbrushing for child in school and nursery , and to scrap the vat on child ' s toothbrush and toothpaste . I ask the Government to act now . on behalf of my constituent and all rural community , I ask that community such as mine in West Dorset be not treat as an afterthought in the funding model , but be give priority . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) for secure this vital debate . this issue touch on every community , but I will focus on how the crisis be play out in my constituency . Amber Valley have less than a quarter of the national average number of NHS dentist per 100 , 000 people . when I speak to resident on the doorstep and in my surgery , I hear the same heartbreaking story from people in pain who be unable to access an NHS appointment . some have become so desperate that they have resort to pull out their own tooth . during my campaign , I make a promise to the people of Amber Valley to fight for well access to NHS dental care , and that remain my most urgent pledge . we do have a handful of dedicated , hard - work dentist who be maintain NHS patient list against difficult odd — dentist such as Dr Nadia Duarte at Amber Valley dental practice — but most surgery simply do not have the resource to keep their NHS list open . this put huge pressure on the few that do , with waiting list stretch over two year . simply put , anyone be extremely lucky to get an NHS appointment in Amber Valley . Amber Valley dentist have tell I that our surgery receive the low payment per NHS treatment when compare with neighbouring constituency . this have make it almost impossible to recruit and retain the quality NHS staff we need . I take this up with the Derbyshire integrate care board , say not just that this be unfair , but that it have create a crisis of health inequality for Amber Valley . I be grateful that it listen and act . we have secure an additional £ 240 , 000 to address this underpayment , allow our surgery in Amber Valley to take on more NHS staff and make it easy for we to get the NHS appointment we need . it be a real win for Amber Valley , but nothing less than my constituent deserve , although it be only a small part of the solution and one that will take time to bear fruit . that be why I particularly welcome the Government ' s commitment to 700 , 000 additional emergency NHS dental appointment each year , and I urge my constituent to access one of the 16 , 298 such appointment in Derbyshire . I promise the people of Amber Valley that I would speak up for they and fight for the dental care that should be their right , so although I be grateful for the progress the Government have make so far , I say to my hon . friend the Minister : please , let we go far and fast so that no one in Amber Valley have to suffer without the dental care they need . I thank the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) for introduce this debate . Thornbury and Yate be a dental desert . accord to a recent newspaper report , not a single dentist in Thornbury and Yate be take on new NHS patient for the third year in a row , leave people have to travel long distance for care , or force to pay for private treatment . I be sure , as a fellow south - west MP , the Minister will be as concerned as I be to hear that in September 2024 the NHS dental activity delivery rate be low in the south - west , at 61 . 6 % , compare to the high in London , at 94 . 7 % . not surprisingly , in the south - west , around one in every 460 people have to be take to A & E with a dental problem in 2023 - 24 . that be substantially high than in London , where the figure be only one in every 860 people . the area cover by the NHS Bristol , North Somerset and South Gloucestershire integrated care board be the bad of all world , with few dentist , adjust for population size , and low dental activity delivery rate alongside high number of A & E visit with dental problem . I want to highlight two case that show the impact that be have on vulnerable people . one constituent write : " despite contact more than a dozen dental practice in and around South Gloucestershire and Bristol , I have be tell by every single surgery that no NHS appointment be available . however , I have be offer private appointment if I be willing to pay … the situation be even more distressing as my wife be currently pregnant and require urgent dental care , which be crucial for her health and that of our unborn child . pregnant woman be entitle to free NHS dental care , yet this right be render meaningless when no NHS appointment be available . " another constituent write to I : a cancer patient who need major dental treatment ahead of intense radiotherapy . Bristol dental hospital advise they they would need lifelong follow - up care , but during covid that treatment be stop and they be discharge back to their NHS dentist . soon after — surprise , surprise — the practice cease to provide NHS dentistry and they could not find another , so they be force to pay for their essential treatment . there seem to be a consensus across the House that the NHS dental contract be break . that be the consensus across the country as well , include in my constituency . if there be one thing we can get out of the debate today , it be a timeline to which the Government will commit to fix the situation and to bring legislation before the House . do my hon . friend agree that would be of benefit ? I do . we also need solution for people like my constituent in the meantime ; they have already have to pay £ 1 , 400 for treatment and they face another £ 2 , 000 - worth of work to be able to eat normally . that be a stiff fee when you be reliant on personal independence payment and your spouse ' s pension . my constituent feel that they have nowhere to turn . to sum up , patient like my constituent deserve access to an NHS dentist . we need an emergency scheme to guarantee access to free NHS dental check - up for those already eligible : child ; new mother ; those who , like my constituent ' s wife , be pregnant ; and those on low income . we need a dental rescue package that bring dentist back into the NHS from the private sector by fix the dental contract and use flexible commissioning to meet patient ' need in the meantime . anyone who have have severe toothache know the unbearable agony . in those moment , it feel like there be nothing bad . but imagine watch your four - year - old child suffer that same pain and be tell that he can not be help . that be the reality for my constituent , Louise . a single mum , Louise get in touch with I when she be at break point . she have to watch her son suffer through constant distress : cry in agony , unable to sleep and refuse his food . when she manage to see an emergency dentist , she be tell he would need between four and eight tooth extract under local anaesthetic , but the wait time for that procedure be up to two year . Louise be leave with no choice but to manage her son ' s pain with daily Calpol and ibuprofen . that be not healthcare — it be abandonment . sadly , Louise ' s story be not rare . in my constituency of Blackpool South , people be be drive to desperate measure . they be turn up at A & E in agony because they can not get dental appointment . some be even resort to pull out their own tooth at home — DIY dentistry in 21st - century Britain . nhs dentistry be leave to decay under the previous Government . I stand over there on the Opposition Benches one year ago today , highlight the problem we have in Blackpool . in Blackpool South , just 34 % of adult have see an NHS dentist in the last two year . that be a sharp fall from over 50 % a few year ago and well below the national average . only 45 % of child be see in the past year — a figure that be low than almost anywhere else in England . People live in poverty be most at risk of poor dental health , and in my constituency , poverty be a daily reality for so many . child ' s tooth decay be one of the clear sign of how deep this crisis run . in Blackpool , one in five three - year - old and nearly one in three five - year - old have visible dental decay — among the high rate in the country . behind every number be a child miss class because of dental pain , and a parent like Louise who feel helpless ; all this in a town that already face some of the deep health inequality in the country . I be pleased that the Government have roll out 700 , 000 more urgent dentist appointment , and I know the Government be commit to recruit new dentist in area that need they most , like Blackpool . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to reform the dental contract , but I urge they to act now . the BDA point out that a reform service will not work if there be no workforce leave by the time it be finally introduce . the sector need a clear timetable for negotiation , a firm deadline for a new system and a sustainable funding model . the Government need to build a system not on crisis care , but on prevention and early access , and it have never be more urgent . People in Blackpool South be not ask for special treatment . they be just ask for treatment — and the simple assurance that toothache will not become trauma . I be grateful to the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) for secure this debate — the application for which I be pleased to support . I would like to tell the House about Philip , who write to I , in his own word , in " desperation " . he be a proud armed force veteran and be recover from a recent surgery for lung cancer when he suffer a fall , which cause he to lose a number of his tooth . after his maxillofacial surgery , he be horrify to discover that there be no dentist take NHS patient near he , and his previous dentist have simply remove he from their system . he need denture — not just for cosmetic reason , but to be able to eat proper meal — and be face a future without any of this support . case like Philip ' s will ring true , I be sure , for far too many people here , and indeed across my constituency . I be pleased to say that in this instance , my team and I get straight on the case and be able to help Philip to secure an NHS appointment with a local dentist early this week . we look forward to see he with a full smile again soon . however , we can not do that for the two third of my constituent who be not see an nhs dentist , and nor should we have to . we need to fix the broken system that be let down people in North Norfolk . one exciting prospect on the horizon be the establishment of a dental school at the University of East Anglia , as my near neighbour , the hon . member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) , have already mention . the school have support from member of all party in Norfolk , and we be excited for Norfolk to start training and place its own dentist in the come year . however , the University of East Anglia need funding for place from the Government confirm before 2 May in order to appear in the UCAS application for student begin in September 2026 , but the Treasury have demand that any such spending not be confirm until the spending review in a few week ' time . for the sake of less than six week of bureaucracy , my constituent face yet another full year of delay . nevertheless , I be pleased that it be confirm this week that Cromer will have an expand dental practice that will take on new NHS patient . the Lib Dem - lead North Norfolk district council have work to secure a new lease with the Dental Design Studio on the former tourist information centre . the new practice will have five surgery , all at ground level to improve accessibility . after year of decline , we may finally be see the green shoot of improvement in North Norfolk ' s part of the dental desert . I be pleased to have the opportunity today to stand up for everyone who have struggle with our crumble system over the past few year — for people like Philip , for the many child face tooth decay , for all those on waiting list and for those force to fork out for private treatment . thing must improve , and they can . I will be fight hard to ensure that they do . nhs dentistry have be a recur theme for I both before the election and since , as I know be true for most colleague , which be why this Labour Government have make it a priority . however , we be start from a very difficult place . let I set out just how bad the situation be in Morecambe and Lunesdale . last year , I knock on the door of a man in Morecambe who have lose most of his tooth because he do not have access to dental care . just yesterday , a constituent write to I ask I to speak in this debate . she and her husband travel more than 80 mile four time a year just to see their NHS dentist . they be retire and can not afford to go private , and , like many old people , they need regular and more complex care . we do not have to look far to see the root of the problem — so to speak . dentist have be tell we for year that the NHS dental contract be not fit for purpose . the contract create perverse incentive . dentist be discourage from treat the patient who need they the most . I appreciate that this be partly because in the ' 90 and early ' 00 , the contract incentivise the over - treating of patient , but now the pendulum have swing back too far the other way , and we have to find a balanced approach . dental decay be one of the lead cause of hospital admission in child . in 2023 , over 30 , 000 child end up in hospital need their tooth remove . the Government have an historic commitment to prevention . Birmingham Erdington be one of the young constituency in the country . do my hon . friend agree that we must continue to build on supervised brushing and target fluoride application in early year setting to protect the youngster ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . prevention be always well than cure . when I sit on Lancashire county council ' s health scrutiny committee , we take evidence that show that thing such as supervised brushing and help with fluoride be some of the most cost - effective intervention , and they could prevent the horror of 30 , 000 child go into hospital for preventable tooth removal . dental health have become a stark marker of inequality . without ongoing care and access to that preventive care , child in less well - off family be more likely to suffer worsen dental problem . the contract be a major problem . it lock in those perverse incentive , but the situation be then worsen by over a decade of neglect of all area of public health under the previous Government . too many family do not go to the dentist until it be too late and it be very expensive , so we need those preventive measure that my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington speak about and we need access to nhs dentist . we know that if people be not able to go to the dentist , it mean they turn up at A & E , but they be send away with painkiller and antibiotic , and that do not fulfil their need . I be pleased that our Government be take this issue seriously . I be pleased that we recognise the scale of the problem , and I be pleased that we be take action not only on NHS dentistry , but on preventive care . we owe it to family in Morecambe and Lunesdale and across the country to fix this break system . we need a dental contract that actually work , fair funding for local service and access to care that be available when people need it . nhs dentistry be in crisis , and South Devon be no exception . accord to the Nuffield Trust , it be now at " its most perilous point in its 75 - year history . " parent be pull out their child ' s tooth at home . pensioner be travel abroad for basic dental treatment . hundred of people in the dental desert of South Devon have simply give up hope of ever see an NHS dentist again . last year , 13 million adult across the country could not get an NHS dental appointment — more than one in four . in my constituency , the situation be even bad . over 60 % of adult and 50 % of child in Devon have not see a dentist in the past two year . no local practice be accept new NHS patient , and waiting time can stretch into year . the crisis be drive by an underfunded and outdated system that be push professional out . in England , NHS dentistry receive just £ 38 a head . in Scotland , I be tell that it be nearly double that . each year , hundred of million of pound in dental funding go unspent , not because it be not need , but because dental practice can not recruit or retain staff under the current contract . the rigid contract system be also prevent dentist come up with innovative idea , such as a proposal for a no - frill , low - cost dental service in Dartmouth in my constituency that get nowhere because of nhs red tape . I ask the Minister when will we hear about a reform dental contract ? the Dental Defence Union have highlight other issue that be contribute to the collapse . one major concern be fall morale among dental professional . in a 2022 survey of nearly 500 dental staff , 86 % report experience increase workplace pressure over the past two to three year — a clear signal that the work condition be drive people out of the profession . dentist be also lose money to provide NHS care . for every denture they fit , they be out of pocket by more than £ 40 . no wonder over 60 % of NHS dentist say they plan to leave . we need urgent action . that be why the Liberal Democrats be call for real reform . we be campaign to end dental desert and to guarantee access to an NHS dentist for everyone who need urgent or emergency care . our dental rescue package would bring dentist back to the NHS by fix the broken contract and use flexible commissioning to meet local need . we want an emergency scheme to ensure free NHS check - up for those who be already eligible , such as child , new mother , pregnant woman and people on low income . we be also call for guarantee access to dental care for anyone need treatment before chemotherapy . the long this go on , the bad it get . South Devon need proper dental care , not more delay . yes , preventive dental care cost money , but prevention be always well and cheap than cure . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) for secure this important debate . I also thank the dentist , hygienist , dental nurse and practice staff in my constituency who do so much to look after my constituent . the reality be that the dentistry system we inherit from the previous Government be break , and we need to fix it . time and again when I be knock on door in Gloucester , I hear that patient can not get the dentist appointment they need , that we have people pull their own tooth out at home , and that there be child with tooth rot in their mouth . we need more nhs dentist in Gloucester . this week , I have launch a campaign to get a new dental practice in Gloucester city to deliver for my constituent , and I write to my local ICB early this week about it . we need to see this new practice as soon as possible , so I would welcome a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss my campaign to deliver a new dental practice for my constituent . I recognise that my ICB and this Government have make fantastic progress on urgent dental care in Gloucestershire . we have another 11 , 000 urgent dental appointment in my constituency and the wide area , which be already deliver for my constituent who be most in need . but what we really need be regular check - up appointment so that people can be see more regularly . I welcome reform of the dental contract and the consultation with local dentist , and I encourage all dentist and dental practice in my constituency to get involve with it so that we can deliver a well dentistry system than the one leave behind a year ago by the Conservative party . I thank the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) for bring forward this important debate . in my constituency and across Scotland , family be desperately struggle to access NHS dental treatment . Public Health Scotland figure show that while 87 % of child be register with an NHS dentist , only about 66 % have actually be see by one in the past two year , and in our most deprived area that drop to only one in two child . this be despite the SNP claim that 95 % of child be register with an NHS dentist . when routine care disappear , the consequence be see in hospital . before the pandemic , Scotland be admit about 8 , 000 child a year for dental extraction under general anaesthetic , make it the single big cause of plan childhood admission to hospital . despite the clear and dire consequence of fail to address dental health and health inequality in general , the government in both Holyrood and Westminster appear to be look the other way . a recent British Dental Association survey highlight the financial strain face by dentist , with 45 % of practice say that they be struggle to stay financially viable and over half say that the recent Budget have accelerate their move into the private sector . with that in mind , we must ask why this Government choose to follow through on their national insurance rise for primary care provider such as dentist . it appear that while labour ' s manifesto say that they would support local health provider , the reality for those provide care be quite different . I therefore join my liberal Democrat colleague in call on the Government to reconsider their stance on national insurance . fail to return national insurance contribution to their former level will inevitably result in few NHS dental appointment , few NHS dental provider , and more child on operating table . be there a well metaphor for the state of this country than the state of dentistry ? fourteen year of neglect leave we with a decayed system of NHS provision , with those able to pay the only one protect . I see it myself with ward full of child with dental abscess at the weekend . resident have tell I story of search for NHS dental provision that simply do not exist . in my constituency , the number of urgent appointment have increase by 35 % , with practice provide urgent dental care service seven day a week and into the evening , and there be more come soon , so the Government be make a serious attempt to deal with the decade of decay and drift , but we must go far . we do not have enough dentist and we do not have enough dental service provider , so let we sort out the dental contract , which we have hear about . the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) , who be no long in his place , be quite right that NHS dentist be in fact hero . the point have be make repeatedly that dentist can earn a lot more money in private practice than in NHS dentistry , and that be unlikely to change no matter what happen in the renegotiation . do the hon . member agree with the last Government ' s review , which suggest that the roughly £ 300 , 000 cost of train a dentist should come with a requirement to work for the NHS for a number of year afterwards ? that be certainly a suggestion that should be investigate . we must increase the number of dentist , as we have only 24 dentist for every 100 , 000 people in the east of England . we also need to increase the number of training provider and training place , but even with the opening of a dental school it will take age for there to be new dentist . one suggestion be that we sort out the dental accreditation system . hon . member may not know that there be only 600 opportunity to take the accreditation exam each year , but there be 6 , 000 people plan to take the exam — that will take 10 year . we must get the General Dental Council to increase the number of exam opportunity . we have begin to address this political emergency , but we must go far with a clear and fair offer focus on what the Minister describe as the triangle of patient , practitioner and the public purse , provide a service that ensure that we give excellent , affordable care for all , include prevention , especially for the most vulnerable , and in a way that mean we can pay for it . nhs dentistry can be save . let we have a sign on the door say , " Urgent NHS dental appointment available here . " would that not that be great ? I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) for secure this really important debate . before I be elect , I drive around Winchester , the Meon valley and the beautiful New Forest treat horse as a veterinary surgeon , and a key part of that role be provide regular dental treatment . horse do not like go to the dentist any more than human do , but they need to have their tooth brush every six month — at least every year — or they get ulcer in their mouth and they can get infect tooth root . when we have to remove a tooth with a root that be three inch long — especially on a hot day like today — we work up a sweat and it take a long time , but it be really painful for the horse , even though we use painkiller and nerve block . often , all of that would have be avoidable have they have regular dental treatment , and it cost the owner a lot more money . it be exactly the same with human medicine . there be cross - party agreement , with no one dispute that prevention be well than cure , and when it come to dental care in the NHS we be fail at even the most basic level of public health . I be not go to go through all the stat that hon . member have repeat about the number of child need general anaesthetic for dental care . will the hon . Gentleman welcome the Government ' s partnership with Colgate on tooth - brushing in school so that we can tackle prevention with child and make sure they be not go into hospital with tooth decay because they be learn how to brush their tooth and do so properly ? I absolutely welcome that fantastic initiative . I visit two dental practice in Winchester , and both tell I exactly the same thing : they want to do more nhs work , and they want to be there for their community , but because of the current NHS dental contract they simply can not make it financially viable . they be effectively subsidise their NHS patient with income from private work . the British Dental Association estimate that private dentistry in England cross - subsidise NHS care to the tune of £ 332 million a year , which be due to rise to £ 425 million if NHS practice be not offer any help with the ten of thousand in additional staff cost bring in by the increase in national insurance . with the NHS work they do perform , they do not have time for the education — the proactive , holistic healthcare — that they want to do . instead , they have to get people through in a quick turnaround . I say this clearly : dentist be not the problem . they be do their good within a contract that be outdated and damaging . I also want to speak to something that be often overlook in this conversation : oral health be not just about tooth . I know that my dentist colleague , as in veterinary practice , routinely identify serious condition such as oral cancer and squamous cell carcinoma during routine dental check . those cancer be often aggressive but spot early , they can be treat . we also know that infection in the mouth can lead to thing such as endocarditis , which be not a trivial condition , and there be good evidence that periodontitis can contribute to the onset of dementia . how many cancer be we miss ? how many heart problem be we not avoid by not have routine dental check ? I will sum up now as I know that we be push for time . the Liberal Democrats will continue to fight tooth and nail for an NHS that include dentistry . I manage to avoid make any joke about equine dentistry , and member will be glad to hear that straight from the horse ' s mouth . we do not want NHS dentistry to be an afterthought ; it have to be a core part of a truly universal , holistic health service . everyone deserve access to routine dental care . many member have say that they live in area that be dental desert , where NHS dentist be rare than hen ' s tooth . it be clear that we have cross - party consensus . let we get the dental contract reform and let we make this Parliament the last one during which anyone have to extract their own tooth . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) on secure this debate . dentistry be important . dentist do not just deal with our tooth ; they deal with our mouth and gum , they identify physical disease that include cancer and they prevent sepsis . last month , I visit the Dental Design Studio in Sleaford to celebrate its 20th anniversary of great dentistry and I meet some fabulous , committed professional . somewhat unexpectedly , give the venue , I be ask to help judge a cake competition . member and my dentist will be pleased to know that I brush my tooth very well afterwards . access to NHS dentistry have be a problem for a very long time . when I move house in 2001 , there be no NHS dentist available and I travel two hour to Redcar to see the wonderful dentist Mr Dixon for many year until he retire . after that , there be no dentist at all . be we therefore short of dentist ? no , we be not . the Conservative Government increase the number of new trainee place and the number of new dentist , and although the population increase , there be still more per capita than in 2010 . as the Minister for Care have say , " the issue be not the number of dentist … but the paucity of dentist who be do NHS work . " — [ Official Report , 25 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 766 . ] I encourage the Minister for Secondary Care to consider more dental place , because we see that one in 15 of the youngster who want to become a dentist be turn away and , as such , they go overseas to train or train to do something else . will she commit to a dental school not just in Norwich , but in other underserved area , such as Lincoln ? the main problem , as many have identify , be the 2006 contract with the UDA band for procedure , and there be several issue with that . first , the amount vary between practice base on historical volume datum ; secondly , there be a disincentive to treat new or high - need patient ; and thirdly , the UDA simply do not cover all the cost . the Conservatives improve that a little bit , iron out some of the bizarre UDA contract term and set a new , high floor for minimum uda . yet there be much more to do , as we have hear today , to reform it completely . how be the Government get on with that ? will the Minister give we an update , please ? as the Public Accounts Committee note , " nhse and dhsc do not yet know what that reform might look like or to what timescale it can be deliver " , beyond a vague assertion that some reform be imminent . will the hon . Lady give way on that point ? I will not because there be not much time at all . I meet Eddie Crouch from the BDA recently , who talk about the national insurance cost . before today ' s announce pay rise , dental practice be face a 9 . 5 % increase in staff cost , again push more of they far to private practice . will the Minister ask the Chancellor to exempt NHS dentist from the national insurance contribution rise ? there have also be discussion about compelling dentist to do a proportion of their work in the NHS , either by compelling dentist who be newly train or by incentivise with the use of student loan repayment . have the Government consider that ? we have many overseas train dentist — some be british student who be train overseas , some be foreign national — but the overseas registration exam have 2 , 000 people on its waiting list . somewhat bizarrely , those who pass can work in the private sector , but not in the NHS without supervision . that seem somewhat incoherent . do the Government have confidence in the exam or not ? it be illogical to allow a person to practise as a private dentist but not in the NHS . it be also a clear disincentive to NHS practice . what good discussion have the Government have with the General Dental Council about this issue ? my right hon . friend the Member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) have repeatedly raise the issue of ukrainian dentist . there be 200 Ukrainians dentist in the UK . why not assess they and allow they to work ? it be well for they and for we . dentist form part of a wide team of hygienist , nurse , technician and therapist . what be the Government do to help people in each of those role practise at the top of their skill range to provide great dental care ? what be the Government do to support rural area since they cancel the mobile dental van ? what be they do to ensure they deliver the 700 , 000 promise appointment a year , since they have deliver hardly any of they so far ? will the hon . member give way ? I will not give way because there be very little time . it have be clear today that the NHS be not fit for purpose when it come to dentistry . the Government need to get grip of this , and soon . I thank the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) ; I could not have ask for a well set - up . I pay great tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) . this be an issue she have pursue for some time , and I be grateful for her secure this important debate . I know many more member would have like to speak . I will not take any intervention in the short time I have to respond because I want to address some of the question raise . this issue continue to be a matter of great concern to Members and all our constituent . poor oral health can have a devastating effect on individual , as we have hear , impact their mental and physical health alike and , indeed , their opportunity for work , as my hon . friend the Member for Leigh and Atherton ( Jo Platt ) make clear . yet it be a largely preventable issue through good oral health hygiene and regular visit to a dentist . we inherit a broken NHS dental system , and our ambition be to rescue and restore NHS dentistry so that we deliver more NHS dental care to those who need it . fourteen year of neglect , cut and incompetence by the previous Government have leave NHS dentistry in a state of decay . that be simply unacceptable and need to change , which it will . as of March 2024 , more than 36 , 000 dentist be register with the General Dental Council in England , and yet less than 11 , 000 full - time equivalent dentist be work within the NHS . Lord Darzi say in his report : " there be enough dentist in England , just not enough dentist willing to do enough NHS work " . that be why this Government be prepared to take strong action . since come into office , we have make good progress on our plan for change . we have already take action to address the immediate need of patient in pain and require urgent dental care through our manifesto commitment to deliver an additional 700 , 000 urgent dental appointment per year . integrated care board start to deliver those appointment from April , and each area have be give expectation for delivery base on their local need . that point be note by my hon . friend the Members for Filton and Bradley Stoke ( Claire Hazelgrove ) and for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) , who campaign studiously in opposition and continue to bring this to the House . icb have return detailed plan for deliver against the expectation , and the Minister for Care be hold regular meeting with official in the Department and with NHS England to monitor and drive progress against those plan . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Gloucester ( Alex McIntyre ) for pursue the matter with his ICB — that be exactly the right thing to do . to have a truly effective dental system , we can not focus just on those already in pain . we must have a system that prioritise prevention , particularly for child — a point well make by my hon . friend the Members for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) , for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) and for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) . that be why we have invest over £ 11 million to roll out a national supervised toothbrushing programme for three to five year old . that will reach up to 600 , 000 child a year in the most deprived area of England . alongside that , we have launch an innovative partnership with Colgate - Palmolive , which be donate more than 23 million toothbrush and toothpaste over the next five year . that be incredible value for the taxpayer and a fantastic example of how business and Government can work together for public good . we have also take the decision to expand community water fluoridation across the north - east of England . that be the first expansion for decade and will bring benefit to an additional 1 . 6 million people in the region . our workforce be crucial , as we have hear this afternoon . a strong dentistry system need a strong workforce , and we recognise the incredible work that dentist and dental professional do . I pay tribute to Mr Dobranski mention by my hon . friend the Member for Leigh and Atherton — what amazing service . I also mention my own dentist Aidan Moran , who have be see I for the good part of three decade . a central part of our 10 - year health plan will be our workforce and how to make sure that we train and provide the staff , technology and infrastructure the NHS need to care for patient across our community — a point well make by my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) . we will publish a refreshed workforce plan to make sure the NHS have the right people in the right place with the right skill to deliver the care that people need . as my hon . friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) highlight , we be all sadly familiar with the term " dental desert " to describe part of the country where access be especially difficult . we be continue to support integrate care board through the golden hello scheme , but of course dentist be only part of the team ; dental therapist , hygienist , nurse and technician all play a vital role , and we need to make the NHS a well place to work for all of they . we be commit to fundamental reform of the dental contract . it could have be do soon ; it could have be do at any point over the last 14 year by the coalition or the Tories , but they leave it for we to do . it will take time , but I assure everyone here that development of these proposal be under way . we continue to work with the British Dental Association and other representative to deliver our share ambition for dentistry . my hon . friend the Minister for Care meet the BDA recently and they have a productive relationship . in the spirit of honesty , let I be clear : there be no perfect payment model , and any change to the complex dental system must be carefully consider , so that we deliver genuine improvement for patient and the profession . it be an immense challenge . there be no quick fix and no easy answer , but people across the country deserve well access , and we be determined to make that happen . we know we must deal with the immediate crisis . that be why we will deliver 700 , 000 extra appointment each year , get more dentist into the community that need they the most , and make sure that everyone who need an NHS dentist can get one . nhs dentistry will not be rescue overnight . it will take time , investment and reform , but improve access to NHS dentistry be key to our mission to get the NHS back on its foot and fit for the future . I be grateful for the number of Members who participate in the debate , and can only apologise to those who be not able to get in or whose time to speak be shorten . I thank the Minister for her comprehensive response . it be clear that we have some way to go before we get the sort of service that people across the country , in all our constituency , deserve , but I be confident that she will take this forward , have hear all the comment and suggestion make this afternoon . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider access to NHS dentistry . Diego Garcia Military Base with permission , Mr Speaker , I wish to make a statement on the Diego Garcia military base . for more than 50 year , the joint UK - US military base on Diego Garcia have be a launchpad to defeat terrorist , to prevent threat to our nation , and to protect our economic security . this base keep Britain secure at home and strong abroad . this afternoon , the Prime Minister have sign a treaty with Prime Minister Ramgoolam of Mauritius that guarantee full continued UK control of Diego Garcia for the next 99 year and beyond . I pay tribute to the UK ' s negotiator , to the team from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Ministry of Defence who support they , and to the Mauritian official who work for two and a half year to reach this agreement . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have today lay in the House the full treaty text and his formal exchange of letter with the Foreign Minister of Mauritius that confirm the agreement and the financial arrangement between our two country . a Bill will be introduce soon . there have be a great deal of misinformation about this treaty , much of it fuel by the Conservative party , but the simple truth be that our national security rest on secure a deal that protect the operational sovereignty of this vital military installation . by sign this treaty on our term , the Prime Minister have ensure that the UK retain full control of Diego Garcia throughout the next century and beyond . it be a deal strike in the national interest and a deal that make Britons today and generation to come safe and more secure . the importance of Diego Garcia can not be overstate . some of the operation on our joint UK - US base be in the public domain ; most , by necessity , be not . but all the work conduct from Diego Garcia play a crucial role in protect our nation , our armed force and our trade route . Diego Garcia be unique . we do thing there that we simply could not do anywhere else . its airfield allow for strike operation and rapid deployment to the middle east , east Africa and south Asia . its deep - water port support mission from nuclear - power submarine to our carrier strike group . it host surveillance station that disrupt terrorist attack , protect satellite and provide global intelligence capability , and it project UK - US military power in the Indo - Pacific , to reinforce regional stability and security . America be our close security ally , and continue use of this base be fundamental to maintain the special strength of that relationship . in fact , Diego Garcia be our nation ' s most significant contribution to the UK - US security partnership that have keep we safe for nearly 80 year . as I have say , this be a joint military base , and almost every operation conduct from it be do in partnership with the US . that be why the treaty have the full - throate support of the US Secretary of State , Marco Rubio , who have say this afternoon : " this agreement secure the long - term , stable , and effective operation of the joint u . s . - UK military facility at Diego Garcia , which be critical to regional and global security . " President Trump himself have describe this as " very long - term " and " very strong " . Diego Garcia also strengthen Britain ' s economic security . over one third of the world ' s bulk cargo traffic and two third of global oil shipment be transport through the indian ocean . our constant presence in these water serve to safeguard trade route , keep down the price of food and energy for Britons here at home . Diego Garcia be also the permanent location of critical comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty monitoring equipment — a network that watch every moment of every day for evidence of nuclear testing , to hold nuclear and would - be nuclear power to account . Diego Garcia be one of just four location in the world to operate ground station antennae for the global positioning system , which everyone from astronaut to motorist and our military rely on to navigate . quite simply , the loss of the Diego Garcia military base would be unthinkable . and yet , without action — without this deal — within week we could face lose legal ruling , and within just a few year the base would become inoperable . some have suggest simply ignore international legal decision , but this be not just about international law ; this be about the direct impact of law on our ability to control and operate this base . ruling against we would mean we could not prevent hostile nation from set up installation around Diego Garcia , on the outer island , or carry out joint exercise near the base . no deal would mean we could not guarantee the safe berth of our sub , patrol the water around the base , control the airspace directly above or protect the integrity of our communication system . such development would deeply damage the security interest of the UK and our ally . it would be a dereliction of the first duty of Government . agree this treaty now on our term mean that the UK retain full control over Diego Garcia now and for the next century . we have lay before the House the full treaty and the associate costing . those on the Conservative Front Bench will see how we have toughen the term of the deal they be do so it do now guarantee the UK ' s national interest and national security . at a cost of less than 0 . 2 % of the annual defence budget we have secure unrestricted access to , and use of , the base , as well as control over movement of all person and all good on the base and control of all communication and electronic system . nothing can be build within a 24 nautical - mile buffer zone without our say so , and we have secure an effective veto on all development in the Chagos archipelago , and a strict ban will be impose on foreign security force operate on the outer island — all provision that be not in the draft agreement that have be negotiate by the Conservative party before the election . I just say to the party opposite that anyone who would abandon this deal would abandon the base . they would weaken the security of the british people and weaken the strength of the british armed force . by sign this deal , the british flag will fly over the Diego Garcia base well into the next century . by sign this deal , the relationship with our close security ally will be strengthen . by sign this deal , our capacity to deter our adversary and defend UK interest be secure for generation to come . as the world become more dangerous , Diego Garcia become more important . this government will never compromise on our national security . with this deal , we have make Britain more secure at home and strong abroad . I call the shadow Secretary of State . 5 . 6 pm I be grateful to the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . before I go into the detail , however , I wish to place two important point on the record . first , it be beneath contempt for the Prime Minister in his press conference to state that those who oppose this deal be on the side of Russia and China . I be intensely proud of the role that my party have play in support Ukraine — I have wear this badge of the ukrainian flag every day . I and many of my colleague have be sanction by Russia and China and passionately believe that we must stand up to they . indeed , that be one of the reason we oppose this deal . let we not forget that only last week Mauritius agree to deepen maritime co - operation with Russia , and this week China say that it want to deepen its strategic partnership with Mauritius and that that country be well place with strategic advantage . this be a democracy : if we as elect parliamentarian choose to take a different view on this issue and vote against the deal , that do not make we pro - russian or pro - chinese . vote against this deal do not make we traitor to this country ; it make we patriot . secondly , the Secretary of State and his Defence Ministers have say 26 time on the Floor of the House that the urgently need strategic defence review would be deliver by the spring , but he have break that promise . here we be , at literally at the last sit moment of this spring , and instead of the SDR he have come to the House to announce a total , abject surrender of our territory and a fundamental betrayal of the UK ' s national interest . the Government be not surrender british sovereign territory because of military defeat , or because of a bind legal verdict , but wilfully due to a total failure to take a stand and fight for Britain ' s interest on the world stage — a complete and utter negotiating failure . yes , it be true that we hold talk with the Mauritians when in government , but we never sign a deal . why ? because we fundamentally oppose the idea of spend billion of pound on a surrender tax to lease back land that we currently own freehold . and it be billion of pound . will the Secretary of State confirm that the deal will cost £ 1 billion over the next five year ? when the Prime Minister recently give a statement to the House about defence spending , he use the cash figure to state by how much spending would rise . will the Secretary of State confirm that , on the same basis , this deal will cost UK taxpayer over £ 10 billion ? will he confirm definitively how much of that cost will come from the Ministry of Defence budget ? Mr Speaker , you will be interested to hear that , on military operation , the treaty confirm that we must " expeditiously inform Mauritius of any armed attack on a third state directly emanate from the Base on Diego Garcia . " will the Secretary of State confirm that that mean we would need to tell Mauritius if the base be to be use to launch strike against Iran or its proxy ? what guarantee have he receive that Mauritius would not tell potential adversary ? as we all know , the key issue be that the Government fear a bind legal judgment . [ interruption . ] they be follow the legal advice to act definitively to our detriment , entirely on the basis of hypothetical risk that have not yet materialise and that we could challenge , and that be part of a pattern . on Monday , with the EU defence pact , the Secretary of State admit that he have secure only " potential participation " in the rearmament fund , but despite no guarantee of hard cash for defence , the Government have already give up our sovereign fishing ground for over a decade . yesterday , the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland refuse to explain why this Government fail to appeal the legal decision that now threaten our veteran with a new era of lawfare for the crime of serve this nation and keep we safe all those year ago . and today , with Chagos , once again the Government have prioritise heed the most pessimistic legal advice , even though we have expose the fact that fear of bind threat from the International Telecommunication Union or the United Nations convention on the law of the sea be overblown . as the hon . member for Crawley ( Peter Lamb ) , a Labour Back Bencher , say early , we be all " get real tired of this ' the court have settle it ' line of argument " . it be not so much a case of " no surrender " , as " yes , surrender " every single time , always listen to the lawyer instead of our national interest , even if that mean surrender our veteran , our fishing ground and the Chagos island — [ interruption . ] may I suggest they change the lyric of their Labour party song , because we all know that they will keep the white flag fly here ? order . I do not want to interrupt , but Mr Gemmell , you be not be helpful to your cause . it be the bad day to be throw out , so please , I want to hear no more from you — it have be continuous . perhaps the hon . Gentleman be expect to hear the strategic defence review , as all of we be , give the Government ' s multiple promise . finally , the chagossian community have be shamefully sideline by this Government from start to finish , with only tick - box engagement by junior Ministers . be it not the case that the treaty offer no protection to the Chagossians whatsoever ? when Labour negotiate , Britain lose . the Government should not be surrender strategically vital sovereign territory , especially when we face such threat , and they certainly should not be pay billion for the privilege . we would abandon this deal , but we would never abandon the Chagos island . this be a bad deal for Britain and we will do everything possible to oppose it . I regret the tone that the hon . Gentleman have strike this evening — [ interruption . ] the Prime Minister be make a simple point : if the base go , the country that benefit — the country that want to see the base go and the deal fail — be China , Russia and Iran . quite simply , he be ask whose side of the argument — be we on ? yes , whose side be you on ? [ interruption . ] frankly , if you do not back the deal , you do not back the base . shameful . order . I will decide what be and be not shameful . I be go to say this once and for all : Mr Cartlidge , you have be push and push for quite a while . emotion be run high , but I do not want a continuous barracking and that level of noise come from you . you should be set a good example as the shadow Secretary of State , keep calm and be effective , not bawl . quite simply , if you do not back the deal , you can not back the base . there be no viable alternative option than this deal . the senior military figure who be part of the treaty signing this afternoon , General Sir Jim Hockenhull , confirm that publicly . the shadow Defence Secretary know that — he be a Defence Minister until the last election . he know that that be the advice he and the previous Government be give . even the spokesperson for his party ' s leader admit in February that a deal be need . Politico ' s " Playbook " report : " a spokesperson for Badenoch insist she understand negotiation over the island be need due to the international legal position . " that be the job that we have do . the Conservatives concede the principle that negotiation be necessary and a deal be require to safeguard the long - term protection and control of this base ; they conduct 11 round of negotiation before the last election . the hon . Gentleman talk about this be part of a pattern . the previous Government fail to deliver a trade deal with India , and we do it . they fail to deliver a trade deal with the US , and we do it . they fail to safeguard Diego Garcia , and we have do it . we pick up those negotiation and strengthen the defence protection for the UK , and we do the deal today . the hon . Gentleman ask I about the money . once again , he be not just a Defence Minister , but also a Treasury Minister before the last election — in fact , he be Exchequer Secretary when the negotiation first kick off . he know that the Government Actuary tell we that the full accounting cost of this deal over the 99 year be £ 3 . 4 billion . that be the figure report and lay before the House today . the hon . Gentleman will know that there be a long - establish method — use under our government , his Government and the previous Government — for account for long - term project , like this base , the nuclear commission programme , big infrastructure project and pension liability . the fact for I , as Defence Secretary , be that the cost of this deal be less than 0 . 2 % of the annual defence budget ; that this be an essential deal for our national security that will ensure Britain be well equip to face down the rise threat we face ; and that our armed force be strong and safe because of the deal do today . the hon . Gentleman ask I about the Chagossians . we have be concern , since we be elect just 10 month ago , to restore good communication and well relation with a wide range of chagossian group . the Foreign Office Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , have meet they regularly , and he and my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary meet they this morning . the negotiation , however , be between the Mauritian Government and the UK Government , just as they be under the previous Government . we have work to ensure that the agreement reflect the importance that Chagossians attach to the island , so we will finance a new £ 40 million trust fund for Mauritius to support the chagossian community . I will conclude where I start . I say to the shadow Defence Secretary : we have work together on a cross - party basis on Ukraine , and we have offer he and his party ' s leader security briefing on any of the big issue that we face . this deal be in the national security interest . that be why , when we be in opposition , we back his government when they set out to try to negotiate that deal , just as we back his government when he lead the UK ' s support for Ukraine . when he look at the treaty , consider that there be no alternative and recognise that this be a tough deal that be well for our base , well for our force and well for protect our british people in this country , I hope that he will back it . in the ' 60 and ' 70 , Labour and conservative Governments remove the chagossian people from their island in the interest of national security . in response to write question , the Foreign Office have confirm that many certainty that would be require for chagossian to return to the island have not be secure as a part of this deal — once more ban they in the name of national security . what should I tell my chagossian constituent when they ask about the moral basis on which the UK be once again ignore their right to self - determination while we fight for it in Ukraine for Ukrainians ? on what basis can member of british overseas territory feel any certainty that they will retain possession of their island in the event that our national security interest be suddenly pique ? I have know my hon . friend for a long time , and he have be a loud and strong voice for Chagossians in this country . I hope he will recognise , first , that this have be a negotiation that the British Government have conduct with the Mauritian Government . I hope he will also recognise and respect the fact that my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary and the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth , have try to set a new tone in relationship and communication with the range of chagossian group in this country . finally , I hope he will recognise that that range of chagossian group include a range of chagossian view , some of which support this deal and see the need for it . I trust he will be strong in advocate for the use of the trust fund and the programme we will put in place to help the chagossian people . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . liberal Democrats support the UK comply with international law , but the process for agree this deal have be more than a little bit bumpy . while the Conservatives have feign anger , border on hysteria at time , despite it be their Foreign Secretary who first signal the UK ' s intention to secure an agreement , this Government have fail consistently to provide any clarity on the progress of the deal . we do not need a running commentary , but we do need to know that public money be be use wisely . it be also clear that the Government be prepared to give Donald Trump the ultimate veto over any agreement , without regard for the priority of Chagossians themselves . as the deal have now be reach , can the Secretary of State confirm what issue chagossian raise during their meeting with Ministers , and how the Government have respond to ensure their voice and issue have be address in this deal ? in attempt yesterday to humiliate South Africa ' s President Cyril Ramaphosa , President Trump prove once again his instinct as unreliable and an unpredictable bully . have now confirm this deal on a share UK - US asset , how confident be the Secretary of State that Diego Garcia will not be use by this White House to advance foreign policy objective that we deem contrary to our principle and interest ? hard - work family around the country will rightly be question why the Government be reportedly willing to negotiate such significant sum pay to Mauritius at a time when the personal independence payment be be severely scale back . will the Secretary of State put on record today the propose schedule of payment as they relate to the deal , and when it be expect that that schedule will commence ? as the Government have previously confirm , the treaty must come before the House for scrutiny , especially give its importance to our national security and its implication for the Exchequer . I hope this set a valuable precedent that could be apply to future trade deal , for instance , so can the Secretary of State confirm when this House will have an opportunity to scrutinise the propose deal , as well as a chance to vote on its ratification ? the answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s question be that from this point , this House have the full opportunity to scrutinise the deal . that be why my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary have place the full text of the treaty before this House , together with the financial arrangement . the hon . Gentleman say that the negotiator have not be give a run commentary , but he also say that he do not want a run commentary because he respect the fact that in any negotiation , there have to be a private space in which discussion can take place . I have say consistently that when the treaty be ready and put before the House , the full financial information will come alongside it . that have happen today . the proper scrutiny by this House begin today , and when the Bill be publish soon , the hon . Gentleman will be able to scrutinise that , too . on the question of the Chagossians , we will provide £ 40 million so that the Mauritians can set up a new trust fund for those community . let I turn to the hon . Gentleman ' s question about the US . this treaty have be negotiate between and sign today by our Prime Minister and the Mauritian Prime Minister . it secure a vital defence and intelligence base for Britain , but , as I say in my statement , almost everything we do on this base be do jointly with the US , so of course we have keep the Americans inform and consult they . at no point have the US have a veto — this be our deal and our decision . I bring it to the House this afternoon because it be in our good national interest and our good security interest . rise — order . Mr Mayhew , do you have a comment to make ? indicate dissent . shake your head and make comment — that be certainly not the example I want to see when I be look to keep the House calm . I do not need the backchat ; that have be go on for a while . the Conservatives start negotiation on handing over the Chagos island because they understand the national security implication of not do a deal . indeed , they do 11 round of negotiation on this deal . now , with our close security partner — the Americans , the Canadians , the Australians and the New Zealanders — all welcome this deal , why be the Conservatives play politic with our national security ? I entirely agree with my hon . friend . he make a powerful point in a judicious way . the shadow Defence Secretary could learn a bit from he . both the Prime Minister — in his extensive press conference prior to the Secretary of State for Defence come to the House — and the Secretary of State have say on numerous occasion that this deal be the only way of protect the military operation on Diego Garcia . when I be Foreign Secretary , I do not see anything to make I agree that this be the only way of protect military operation on that base . the Defence Secretary suggest in his statement that a judgment could come within week that would undermine the operation of the base . from which bind legal authority do he fear that jurisdiction may come ? we know it be not the International Telecommunication Union or the International Court of Justice . who do he believe would prevent we from military operation on that island ? the right hon . Gentleman be a formidable and very senior figure in the previous Government . he be in the post of Foreign Secretary during the period when there be negotiation on this deal . by enter into the negotiation , his Government accept and concede the principle that a negotiate deal be the way to secure the full operational sovereignty of this base for the long term . the right hon . Gentleman may well not have be satisfied with the deal that his own people could have negotiate at the time , because when we pick up the negotiation , there be no agreement on an effective UK veto across the archipelago , which we have now ; there be no buffer zone accept in that agreement , which there be now ; there be no agreement in that text for 99 year , or the option of an extra 40 year , which we have get in there now ; and there be also not an agreement for Mauritius to take on responsibility for any migrant , but there be now . I hope that the right hon . Gentleman look at the new text of the treaty , and I hope he will back it when it come before the House . I rise to welcome this agreement , which safeguard a vital national security asset and cement the United Kingdom ' s role at the heart of global defence co - operation . let we be clear : this treaty be about protect Britain ' s ability to defend itself and its ally . Diego Garcia be not just a piece of land in the indian ocean , but the backbone of our joint operation with the United States and a linchpin of the UK ' s ability to project power , to deter threat and to ensure security in an increasingly unstable world . all our close ally — the US , Australia , New Zealand , Canada and India — support this deal . NATO support this deal . they understand what Diego Garcia represent : unmatched strategic certainty . will the Secretary of State please give we more information about how we will be protect the area around the island ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . our close ally take a close interest , and they can see that this treaty be the good way of securing — for the UK , for the US and for themselves — a vital base on which we can help both to project military power and to reinforce regional security . my hon . friend will see the 24 nautical mile buffer zone — an exclusion zone , if you like — that allow we to control the sea and the air . we would not be able to do that , increasingly , without the deal . she will see that sweep and an effective veto on any development across the archipelago to range of at least 100 nautical mile . she will also see the value of a deal that guarantee our full operational sovereignty and therefore prevent any undermining of our ability to use the electromagnetic spectrum . as I say in my statement , that be so crucial to the unique capability that this base and its operation offer to this country and to the United States . when a former Foreign Secretary ask a sit Defence Secretary for a direct answer as to which court would be able to make a bind judgment against we on this matter , he be entitle to a direct answer , so will the Secretary of State now give that direct answer ? there be a range of international legal challenge and ruling against we . the most proximate , and the most potentially serious , be the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea . my right hon . friend have set out that this deal , which be essential for our national security , will cost less than a quarter of 1 % of our national defence budget . will he also confirm that this deal cost far less than other base deal , such as France ' s deal with Djibouti , yet offer vastly superior strategic scale and value ? I can indeed , and my right hon . friend be right : this deal will cost less than 0 . 2 % of the defence budget . it compare very favourably with the € 85 million that the French pay for their Djibouti base , which by the way be right next to a chinese base . Diego Garcia be 15 time big than the french base in Djibouti and have an exclusion zone around it , which help to protect our operation and the intelligence service that we have there . my right hon . friend be right : this be a good investment for the future national security of this country . this morning , I be at the High Court to listen to the judgment . I be with a very large group of Chagossians , who tell I that they feel betrayed . they also feel that the United Kingdom be act in exactly the same high - handed , colonial - like manner that lead to their dislocation and displacement from the island in the 1960 . can those on the Government Front Bench assure we all that when this deal come back to the House , we be not go to be ask to vote for a new round of colonial practice that will far disadvantage the Chagossians ? of course we be not go to ask that . we deeply regret the way that the Chagossians be remove from the island . we have express that sentiment as a new Government since July . we have make provision in the treaty to support the chagossian community , but the hon . Gentleman will recognise that there be a wide range of view within the chagossian community and group . some of they see the value of this deal , and some of they support it . the important fact for we be that the legal challenge in the High Court demonstrate some of the legal difficulty that would continue to bedevil the operation of this base without the deal that our Prime Minister have sign today . I commend my right hon . friend for explain — in as much detail as he be able on the Floor of the House — why he believe that this be a necessary act , and I trust he to have the security of the nation as his top priority . however , element of the treaty can not be talk about , even at the point when this House may vote on it . there be only one Member of this House who have access to all area of government spending : the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) . do my right hon . friend agree that some area need deep scrutiny , and will he support our plan to have a scrutiny Committee that can examine sensitive issue , include this one ? my hon . friend know that I have have discussion with she and the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) about the capability of the House of Commons to scrutinise and hold to account the government — of whatever party — in area of necessarily highly secret and confidential activity . she know that I have a different view about how to deal with that challenge , but deal with it we must . the Secretary of State have cite UNCLOS — under pressure from my right hon . friend the Members for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) and for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) — as the reason for this expensive cave - in . I be familiar with UNCLOS , and although I be a layman and so be the Secretary of State , could he explain in lay term which part of UNCLOS be responsible for what have happen , because it be not clear to I and it will not be clear to my constituent and to his , who will be pay the bill for this ? the judgment of any international tribunal or court do not necessarily just apply to the UK ; they be take by other agency , other organisation and other nation . in particular , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister spell out this afternoon , if there be uncertainty or a bind finding against the UK about the sovereignty of Diego Garcia , our ability to protect , in particular and most immediately , the electromagnetic spectrum on which our sensor , radar , communication and intelligence function depend be compromise . that be the security assessment and that be the military view . that be why we have take this step , and recognise that the good and only way of safeguard the operational sovereignty — the total control and protection — of the Diego Garcia island base for the future be the deal we have strike this afternoon . I be alarm by the passion of Conservative Members for the Chagos island — because we care about they . will the hon . member let I finish ? I have on a number of occasion intervene on Conservative Members to ask they to name the Chagos island , and they have be unable to tell I that there be Diego Garcia , Peros Banhos , the Salomon island , the Egmont island — well , you have to write they down . I do not share the right hon . member ' s passion . similarly , the Leader of the opposition first tweet about the Chagos island in October 2024 . that be five year after the ICJ ruling and two year after negotiation start . do my right hon . friend agree that the Conservatives ' new - find passion for the Chagos island perhaps owe more to political opportunism than to any deeply hold conviction ? I do , indeed , and I have to say that I be relieve my hon . friend have not ask I to name all 50 - plus island in the archipelago . the Mauritians have never ever own the Chagos island . when they gain independence from the United Kingdom in the 1960 , the UK pay they million of pound to cede any future claim over the sovereignty of the Chagos island . the Defence Secretary have confirm the strategic importance of the Chagos island , and we all agree on that , but the truth be that this be the bad ever deal in history by this country . over 100 year we be pay , with inflation , over £ 40 billion to give away a strategically important security asset . the truth be , and I confirm it now , that when Reform win the next general election , we will rip up this deal — tear it up — and stop all future payment . it be a disgrace . that be total rubbish — not just the hon . member ' s figure , but his assertion . our close ally , which have take the close look at the deal we have negotiate , see this as the way we can secure the joint operation and the control of this base . through this deal , we can jointly guarantee that for the next century and beyond . we have go over the cost , and it be less than 0 . 2 % of the defence budget . for this , we get the security of be able to continue operate an intelligence and defence base do activity and operation that we simply could not do anywhere else . this be a good investment for Britain , and Britain be safe today because of the deal we have strike . the conservative party have a terrible record on defence , with abject failure after abject failure . I think we have see this afternoon that Conservative Members have not learn from those lesson . do the Secretary of State agree that in back this deal , with support from the US , NATO , five eye and some of our big ally in the Indo - Pacific region such as India and Australia , the Labour party be show that it care seriously about national security , will put the national interest first and , unlike the party opposite , will not make meaningless gesture to put our own party first ? I do indeed . this be a base that have save british life for over 50 year . it have save the life of people at home in this country , because it have be the launchpad from which we have defeat terrorist attack . it have also be the launchpad for protect and save the life of british force when they have be deploy to war zone around the world . this deal , which we sign today , mean we can continue to exercise the full control necessary to continue to do that for the century to come . may I , in all candour , suggest to the Government that have now introduce this new element — the UN convention on the law of the sea and , I presume , the associate International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea — as the decisive factor that might have create a bind ruling , it really be incumbent on the Government to set out in a statement exactly how it would have affect the electromagnetic spectrum or our ability to use it in Diego — [ interruption . ] the Foreign Secretary might just calm down for a minute . I just want a proper explanation . I make this forecast . to cut personal independence payment and winter fuel allowance to pay billion of pound for something that be already british sovereign territory — how be the Secretary of State go to explain that on the doorstep to all his party ' s voter ? I promise you , we will make sure that they never hear the end of it . the hon . Gentleman might just like to remember this and make the comparison : the total cost over the 99 year of the deal we have strike to protect this space and british control over it be less than the value of the personal protective equipment that be unusable and that be burn because the last Government buy it in the first year of the covid pandemic . the US support this deal . NATO support this deal . India support this deal . do the Secretary of State share my surprise that Opposition Members seem so intent on ignore our ally ? my hon . friend make a powerful point very succinctly . I hope this House have hear it and I hope the conservative party listen to it . the right hon . Gentleman know the regard I have for he and for the Foreign Secretary . he know , too , of my interest and involvement in national security matter . there be no debate across the House about the salience of Diego Garcia . it be absolutely critical to our national interest . the debate be about the legal advice . will he , in the interest of scrutiny , provide , where it do not compromise national security , all the information and advice give to he and previous Ministers on the subject of that legal advice ? we suspect that that advice could have be challenge , and I suspect that many previous holder of his office and other will have receive similar , if not the same , legal advice and resist it . this House will have plenty of opportunity to test and debate these issue , but the right hon . Gentleman might start by ask those of his right hon . friend who be in government at the time . they start negotiation and judge at the time that negotiation on the deal be necessary to safeguard the future of Diego Garcia and the full operational control of the base . I commend the Secretary of State for his calm and measured approach to this really serious topic . will he expand on the safeguard in the deal , in particular the 24 - mile nautical exclusion or buffer zone and the ban on foreign military presence , which guarantee full UK command of the base ? I remind Opposition colleague that it be important to lead and not follow , and to use sensible , measured language , not charge mistruth . the provision of the treaty , as my hon . friend will see from the full text , guarantee the right of the UK in the 24 - nautical mile zone immediately around the island and in the airspace above to patrol and control that airspace . if we see a succession of legal judgment that start to establish a mauritian claim to sovereignty , that would undermine and weaken our ability to conduct those patrol , control the sky and protect the base . under this deal , we will be pay billion of pound for the privilege of have our own territory take away from we . the Secretary of State talk about the threat to the base as if Mauritius , a country with no navy , be about to steam in or pick a fight with the United States . that be implausible . the whole House will have hear the Secretary of State try to dodge the question from the former Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , and , on be press , scramble around for a legal argument and come up with something totally novel and hazy . the truth be that our constituent be go to be pay billion so that the Prime Minister can bask in the warm glow of approval from his fellow human right lawyer . absolute rubbish . it be £ 3 . 4 billion over 99 year , which be less than 0 . 2 % of the annual defence budget . this be a good investment for a unique capability that have play an essential role in defeat terrorism and break up terrorist group , deploy british force , protect our trade route and monitor nuclear threat around the globe . this be an essential base . we run it jointly with the US , which be full square behind we — and I hope the hon . Gentleman ' s party will be the same . I thank the Secretary of State for set out very clearly why this be the right thing to do for the UK . could he share with the House any threat assessment that he have , indicate that without guarantee access to Diego Garcia — and " guarantee " be the key word — China and other country could attempt to expand their regional military presence , building installation close to the base ? of course China want to try to move in on the Chagos archipelago ; of course it want to try to set up operation or activity that would allow it to interfere or monitor what we do from the base . this deal help to protect the base and help to prevent that from happen . thank you , Mr Speaker — I mean it this time . the Secretary of State have assert from the Dispatch Box that it be the risk of an unclos judgment that be require this capitulation of sovereignty . can he therefore answer this specific question : be he aware of a single case that be live under UNCLOS at the moment against the United Kingdom ? within a few week , we expect ruling that will start to weaken our ability to control and maintain our full operational sovereignty over Diego Garcia ; within a few year , we expect that to be at a point where it compromise our ability to continue the operation that be so essential to protect people at home , as well as protect our force when they deploy around the world . national security decision and debate should be lead by fact , not political point scoring , as we have see today . do the Secretary of State agree that have the Conservatives perform some sort of miracle and stay in government at the election , they too would have sign this deal , and we would have support that in the interest of national security ? I do not want to speak for the Conservatives , but , clearly , they be try to negotiate a deal . they have have 11 round of negotiation . any Government elect in July would have be face with the challenge of how to secure this space for the long term . it be clear that that be their direction , and that they have concede that principle in government . I regret the fact that they be not consistent in pursue that principle , recognise the way that we have strengthen the deal and do the deal that they be unable to secure . I be concerned about the influence of foreign nation levy through the criminal court . if it be not too vague , I should like to read out a very brief quote : " a society grow great when old man plant tree in whose shade they shall never sit . " give that this land be always go to be ours and now it will be ours for only 99 more year , who will benefit from that shade in a century ? the british people and british force will benefit from that shade . they will continue to benefit from that shade beyond the 99 year if we choose as a nation at that point to exercise our first refusal to extend the deal for another 40 year . that be a provision that be not in the deal that the Conservatives negotiate . it be a provision that extend our ability to control this space for the long term , for our national security . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . as the Prime Minister confirm early today , the cost of this deal be slightly less than the average annual cost of just one aircraft carrier without the aircraft . do the Secretary of State agree that this be a price well worth pay to ensure our country ' s safety and security ? it be definitely a good investment for this country . it help protect our security at home . it help strengthen our force abroad . it help reinforce that very special security relationship that we have with our close ally , the United States . I hope the Defence Secretary be fully across the detail here . Annex 1 , paragraph 3 , sub - paragraph c state : " Mauritius and the United Kingdom shall jointly decide upon the management and use of the electromagnetic spectrum " in the Chagos Archipelago beyond Diego Garcia . give that Diego Garcia shall be represent by Mauritius at the International Telecommunication Union — as per Letter no . 1 on 22 May 2025 — how will control and management of the electromagnetic spectrum be reflect as per annex 1 , paragraph 1 , sub - paragraph b , clause iv ? and give the threat pose by chinese influence in the Indo - Pacific and the level of chinese development finance investment in Mauritius , what assessment have the Government make of future lack of co - operation from Mauritius on access to say electromagnetic spectrum ? I will have a word with my right hon . friend , the Chief Whip , and just let he know that the hon . Gentleman have make an early bid for membership of the Bill Committee . do the Secretary of State agree that it be tell that one of the many Tory Prime Ministers that we have over their 14 year in Government , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , say in 2023 that he want to conclude a deal soon . be it not the case that the bluster and the red face that we have see from the conservative party today be nothing more than the bad type of political hypocrisy ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend who have a quote that I have not manage to get , and I will ask he to pass it on to I . he make a very powerful point to this House and to the Conservative party , a number of whom serve under the right hon . Gentleman who be Prime Minister at the time . the Government ' s position appear to be predicate on a hypothetical judgment to a hypothetical claim . in this hypothetical scenario , why would the Government not simply appeal ? the jeopardy and the uncertainty over this space be put at risk security operation that be essential to we and our ally . we be not prepared to take that risk with national security . we have do a deal in order to secure for the long term the guarantee full operational continue control of Diego Garcia and that military base . America back the deal . Canada back the deal . Australia back the deal . New Zealand back the deal . our relationship with the five Eyes country be our most crucial intelligence relationship , so do the Secretary of State agree that it would have be a dereliction of duty to our country and those four country to have fail to do this deal ? well say , and I would add that India support the deal . those country , which be our staunch ally , be our strong supporter on this deal . the country that be our adversary , that do we harm and that want to be able to move into the part of the world of this archipelago do not want we to have the base and do not want the deal . so there be a question : whose side of the argument be you on ? I respect the expertise of the Defence Secretary , so I hope he can help I here . the ICJ say that it be a non - bind decision . the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea be the court that he be worried about . the country will wonder why he would not challenge this in the court , stand by it , and see what that process would look like . if he be worried he would lose , will he publish the documentation that show why he be advise that he would lose , so that the country can understand why he be not make that challenge ? if he fail in that challenge , he could appeal as well . to the public it look like we be just give into the deal without even use the court that we could legally use . the Chief Whip have a second volunteer for the Committee stage of this legislation ! there be an accumulation of legal challenge , and there be a serious risk of legal ruling . this be not just a matter of international law ; it be about the direct impact on the operation of this base that be essential to our national security . the risk that this pose put the future operation of the base in jeopardy , and no responsible Government can stand by and simply say , " we can not act " . no action be not an option , and that be why we strike the deal and sign the treaty today . Petition - Location of the Torbay and South Devon NHS out - of - hour Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention Services I rise to present a petition on behalf of the resident of South Devon concern the propose temporary co - location of the Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation trust ' s out - of - hour primary percutaneous coronary intervention service at the Royal Devon and Exeter hospital . this change would significantly increase travel time for patient suffer life - threaten cardiac emergency , cause deep concern in the community . many constituent have contact I fear delay to urgent care . quick access to treatment be critical in these situation , and this proposal could endanger life by reduce access . the petitioner therefore request that " the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure NHS Devon reconsider the propose co - location and to ensure that all PPCI service , include out - of - hour , remain accessible within the local area . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the propose temporary co - location of the Torbay and South Devon NHS Foundation Trust ' s out - of - hour Primary Percutaneous Coronary Intervention ( PPCI ) service at the Royal Devon and Exeter Hospital will lead to increase travel time and potential delay in emergency cardiac treatment for resident in South Devon ; and far declare that the protection of timely , local access to urgent cardiac care be essential . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure NHS Devon reconsider the propose co - location and to ensure that all PPCI service , include out - of - hour , remain accessible within the local area . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003075 ] A66 Northern Trans - Pennine Project Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) it be a pleasure and a privilege to have secure the last Adjournment debate before recess , especially on an issue that be of great importance to my constituent , Cumbria and the wide region . I start with an apology to the Minister . recess be start and half our colleague have already set off to their constituency , and I have drag she in for the graveyard shift . I be sorry , but it be appreciate . we be rapidly approach completion of the spending review . have spend month communicate with official in National Highways , and along with my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) with Ministers in the Department for Transport and the Treasury , I view this as my last chance to help get the project over the line . in preparation for what be my first Adjournment debate , I note the last time that a politician with my surname speak in a pre - recess Adjournment debate . it be 24 year ago , and the then Speaker — perhaps set an unusual precedent — join in the debate . if you want to say some supportive word , Mr Speaker , I be sure that my constituent would be very pleased — although , I admit that the extent to which Speaker Martin stick to the topic of the debate in 2001 be debatable . the A66 northern trans - Pennine project be the north of England ' s large road project and , at a cost of £ 1 . 5 billion , it should come as no surprise to anyone that the new Government be review the business case . I will set out the importance of the project for my constituent and why it must go ahead . I know that the Minister will not preannounce from the Dispatch Box the outcome of the spending review , but I hope that she will confirm that the A66 project be in the running and have not be shelve , as be claim by a conservative politician on BBC television last week . that politician oversaw and leave a council on the brink of bankruptcy , and the irony of they now pontificate on the nation ' s finance be frankly bizarre . I take the financial position inherit from the last government very seriously , and I applaud the Government ' s mission of secure sustained growth . the important thing for those of we in the rural north be that we see our fair share of that growth and the investment that enable it . the last decade have give we reason to worry . the Institute for Public Policy Research North have produce figure show that between 2010 and 2020 , the north miss out on £ 86 billion in transport investment compare with London — a lost decade that only leave we weak at a time when we need growth . last year the same think - tank calculate that total public spending on transport project in 2023 - 24 be £ 1 , 321 per person in London , which be more than double the £ 615 per person spend on the north . I therefore welcome the Government ' s renew focus on the north and the recent announcement of high investment in the north of England this year as part of Labour ' s plan for change . indeed , the Prime Minister have indicate that the Government will be spend more than double the money per head on local transport in the north than in the south this year . but I still remember the last Government ' s integrate rail plan for the north , which make not one mention of Cumbria . I see this project as a key enabler for deliver growth in my region . the project will see the upgrade of approximately 50 mile of the A66 between the M6 at Penrith and the A1 ( M ) at Scotch Corner , convert single carriageway section into dual carriageway and improve countless junction along the route . I feel obliged to offer some expectation management to my constituent , as not one mile of the road will be dualle in the Penrith and Solway constituency . the major benefit for the resident of Penrith will be the upgrade to the junction 40 of the M6 and the Kemplay roundabout . I can not count the number of time I have sit in traffic on those junction , alongside local resident fight through the commercial and tourist traffic , just try to go about their daily business , with tourist stick just at the beginning or end of their holiday in the Lake District national park or north Pennines , and the heavy good vehicle driver anxiously think about their tachograph . perhaps they be think about dinner and get home to their family , as I be sure some hon . member be now . some be simply travel down the m6 , possibly not even conscious that a bottleneck on an adjacent a road be the cause of their delay journey . the plan underpass just outside Penrith will separate the east - west A66 traffic from the north - south flow . that will reduce traffic volume by 55 % and provide major benefit for local people , include pedestrian and cyclist , improve access to Penrith itself and the facility and business around the roundabout . it will reduce delay and queue at the M6 junction 40 and will ensure that visitor have a much well start to their holiday , whether they be travel by car or take advantage of the local active travel network . there will be environmental benefit and economic benefit . we would feel as if the Government have prioritise the rural north , so often neglect by central Government . this project will improve connection between Cumbria , North Yorkshire , the Tees Valley , Tyne and Wear , and beyond . it be the most direct route between the central belt of Scotland and the eastern side of England . it connect city such as Glasgow and Edinburgh with Leeds , Sheffield and Norwich , if those journey be make by road . safety have be a huge concern along the route and there have be a number of avoidable death over the last few year . the junction of particular concern be in the Richmond and Northallerton and the Westmorland and Lonsdale constituency , and I know that the hon . member represent those area have raise their concern with Ministers . however , the wide route be regularly use by my constituent and I be acutely aware of the risk that stretch of the road present . adjacent to the Kemplay roundabout be the Cumbria fire and police headquarters , with operational element at both . in the summer , it can take 45 minute for non - emergency vehicle to travel 100 metre . for our emergency service , that congestion present a significant issue , and I know that Dave Allen , Cumbria ' s police , fire and crime commissioner , fully support the project not only to improve emergency vehicle access , but to make the A66 safe . after my election in July , I meet National Highways to discuss the scheme , know that this Government face difficult choice . I want reassurance that the business case be up to date and would withstand scrutiny . the primary economic benefit come from travel time saving that will be realise by business user . the A66 be an important route for freight traffic , with hgv comprise a quarter of the vehicle on the route , and the fact that that be more than double the national average highlight the importance of the route for business . the regular closure on the exist route present significant disruption for business - to - business transaction , with many of my constituency business directly affect . during discussion with National Highways , it become apparent that exist Treasury Green Book guidance prevent a distinction be make in the economic case between general road user and business vehicle . that mean that the cost - benefit ratio do not distinguish between an individual make a social trip in a car and an HGV deliver vital component to a factory . for a road project so important to business , that be a disaster . I understand that new guidance be on the way , but not in time for it to be use to appraise this project in this spending review . that limit the ability for the economic case to tell the true story , so effort have be put in to reflect that within the strategic case . however , that still leave I uncomfortable that the true benefit of the scheme be not fully articulated . as frustrated as I be , the economic case as it stand still predict hundred of million of pound of benefit , primarily through cost efficiency and save to business , and even additional tax revenue through employment . the project be vital for Cumbria . it will reduce road traffic accident and death on the single - carriage section of the route . it will improve strategic regional and national connectivity , particularly for haulier — heavy good vehicle , which account for a quarter of all traffic on the road , be double the national average . it will reduce delay and queue during busy period and improve the performance of key junction such as the A66 / A6 junction and m6 junction 40 . it might even occasionally stop I miss the train . I appeal to Ministers to support this project . let we come to Minister Greenwood , even though I have be tempt to say that I hope it be not another 22 year before we discuss this again with a Campbell - Savours . I begin by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and Solway ( Markus Campbell - Savours ) on secure today ' s debate on the A66 northern trans - Pennine project , and I thank he for his powerful argument . it have be some time since I travel on the A66 , which tell I that it be time for a trip to the Lake district sometime soon — although I will be rather wary now about how much time to allow for that journey . my hon . friend have be an incredibly determined campaigner for this project , which run through part of his constituency . as he acknowledge , we have already meet to discuss the importance of the project to the region , and indeed its wide national significance . he have write to I to reiterate its value to business user , include freight , and highlight the need to address safety concern , which I take very seriously , as do the Secretary of State . although the Chamber be rather empty this evening , I be pleased to take the opportunity to thank other right hon . and hon . member with constituency along the route , include my hon . friend the Members for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) and for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) , for their correspondence and for our meeting to discuss their aspiration for the A66 . I can assure my hon . friend the Member for Penrith and Solway and other that they have convince Ministers of the overwhelming local support for this important project . rebuild Britain mean modernise our transport infrastructure . this government will maintain and renew our road network to ensure that it serve all user , remain safe and tackle congestion . however , as my hon . Friend acknowledge , the financial inheritance that this Government receive be extremely challenging . community up and down the country have be give hope for new transport infrastructure with no plan and no fund to deliver they . we will not repeat that mistake . this government will rebuild our economic foundation while restore transparency and public trust . that be why on 30 July 2024 the Chancellor of the Exchequer announce a multi - year spending review . but let I be absolutely clear : the A66 project be be consider as part of the second phase , which will conclude on 11 June . a decision on the A66 can not be take separately from that process , and whatever have be claim by other local politician , I can assure my hon . friend that the project have not be shelve . the spending review will support the development of our new long - term strategy for transport , develop a modern and integrated network with people at its heart . within the north of England , the A66 link between the M6 at Penrith and the A1 ( M ) at Scotch Corner be a key artery in our strategic road network , provide a vital east - west connection across the Pennines . it link port on the east coast of England with north - west England , southern Scotland and ferry link to Northern Ireland . the near alternative east - west motorway be the M62 , which be much far south , and , look northward , the m8 in Scotland . today the A66 between the M6 and the A1 ( M ) be approximately 50 mile long and a mixture of single and dual carriageway . approximately half of the route have already be dualle , leave six section of single carriageway to be upgrade . National Highways note that collision rate on the single carriageway section tend to be high than on the dualle section and , tragically , a number of life have be lose on the route in recent year . More than 22 % of the vehicle on the route be good vehicle , which be approximately twice the average proportion of such vehicle on the strategic road network as a whole . as my hon . friend know , the A66 be a vital link for people live along the route , enable they to reach shop , service and employment in nearby town . for many live along the route , there be no alternative rail connection . upgrade the trans - Pennine A66 would enable traffic to flow more quickly . the scheme would make the A66 a more viable option for freight operator as they move good across the country , aid economic growth . as my hon . Friend note , the economic case for the scheme could be improve if high value for the freight value of time be include in the transport analysis guidance . we aim to do that in the future , but I be pleased to be able to assure he that the economic assessment of this project for spend review deliberation include a sensitivity test to show the impact of use high value for freight value of time . dualle the remain section would make the route more resilient when incident occur , as most collision would be confine to one carriageway , allow traffic to pass on the other — although we would of course prefer that there be no collision at all . my final point on the A66 northern trans - Pennine project be that National Highways estimate that the scheme could support the building of thousand of house and the creation of thousand of job as part of growth deal and local plan along the route . it could also support Carlisle ' s plan St Cuthbert ' s garden village — an ambitious proposal to provide 10 , 000 new home and create economic opportunity . until the conclusion of the spending review , the interim settlement be the framework for the £ 4 . 8 billion investment for National Highways for the current financial year . the investment include more than £ 3 billion for capital enhancement , include the A66 northern trans - Pennine scheme . this be a one - year settlement while we prepare to return to the road investment strategy settlement in a sustainable way . the A66 northern trans - Pennine project be be consider alongside other future road project as part of the spending review . until that conclude , the Department be not in a position to make a judgment on individual scheme , but I can assure my hon . friend that my Department be commit to put transport at the heart of this mission - drive Government . I be determined to ensure that we build the transport infrastructure need to drive economic growth and opportunity in every part of the country , include the rural north . I congratulate my hon . friend again on secure this debate , and thank he for the important contribution he have make . I hope that he be reassure that the Department fully appreciate the proposal ' s importance to his constituent , to people in other constituency along the route and to the wide country , and that the scheme be be consider carefully . I thank he again for this debate . question put and agree to . House adjourn .