Oral Answers to Questions Cabinet Office the Minister for the Cabinet Office be ask — Ministerial Code what recent assessment he have make of trend in the level of compliance with the ministerial code . what recent assessment he have make of trend in the level of compliance with the ministerial code . what recent assessment he have make of trend in the level of compliance with the ministerial code . the Prime Minister be responsible for the ministerial code , and be the ultimate judge of the standard of behaviour expect of Ministers , which be set out in that code . all Ministers be expect to uphold the principle of the code , as the Prime Minister have make clear . on 19 April , the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments write to the Deputy Prime Minister to report a breach of the rule by the former Prime Minister Boris Johnson in relation to a visit to Venezuela to meet President Maduro on behalf of the hedge fund Merlyn Advisors . be the Cabinet Office aware of the visit in advance , and do the Deputy Prime Minister — the Secretary of State — or official have a conversation with the Foreign Office about any tax - fund briefing that he may have receive ? the Government expect all former Ministers , include Prime Ministers , to abide by their obligation with regard to the business appointment rule set out in the ministerial code . the Cabinet Office be currently consider a letter on this matter from the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments , and will respond in due course . in addition to Boris Johnson ' s hedge fund lobbying in Venezuela there be his Daily Mail column , as well as his lettuce pm successor ' s contravention of the Radcliffe rule in betray royal confidence in her book . the Minister have say that the Prime Minister be judge and jury in respect of the code . be it not time for a more independent system , such as Labour ' s propose ethic and integrity commission ? if the Government will not do that , can they not just call a general election now ? the seven principle on public life be very clear , and I have set out the Prime Minister ' s expectation , but let I draw the hon . Lady ' s attention to what be say by the Committee on Standards in Public Life in 2021 , namely , that a single commission would " come with considerable disadvantage " and that " the concentration of such power to a body … do not sit well in our democratic system " . it be fascinating to see four time as many Ministers as Conservative Back Benchers in the Chamber today . paragraph 1 ( 3 ) ( d ) of the ministerial code say : " minister should be as open as possible with Parliament and the public " , and paragraph 1 ( 3 ) ( f ) say : " minister must ensure that no conflict arise , or appear to arise " . why , then , be the Government still refuse to publish the detail of the financial interest that the Foreign Secretary have before he be appoint to the House of Lords , why be they still refuse — despite numerous request from newspaper and other — to publish the fact of whether or not the Foreign Secretary have have to recuse himself from certain element of his job because of his previous involvement with the chinese state , and why be they point - blank refusing to say which part of his job he be recuse from ? accord to the advice of the Independent Adviser on Ministers ' interest , last publish on 14 December 2023 , follow a previous publication on 17 July which update advice issue on 19 April , the process of ministerial engagement with the register be ongoing , and be update on an ongoing basis . when minister be appoint , they fill in an extensive form which their permanent secretary then review , and there be a continuous process of update that as interest evolve . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in a letter to I , the Deputy Prime Minister say of Mr Johnson ' s recent trip to Venezuela that he be " not act on behalf of the Government , and the trip be not fund by the Government . " in a write parliamentary answer to I , we be tell that Mr Johnson have only make a " courtesy call " to the british residence . last week , however , the chair of the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments make it clear that Mr Johnson be " in breach " of the Government ' s british appointment rule . we also know from Mr Johnson himself that he have be " extensively brief " by the embassy . when will the Government come clean about what have actually go on with Boris Johnson ' s Venezuela visit ? I explain in an early answer where we be in term of the Cabinet Office consider the letter from ACOBA . we do expect all Ministers , civil servant and special adviser to abide by those business appointment rule . they be contractual requirement for civil servant and be draw to the attention of Ministers by the ministerial code . as be announce in the Government ' s response last July to the report from the Committee on Standards on Public Life , Mr Boardman ' s review and the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , we be continue to consider method of strengthen the system and encourage compliance with those rule . as for the specific case that the right hon . Gentleman have raise , I have say that the Cabinet Office be due to respond to that letter . Cyber Threats to Public Institutions and Services what step his Department be take to protect public institution and service from cyber threat . what step his Department be take to protect public institution and service from cyber threat . the cyber threat face the United Kingdom be intensify . state and non - state actor have target our critical national infrastructure , our business and even our democratic institution . the Government have introduce a new national cyber strategy , which take a whole - of - society approach . we have set out high standard of cyber - protection for our critical industry and , with the help of our world - lead agency , we be offer advice to institution , business and individual on protect themselves online . Cyber - security be crucial not only to our defence sector but to other , include finance , energy and retail . sector leader have raise fear about the future supply of cyber professional . there be some brilliant work take place at Ebbw Vale College in my constituency — pioneer stuff be go on around cyber - security — but can the Deputy Prime Minister say what be be do to onshore these critical role to protect our economy from attack by hostile actor ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise this issue . we have tremendous strength in national cyber - security , and there be many relevant institution around the country . I have visit university in Wales that be churn out brilliant graduate . we need to do more at secondary school level to encourage more child to get involve in cyber - security , because the demand be only go to increase in the month and year ahead , and I have be engage with the Education Secretary on precisely this point . we have all see in recent week how weak cyber - security can compromise elect representative and lead to the extraction of often compromise information . could the Minister update the House on what he be do to provide support and technology specifically to elect representative to make sure that this do not happen in the future ? this be an important issue , which be why we establish the National Cyber Security Centre . it bring together Government Communications Headquarters expertise with that of the Cabinet Office , the Foreign Office and other . through the National Cyber Security Centre , we work with the House authority and other to make sure that they have sufficient and appropriate advice , but also to advise on equipment and the general security of Members of Parliament . if they have concern about their cyber - security , I would urge they either to get in contact directly with the National Security Cyber Centre or to do so through the relevant House authority . I call the shadow Minister . the Secretary of State be right to say that the threat be intensify . late last year , the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy urge the Government to offer more active support on cyber - security to local authority . he may be aware that last month my own local authority , Leicester City Council , suffer a hugely sophisticated attack , which disrupt many local authority service and have hugely inconvenience many of my constituent , who rely on those service . give that we be see more of these ransomware group attack on public institution across the world and that he say , rightly , that the threat be intensify , what urgent support and guidance be he offer local council , such as mine in Leicester ? specifically in relation to the hon . Gentleman ' s local authority , I have be brief by the National Cyber Security Centre on that incident . he be totally right to say it be a significant and serious incident , and we be work on remediation through the National Cyber Security Centre . to prevent this type of attack from happen in the first place , we invest £ 2 . 6 billion in the national cyber strategy , which be about improve cyber - resilience and reduce legacy technology . I have be quite open with the House in say that the threat be intensify because we see hostile state create environment in which cyber - criminal can flourish , both for their own benefit and for the benefit of those hostile state . we be work through our intelligence agency and the National Cyber Security Centre to continuously improve our performance . National Security what step his Department be take to strengthen national security . protect national security be the Government ' s first duty . on Tuesday , the Prime Minister announce a fully fund plan to increase our defence spending by £ 75 billion over the next six year . as part of this uplift , we will bring forward a national defence and resilience plan , build on the resilience framework and integrated review to respond to the evolve threat we face . we be bring our defence and civilian preparation together to reflect the interconnectedness of those threat . the Cabinet Office play a central role in this endeavour , co - ordinating strategy through Cobra , resilience directorate and the National Security Council . in the past week , three people in Germany have be arrest on suspicion of spy for China and two have be charge in the UK . this come on the back of the Intelligence and Security Committee report which conclude that the Government have no strategy or whole - system — whole - government — approach to deal with this serious threat . when be the Minister go to get a grip on this serious threat to our democracy from China ? I totally disagree with the hon . Gentleman ' s characterisation . we deal explicitly with this in both the integrated review and the integrated review refresh , which set out a co - ordinate approach and be clear about the threat we face from hostile state — Russia , North Korea , Iran and indeed China . we be very clear about the threat China pose to our economic security and our democratic institution , and that be why we have take a range of action , include for the first time directly attribute attack to China and impose sanction in respect of they . with local and national election on the horizon , it be vital that voter can have full confidence in the integrity of our electoral system . with that in mind , what assessment have the Department make of the risk pose by deepfake and misinformation in the upcoming election ? I have considerable concern about deepfake be use in the upcoming election . we have see hack and leak be use as a tactic by hostile state in previous election , and we have to take into account deepfake capability , particularly enhance by artificial intelligence . that be why we be develop our strategy through the Defending Democracy Taskforce and undertake exercise right now to enhance our capability . it be , however , a challenge to all citizen not necessarily to take image to be true on first sight , because of adversary ' enhance capability . female Veterans what step he be take to improve support for female veteran . the Office for Veterans ' Affairs have provide £ 445 , 000 for research into the live experience of woman veteran and for development of further support . with my hon . friend make valuable contribution , we be develop the Government ' s first woman ' s strategy , which will celebrate the success of woman veteran but also look at the specific challenge they face , so as to well address their need . I be one of the estimate 250 , 000 female veteran , and I have spend the last four year raise awareness of this hide community . I be pleased to have work with the Minister on establish the first female veteran strategy . I have be chair of the advisory board ; the evidence gathering have end and the recommendation have be make . will the Minister let I know whether the term , " female military sexual trauma " will be acknowledge and include , and the date on which the strategy will be publish ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who have be a passionate advocate of this cause . she be the first woman from the rank to be elect to this place , and she should be incredibly proud of all she have do over her many year of work on this issue . as I have say before from this Dispatch Box , I recognise the unique challenge around sexual trauma in the military — of course I do . the strategy will be publish before the summer recess . I know my hon . friend be wait for it , and I be determined to get it out before the recess . I be hopeful that it will meet all the demand and all the hurt in that community that have be unmet for too long . I have have the pleasure of meet many female veteran in my constituency and of work with fantastic organisation such as Woody ' s Lodge , the Royal British Legion , and of course Welsh Veterans Partnership . what be the Minister do to work with the Welsh Government and local authority across the whole of the UK to ensure that woman veteran get the support that be rightly be ask for ? we meet the devolved authority regularly to make sure that all our strategy be in sync . obviously , a lot of these policy area , whether health , housing or education , be devolve , but we be clear that , both nationally and internationally , we want the Office for Veterans ' affair to set the standard . we have great relationship internationally now in term of set the pace on that , and I want to make sure it be concomitant with what we be do with the devolved authority : we have regular meeting with the Welsh Government and the Scottish , and indeed we be go over to Northern Ireland again in two week . nomination for Honours : Scrutiny what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of his Department ' s process for scrutinise nomination for honour . what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of his Department ' s process for scrutinise nomination for honour . it look like the Member who table no . 10 be not out of bed . a validation process be carry out to assess the strength and credibility of each nomination . we protect the integrity of the honours system by carry out probity check with a number of Government Departments before the Prime Minister submit name to his Majesty the King for approval . the Prime Minister previously back call for Horizon victim and campaigner Alan Bates to receive an honour , yet his name be absent from the Prime Minister ' s surprise honours list last month . however , Russia - link Mohamed Mansour ' s name be on that list . what be it about the multi - millionaire , generous conservative party donor that attract the Prime Minister to the idea of give he a knighthood ? the gentleman whose name have just be mention be a very successful businessman and philanthropist , and I be sure those quality be very much in the Prime Minister ' s mind when he be put forward for an honour . extremely distinguished name from the world of artificial intelligence and the creative industry be also recognise for their contribution to our country . one . I advise the hon . gentleman to go back and check the list because , not for the first time in this House , he be wrong . the Prime Minister recently announce an extraordinary round of honour , which many describe as lack integrity and bring the system into disrepute . it include a donor who have donate £ 5 million to the Conservative party , and four conservative mp loyal to the Prime Minister . in the run - up to a general election that he be widely tip to lose , what could possibly be the justification for the Prime Minister announce and recommend a round of honour outside of the traditional King ' s birthday list ? order . it would have be easy if you have be here for the beginning of the question . stretch the question be test my patience and the patience of the Government Front Bench . I thank the hon . member for Slough for turn up . I refer he to the answer I give a few moment ago . veteran : cost of live what step he be take to support veteran with the cost of living . the Government have successfully reduce inflation by more than half , make the cost of live more affordable for veteran , along with every other resident of the UK . veteran in employment within six month of leave service be at an all - time high — 89 % — and our recently launch Operation Prosper employment pathway will help veteran and their family to secure well - pay job in key sector . here be some fact . veteran homelessness have rise by 14 % over the last year . seventeen per cent of veteran , and their family , be live in food insecure household . over 80 , 000 veteran be have to claim universal credit just to get by . despite the Minister ' s claim of make the UK the good place in the world to be a veteran , it isn ' t , be it ? the hon . Lady say , " here be some fact , " before read out a load of thing that be not correct . it do not change the fact of those situation . last Christmas , under a programme design by this government , not a single veteran sleep rough because of a lack of provision . the shadow Veterans Minister , the hon . member for Birmingham , Selly Oak ( Steve McCabe ) , have not even turn up to ask question this morning , so I will take no lesson from Labour on veteran . go into this election , veteran be deeply nervous about what labour ' s offer might be . again , these banal quote about statistic be not correct . this be not a game . these be serious people who deserve the nation ' s respect , and I encourage the Labour party to align with that . infected Blood Inquiry : Second Interim Report what progress he have make on consider the recommendation of the second interim report of the infected blood inquiry . in January , I appoint an expert group to provide technical advice on the inquiry ' s recommendation on compensation . the Government will provide an update on next step regard those recommendation as soon as possible follow the publication of the final report on 20 May . justice be long , long overdue on this issue . a constituent affect by this issue tell I what they have be through , which include a liver transplant , many antiviral regime , ongoing health impact and deal with the fact that many of their peer — the child they spend time with when they be grow up — be no long with we . there be simply no financial or political price high enough to cover the stress and impact on their mental wellbeing . this House have show its will on this issue , so why be we still wait and , importantly , when will people start to receive the compensation , give that on average one person die every four day as a result of this scandal ? the hon . Gentleman make absolutely the right point and I agree with his call for urgency . as I set out in my response to the urgent question a few day ago , my absolute priority be deliver this as quickly as possible . the legislation to set up the infected blood compensation authority be in the other place and will be debate next Tuesday . we announce on 17 April what we be do on interim payment to the estate of the deceased infected . further work be go on and I be engage with the community over the first 10 day of May — so before 20 May , when the report will be publish . his representation on urgency be hear by I and I be work on it as quickly as I can . I call the shadow Minister . the amendment that be table by my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) and pass by this House at the end of last year be to set up a compensation scheme within a strict time limit of three month . that time limit must remain in the Bill and victim need concrete action . will the Paymaster General tell we when the Treasury will set out its detailed costing for the scheme ? secondly , and most importantly , when can victim expect their final compensation payment ? the costing will be a responsibility of the Treasury , but a joint team between the Cabinet Office and the Treasury be work to give advice to the Prime Minister so that we can make decision in a timely way as soon as possible from 20 May . I be conscious of the fact that across all the different community of infected and affect as much clarity be need as possible . they have have to wait too long , so I be make sure that , as far as we can , when those final decision be make there will be not only a headline decision , but clarity on process thereafter . it be those detail I be work on now and I hope that a decision can be make as soon as possible from 20 May . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . have a child with a rare condition who continue to get sicker despite treatment be every parent ' s bad nightmare . recent revelation that child as young as three be immorally use as guinea pig and give infected blood be truly horrific . without payout of compensation , how can any parent have faith that the UK Government will ensure accountability and that they will take real responsibility for this scandal ? the hon . Lady make a powerful point . she refer to what have come out in the press in the past few week . I be anticipate that on 20 May Sir Brian Langstaff ' s final report will reveal in harrowing detail not only the allegation and what happen a long time ago , but the consequence , which have be profound and life - change for so many people in this country . I listen to she and the advice she give I after the last oral question , and I will be visit Scotland and work with the devolved administration to ensure that we have a United Kingdom approach . Armed Forces Veterans what step he be take to support armed force veteran . the Government continue to take unprecedented action to support those who serve we : through Operation Fortitude , we be end veteran ' rough sleeping ; through Operation Restore and Operation Courage , we be support their health and wellbeing ; and Operation Prosper be an employment pathway to help veteran secure high - value job . we be also plan to publish the UK ' s first draft veteran Bill , represent another step forward in our journey to make this the good country in the world in which to be a veteran . the Wincanton armed force breakfast club , hold at the Balsam centre in my constituency , offer veteran a place to catch up , where they can have peer support and enjoy a social , hearty breakfast . what effort be the Minister make to support community - focus initiative such as that for veteran across the UK ? I pay tribute to the Wincanton armed force and veteran breakfast club . like many breakfast club , include those in my own constituency , it do an amazing job bring together veteran and tackle isolation and loneliness , particularly among the old generation . I encourage all member of the House to visit . the club do not just happen , so I pay tribute to the volunteer and those who turn up every week to administrate they . those people do not just talk a good game on veteran ; they get in there , volunteer , spend their time and really care , so I pay tribute to all of they . today be Anzac Day , when we remember Australians and New Zealanders who give so much . in an increasingly dangerous world , will my right hon . friend join I in pay tribute to veteran in Australia , New Zealand , here in the UK and right across the Commonwealth , to whom we owe so much ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the question . Anzac Day be an incredibly important day . I be in Australia only a few month ago . we be only as strong as our relationship with our ally . they have make an extraordinary contribution to world peace , particularly during the world war . I pay tribute to veteran across the globe . it be not easy fighting war , particularly war of choice that be not global conflict , and then come back and reintegrate into society . veteran can be incredibly proud of their service . People like I and my counterpart in Australia and elsewhere will continue to strive night and day to improve their lot in civil society when they return . I will be lay a wreath on behalf of the House . public Sector procurement : Digital Goods and Services what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of public sector procurement of digital good and service . the Government recognise how vital digital product and service be for deliver public service . the digital , datum and technology playbook provide good practice guidance for the procurement of digital product and service . the playbook be update annually , most recently in June 2023 . department be responsible for ensure that public service deliver by the private sector represent value for money . Digital service procurement should be a win , win , win : the british public get well service , business get a good and reliable customer , and public service be reduce in cost . however , that be not the case under this Government . department be lock into single - source provider and dependent on legacy system . the National Audit Office itself say that procurement be not competitive enough . as an example of that , can the Minister say how competitive cloud service provision be across his government ? will he set out how he be use open source to boost competitiveness in digital service procurement ? we have a highly successful commercial function in Government , which be drive up value for money across all our commercial arrangement . it monitor contract , before , during and after they have be in place , to ensure that we reduce the chance of issue such as lock - in . I strongly advise the hon . Lady to go and read the commercial function documentation — I have . I be sure she have not . she should read the commercial function documentation that come out of the Cabinet Office , because she will see , as have be show successively , that it save billion of pound for the british taxpayer . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the Cabinet Office continue to play a central co - ordinating role in protect our national and economic security . last week , we publish the response to the call for evidence on the National Security and Investment Act 2021 , and I set out the step we will take to fine - tune that system , include hone our approach to export control , outward investment and provide more support to business . later , I will be convene a round table of university vice - chancellor to brief they on the security risk in research and academia , and to discuss how we address those . all of that complement our plan for a generational £ 75 billion uplift in defence spending , include a new national defence and resilience plan , set out a cross - Government approach to security , preparedness and resilience as a nation . it be often claim by critic that the continual stream of ineffective and incompetent legislation we see from Holyrood be evidence of the need for a second , democratically elect Chamber to scrutinise properly . we have such an effective Chamber here and this week we have see how important it can be in legislation . would that Chamber ' s position not have be strengthen by be a democratically elect second revise Chamber ? do the Secretary of State agree that the time have come when we need to look again at how we reform the House of Lords to make it more relevant to the 21st century and more democratic ? I be afraid that I completely disagree with the hon . Lady about have an elect second Chamber . this be the democratic Chamber for our nation . it be the principal voice of the nation . we do not need a second Chamber in conflict with this one , far burden and complexe legislative process . the very welcome Windsor framework demonstrate a strong commitment to human and animal health by extend Northern Ireland ' s access to veterinary medicine until 2025 . I welcome the establishment of the veterinary medicine working group by the Cabinet Office and the Northern Ireland Minister of State . I be pleased to be part of that group , which be work hard to find a permanent solution to this matter . can my right hon . friend , the Secretary of State in the Cabinet Office , reassure the House that the Government will continue to strain every sinew in discussion with the EU to protect both animal health and public health in Northern Ireland and right across the UK with a permanent solution for access to veterinary medicine in Northern Ireland ? yes , Madam Deputy Speaker , I can so assure my hon . friend . I be very grateful to he for bring his professional expertise to bear within the working group . we have meet twice and we intend to report at the end of June . we will then have a consistent and coherent position with which we can go forward to blend a combination of adaptation and , I hope , productive negotiation with the EU to deliver a long - last , permanent solution to safeguard both animal and human health on the island of Ireland . I be determined that we should do that in a coherent and professional manner , and I look forward to work with he to do so . I call the shadow Minister . may I begin with a moment of unity ? the Deputy Prime Minister and I be both push for an early general election as soon as possible . I very much welcome his recognition that there be absolutely no point in this Conservative Government carry on in office a moment long . far to the question a little early by my hon . friend the Member for Weaver Vale ( Mike Amesbury ) , this week two people be charge in this country , under the Official Secrets Act , with spy for China , one of whom work for politician in this House . order . I must stop the right hon . Gentleman . it seem to I that he be about to go down a road on a matter that be sub judice , which can not be discuss here in this Chamber . the Speaker make a statement at the beginning of business early this week , ask member not to refer to this matter , because it be sub judice . can the right hon . Gentleman ask his general question in a different way , and not refer to that specific issue ? thank you for your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker . I shall ask a policy question . the Government recently award a contract for a supercomputer to Lenovo , a China - headquarter firm that have be the subject of enforcement action by the United States on security ground . this supercomputer will be use by critical Government body such as the UK Atomic Energy Authority . how will Ministers safeguard the public against any possible misuse of sensitive Government datum as a result of the awarding of the contract ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . I know that he have also write to I regard that topic . I can assure he that we will be work with the National Cyber Security Centre and the National Security Secretariat to ensure that full check and measure be put in place to prevent such abuse from occur . the right hon . Gentleman refer to his role as general election co - ordinator for the Labour party . I understand that he sit on the quad , which determine labour policy , so perhaps he could clear up , for the benefit of we all , this question on an issue of national security . do the Labour party support our £ 75 billion increase in defence spending ? if he care about these thing , the answer should be plainly , " yes , we do " . when we announce a policy , we ensure that it be properly cost and fund , which I recommend to the Deputy Prime Minister . one other cyber - threat that modern state be face be prepositioning : the planting of destructive software in critical infrastructure that can then be activate at a later date . the director of the FBI say that prepositione of the Volt Typhoon type discover in american infrastructure be " the define threat of our generation " . America ' s cyber - defence agency say that five eye ally be also likely to have be target . have the Government look for or find Volt - Typhoon - type infiltration of any part of our critical national IT infrastructure , and if so what action be be take to remove it ? the right hon . Gentleman have be around this place long enough to know that he be deliver a non - answer on Labour ' s support for defence spending . the whole House will have note that , although he raise an important issue in respect of prepositioning . he will appreciate that there be limit to what I can say from the Dispatch Box give that some of this relate to high - side intelligence , but I assure he that we be work with our five Eyes ally , in particular the United States , since the US and the UK have exceptional capability in these area , to ensure that we both have adequate knowledge and understanding of such prepositioning , and take effective step in respect of it . eight week ago , on 29 February , at first order question , I ask the Minister without Portfolio what the Government would do to assist people who be adversely affect by the statute of limitation as a result of have be injure by covid - 19 vaccine . my right hon . Friend say in response that she have take the issue to the permanent secretary . will she update we on what have happen with the permanent secretary over the past eight week ? I thank my hon . friend for ask that question . he be a tireless campaigner on this matter , on which he have meet with I and the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care . as I say to my hon . friend , I be deal with this matter with the permanent secretary ; he will know that we have a new permanent secretary in the Department , and we be work at pace to resolve it . I call the SNP spokesperson . last year , the UK Government promise to relocate hundred of civil service post to the north - east of Scotland . it have now be confirm that the total number will be 35 . give the billion generate in energy revenue and the unparalleled potential of our area in power our green future , can the Minister please explain to the people of the north - east of Scotland how hundred and 35 be now the same thing ? I think the hon . Lady be refer to the second headquarters of the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero in Aberdeen , which I visit just before Christmas . I think that there be a misunderstanding about the number that be quote in the paper . some 18 , 283 job have move out of London as a consequence of the place for growth programme . I will examine the number that have move to Scotland , and write to she to clarify the Government ' s position . I recently meet with Emma Howard Boyd to discuss the interim finding of the Mayor of London ' s climate resilience review , which she have be lead on . it involve the work of many different Government Departments at a national level . will the Minister update we on whether we be conduct a similar exercise ? the review be look at what the impact would be of a similar heat - wave to the one we have a couple of year ago , flash flooding and all sort of thing . it be not just the responsibility of DESNZ or the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs ; it cover many Departments , so it be a Cabinet Office responsibility . it be an important question . we be do exactly that . extreme heat be something that we have to increasingly plan against . that be why last year , for the first time , we introduce an alert system for extreme heat that match the alert system for extreme cold . I disagree , though , with the Mayor of London that the way to deal with this be to start impose 20 mph speed limit everywhere and an ultra low emission zone . I hope that the people of London will take the opportunity to vote against that next week . early we hear a number of statement from the opposition question ministerial integrity , but perhaps they should look close to home — to be precise , at the first Minister of Wales and his link with donation to his leadership campaign and the Development Bank of Wales . can the Minister tell we when the Welsh Labour party will apply to itself the standard that Labour have call for in the Chamber this morning — [ interruption . ] order . if you all shout , I can not hear what the hon . Lady be say , but I think there be some doubt : the hon . Lady can not ask the Minister a question about what the Labour party will do . would she like to rephrase what she be say ? with reference to the link between the First Minister of Wales , the donation to his campaign and the Development Bank of Wales , would the Minister like to describe why this be such an issue for the people of Wales while the opposition keep shout that we be do the wrong thing ? my hon . friend make a very strong point . if a devolve Administration receive a donation as part of a political campaign — if the leader of that Administration receive a £ 200 , 000 donation at the same time that the Development Bank of Wales make a £ 400 , 000 loan to a subsidiary of that company — that be surely a matter of public interest . it will be for the First Minister of Wales to determine what be appropriate , but I would have think some explanation would be the very least that the people of Wales would expect . last year the Government pledge to introduce a ministerial deed to legally commit Ministers to keep to the after - Government business appointment rule . if I be cynical , I could think of a reason why the Government have not bring that commitment forward , but might the Minister give an idea of when he intend to do so ? the hon . Lady be right : in July , in response to those three report from the Committee on Standards in Public Life , the Boardman review and the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , the Government do say they would work up strengthen the rule on business appointment and develop that ministerial deed . I can not give an update at this point , because it be work the Deputy Prime Minister and his team be lead on , but it be important work and we do need to get it right . I thank the Paymaster General for all his hard work on the contaminated blood scandal . however , as you would expect , Madam Deputy Speaker , I still urge he to go far and fast to get this situation resolve . if the infected blood compensation authority be to be establish upon Royal Assent , can the Minister outline the timescale and process for the appointment of the chair and the other director , and how those with live experience will be involve and include among those director ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her kind word and her constructive approach . it be absolutely right that she continue to press I , as she do at every opportunity . reflect on our conversation and what she have say to I , the key thing be to ensure that we maintain and reclaim the trust of the infected blood community in all its dimension . she will know that I be engage with they in depth over several meeting on 1 and 10 May . Sir Brian Langstaff make clear that the infected blood community and all those access the scheme should have a role to play in its delivery , so , consequential to listen to what they say to I , I will be think about how we build that in . as she know , the Government have make provision for committee and sub - committee to ensure representation of the community , while also maintain an independent , arm ' s length body . I will need to reconcile those . I be sorry that I can not give she a timetable , but I be work on it in some detail . if I may press the Deputy Prime Minister , Foreign Office official have refuse to say whether Lord Cameron have recuse himself from part of his role as Foreign Secretary , give his previous well - pay work in promote the China - back Port City Colombo . can the Minister tell the House whether the Foreign Secretary have recuse himself from any part of his ministerial duty ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , shortly before take office the Foreign Secretary not only have all his interest properly review by the propriety and ethic team in my Department , but go through they with the independent adviser on minister ' interest . the independent adviser set out all relevant interest , and those have be publish , so the information be transparently out there for people to be able to judge for themselves . ever since the monster Cyril Smith , formally of this House , but initially mayor of Rochdale , the town have be blight by scandal of grooming and cover - up . we currently have 64 man on bail on groom charge in Rochdale . the previous labour mayor of Rochdale and the next mayor of Rochdale — the King ' s representative — be both investigate on charge of sexual malpractice towards young girl in their employ , with all the power imbalance that that imply . self - regulation , with no investigation by any outside party — how can this be right ? what will the Minister do to help I to clean up Rochdale ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , any criminal allegation be properly a matter for the court , and he would not expect a Minister to comment on they from this Dispatch Box . if he wish to write to I in respect of the further allegation he make , I will be happy to take they up myself or with ministerial colleague . what consideration have be give to the merit of make it illegal for public sector body to pay ransom if they be the victim of a ransomware attack ? that be a good question ; it be something the Government continue to keep open and under review . the argument against do so be that it could discourage company that be subject to ransomware attack from report they , for example to the National Cyber Security Centre . those report help we to gather intelligence on the nature of those threat and to work with victim to resolve they . it be not something I rule out totally , but that be the reason that we have not impose it so far . the Minister for Veterans ’ Affairs , the right hon . member for Plymouth , Moor View ( Johnny Mercer ) , will know that many council in Northern Ireland have appoint veteran ' champion . will he join I in acknowledge the work that many veteran ’ champion do ? will he also call on the wide range of political party on council in Northern Ireland to offer their unstinting support to those champion to help to deliver service to veteran ? yes , of course . we have make extraordinary progress on veteran affair in Northern Ireland . I recognise and have always recognise the unique difficulty of that . veteran ’ service , and ensure that these people be look after because of their service , should not be at the whim of different political party . I be work at pace to establish an outpost of the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs in Northern Ireland to create an environment where everyone can work together and pull together all the different service to get veteran ' care in Northern Ireland up to the same level as in England . I look forward to work with the hon . Gentleman and other elect representative out there from all party to make sure that we do the right thing . with two former conservative Prime Ministers have recently contravene the ministerial code — twice , in the case of Boris Johnson — and the Radcliffe rule , in the case of his successor , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , be it now Tory party policy to routinely ignore the rule ? if not , what sanction will they face ? the hon . Lady be correct to say that the book by the former Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , be review under the Radcliffe rule . the Cabinet Office do not clear it . the overwhelming majority of book that be submit do comply . we will have to keep these matter under review . this be a very simple question to the Deputy Prime Minister : do the Foreign Secretary stand recuse in any aspect of his job by virtue of his financial interest , either now or before he be appoint to his post — yes or no ? the Labour party keep on push on this point , but I refer the hon . Gentleman to the late list of ministerial interest , which be publish in December and provide detail of Minister ' s interest , include those of the Foreign Secretary , that be judge by the independent adviser to be relevant , or could be perceive to be relevant , to their ministerial role . all of it be there in the public domain . with reference to the write question that the parliamentary Secretary to the Cabinet Office have answer , can he outline what the Government consider to be the difference between a foreign court and an international court ? we have answer this question on a number of occasion . the Paymaster General tell my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) that he could not give a timeline with regard to the infected blood scandal compensation . this subject be raise on an almost daily basis in this House by member on both side , because our constituent just can not understand why it be take so long . can he at least give an indication of when he think compensation might begin to be pay ? it be especially important give that , as I understand it , one victim of the scandal die every four day . the answer to this be to be find when we issue the comprehensive response to the inquiry , as soon as possible after 20 May . legislation be go through the other place to make good on the amendment that be pass in this House by virtue of the advocacy and leadership of the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . we have announce that we will make some interim payment to the estate of those decease infect who have not yet receive any money , but the substantive response to translate 18 recommendation into meaningful and actionable response for a wide community over 40 or 50 year obviously demand a lot of work to quantify and get the process right . we will update the House as quickly as possible after 20 May . just now , the Deputy Prime Minister raise the issue of the £ 75 billion public spending announcement . would he care to tell the House why , after 14 year in power , it take an upcoming general election for he and his party to make defence spending policy ? it may have escape the hon . Gentleman ' s attention , but Russia have invade Ukraine and Iran ' s proxy be attack our ally in the middle east . that demand a response from the Government , and it have be provide by the Prime Minister . it be very notable that the Labour party be fail to match that commitment . paper at an employment tribunal last week report that Rowaa Ahmar , a former civil servant , state that " the racism within the Cabinet Office appear to be unrelenting and systemic " , and that , despite have a role as head of policy in the Government ' s illegal migration taskforce , she be make unwelcome at meeting about the Rwanda plan because of her view on the racist ultra - hostility of the policy . be Ms Ahmar right that speak up against racism in the Cabinet Office be a career death sentence ? I do not accept that at all . of course , Ms Ahmar withdraw her allegation completely on the eve of have they scrutinise at the high tribunal , so I do not accept that , and it be absolutely right that senior civil servant take action when there be performance issue with the staff under they , without fear of allegation be make against they . far to the question ask by my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) about the infected blood scandal , the Cumberlege report highlight over three year ago the need for redress for victim of the sodium valproate , vaginal mesh and primodos scandal . what progress have be make on redress for those victim ? I be sorry ; I be not able to give an answer on those other scandal . there be a Backbench Business debate on redress scheme last Thursday , to which the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) reply . I believe that work be ongoing , but I will have to write to the hon . Gentleman to give he a thorough answer on the matter . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I appreciate that standard may have change since I be last in this place , but in answer to the question ask by the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Patrick Grady ) , the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) , rise to the Dispatch Box and say , " we have answer this question on a number of occasion . " can that possibly be a legitimate ministerial answer ? after all , that could be the answer to virtually every question that be ever ask in this House . I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . I can not help agree with his final point , have sit in the Chair for thousand of hour and hear the same question answer again and again . he make a very good point : minister be responsible , and have a duty to answer the question again and again . however , if the Minister think — today or at any other time — that the appropriate answer in the circumstance be the one that the hon . Gentleman just quote , that be not something that I can criticise , or a matter on which I can take action . as Mr Speaker have say many time , and as I be very pleased to repeat , what minister say at the Dispatch Box be not a matter for the Chair . the hon . Gentleman ' s point of order have bring we perfectly to just after 10 . 30 am . we can therefore proceed to the business question . business of the House I ask the Leader of the House for the forthcoming business . the business for the week commence 29 April will include : Monday 29 April — consideration in Committee and remain stage of the Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill . Tuesday 30 April — consideration of Lords amendment to the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill . Wednesday 1 May — remain stage of the Automated Vehicles Bill [ Lords ] . Thursday 2 May — debate on a motion on security in the western Balkans , follow by a general debate on pension scheme . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House of Commons will rise for the early May bank holiday at the conclusion of business on Thursday 2 May and return on Tuesday 7 May . the provisional business for the week commence 6 May will include : Monday 6 May — the House will not be sit . Tuesday 7 May — general debate on defence . Wednesday 8 May — consideration in Committee of the Finance ( no . 2 ) Bill . Thursday 9 May — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 10 May — the House will not be sit . the awful event in Wales yesterday will have be traumatic for student , staff and parent , and our thought be with all those affect . I also pay tribute to Frank Field . the word say about Frank in recent day really reflect who he be : principle , determined , relentless , kind , generous and funny . his tireless campaign against poverty , and for opportunity and education , change the life of so many child who will never know it . my thought be with his family and friend . as someone well experienced in divided , weak government , do the Leader of the House share my concern that the SNP have break its power - share deal , which its leader say only last night be in the good interest of Scotland , leave the people of Scotland even bad off ? under the SNP Government , one in six scot be on an NHS waiting list , and people face high bill and high taxis . do she think that be why the Scottish Greens , the SNP ' s former partner , accuse the SNP of " sell out future generation " ? this have get nothing to do with the business of the House . it absolutely do ; I be ask the Leader of the House for her opinion on these matter . another week , another litany of problem for the Government . last week , there be more scandal and internal positioning , and this week , there be a catalogue of failing . the Government ' s flagship childcare plan be in tatter . they spend month in denial , yet this week the Department for Education finally admit what many parent have be experience : that the roll - out target be " problematic " . yesterday , the spending watchdog warn that the Government ' s plan do not " achieve its primary aim or demonstrate value for money " . the report be damn about the DFE ' s oversight and planning for new place . can the right hon . Lady guarantee that full delivery of the plan be on track ? this be the reverse - Midas - touch Government . only they could turn what should be a popular policy into such a vote loser . another policy that the Government have turn to dust be their pledge on renter ’ right . ahead of Report stage of the Bill on that subject yesterday , the Government table hundred of amendment — a poor reflection of the Leader of the House ' s oversight of the legislative agenda . the amendment water down that weak Bill even far , and there be no guarantee that ban section 21 eviction will ever happen . be it any wonder that the Renters Reform Coalition have pull its support for the Bill ? despite the government finally pass their Rwanda legislation , it have emerge that around 100 , 000 illegal migrant will languish in hotel at the taxpayer ' expense in perpetuity , unable to be remove or even process because of the Government ' s last piece of legislation . how be stop the small boat go ? the Government promise level up , yet the chair of Middlesbrough football club , a former Ben Houchen superfan , say that the Tees Valley Mayor be " give away our child ' s future " through his management of the South Tees Development Corporation . he be right , isn ' t he ? in perhaps what will become the Conservatives ' most lasting and damage legacy , there be more worrying evidence today about generation lockdown , among which there be not only massive school drop - out and absenteeism rate , but more drinking , because this Government fail to put in place the catch - up support need . it be no wonder that this country be cry out for change . how be the Leader of the House feel about her party ' s chance next week ? we all want to know . I see that on the day we return after the local election there be a general debate . be that in anticipation of something , or to keep Government member away from Westminster ? we be still wait on a lot of important legislation . order . I hesitate to interrupt the hon . Lady , but I will do so now before she come to her peroration . early in her questioning , she refer to matter in the Scottish Parliament , and ask the Leader of the House her opinion on they . she have just ask the Leader of the House her opinion on a general political matter . this be business question , and it be about the business of the House . I let the hon . Lady ' s question go very wide . they do not have to be exactly about the business of the House for next week , but they ought to relate to the business of the House of Commons . if , rather than ask the opinion of the Leader of the House , she ask a question about the business before we , that would be perfectly in order . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be about to ask why legislation such as the Criminal Justice Bill and the Sentencing Bill be not come forward the week after the local election , as have be demand by member on both side of the House . many other thing could also come before we for debate , yet the day we come back after the local election be very light . I wonder why that be . have the Leader of House clear her diary for that day , too ? be that why we have such light business that week ? no matter how much the Government ' s Mayors and candidate hide behind their green and purple branding , there be no escape the fact that they be stand on the woeful record of this Tory Government . we have a plan — they might not like it , but we do — to bring down waiting list , to deliver low energy bill , to build more home and , as we have set out today , to reform our railway in the interest of the travel public . it be not more free cash , as some have say . the truth be that a vote for the Conservatives be a vote for this chaotic mess to continue . be it not the case that if people want change , they have to vote Labour next Thursday ? first , may I send my thought and sentiment to all those affect by the appalling event in Wales ? I hope that the community recover swiftly . may I also place on record my sadness at the loss of our former colleague Frank Field , who be MP for Birkenhead for more than 40 year ? when I be go for candidate selection for the Conservative party , one of the question I be ask be who in the Labour party I most admire , and my answer be Frank Field . many know he for his relentless work combat poverty and its cause , but he have many other interest that he pursue with equal vigour . I be particularly pleased to work with he on try to secure the building of new ship in the UK , and he be also a fellow Brexit campaigner . the connection he have to the people he serve , and the duty that he feel towards they and never waver from , be profound , and I send my deep sympathy to all who know and love he . may I also pay tribute to Dame Elizabeth Gardiner DCB KC for her service as first parliamentary counsel ? she be the first woman to hold that role in its 150 - year history , and she have have a very busy eight year . I place on record my thank to she for her service and wish she well . I also congratulate Jessica de Mounteney , who succeed she . the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) ask I about the SNP . I be sure that we will come to that shortly , but the Greens leave the coalition provide the Labour party with an opportunity . I think a memo have go out to Labour Front Benchers say that they should go easy on the SNP , with a view to perhaps form some sort of coalition or alliance with it north of the border . the hon . Lady and her party talk a good talk — she just have on childcare , ensure that people have a warm and secure home , and level up the Tees Valley — but it be the Conservatives who be deliver the large expansion of free childcare . it be the Conservatives who have build 2 . 5 million new home and be get people on the housing ladder , and it be the Conservative Mayor Ben Houchen who have deliver regeneration for the Tees Valley and an employment rate 3 % above the national average . in response to the point about the need for more and well competition , the Conservatives be introduce legislation and scheme to strengthen the arm of the consumer , such as FairFuelUK ' s PumpWatch . labour ' s answer reduce competition far and be a return to the British Rail sandwich . the hon . Lady tout the move that be announce today . the shadow Transport Secretary , the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , say that the change will be do at zero cost , but we read that it will actually require £ 10 billion of additional funding and will not deliver any fare decrease or improved service . it be socialist ideology over practicality . even Lew Adams , ASLEF ' s former secretary - general , say : " in the public sector , all we get be cut , cut , cut . and today there be more member in the trade union , more train driver , and more train run . the reality be that it work , we ' ve protect job , and we get more job . " the hon . member for Manchester Central raise the issue of Rwanda . in response to the British Government ' s need to control foreign national ' access to the UK , the Conservatives have be do the hard yard of institutional and legal reform . we have introduce legislation establish the Rwanda scheme , and the Home Secretary be work to modernise the international framework that govern it . in contrast , Labour have vote hundred of time against that legislation , and say that it will scrap the Rwanda scheme even if it be work . instead , it be pursue a quota scheme that would see immigration rise . we will never do that . the hon . Lady talk of change , but the Labour party have not change at all . while Labour member have be scoff prawn cocktail , they have be devise 70 new business burden that they plan on introduce . while pose next to submarine , Labour Members — several Front - Bench Members — vote to scrap our deterrent and be refuse to match our baseline on defence spending . while Labour member criticise and sneer at those who celebrate the St George ' s flag , they be allow some of they to occupy the Labour Front Bench . today ' s Labour party be pack with the same old socialist and a few new plastic patriot , and no amount of window dressing — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . [ interruption . ] order . before the Leader of the House finish , I can take a point of order if it relate directly to the matter that we be discuss . absolutely , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Leader of the House be mislead the House . [ interruption . ] the Leader of the House just say — order . hold on . the hon . Lady can not accuse the Leader of the House of mislead the House . that would be quite wrong and , if the Leader of the House have do something along those line , I would have stop she immediately . if the hon . Lady mean that she disagree with the Leader of the House , that be a different matter . Madam Deputy Speaker , it be a matter of fact that Labour Members celebrate St George ' s day . we all put it on our social medium , and the leader of our party have make a point of wrap himself in the flag . the Leader of the House be completely incorrect in what she just say to the House . I think the hon . Lady mean that anything that the Leader of the House might have say would have be inadvertently misleading . I hope that the Leader of the House will correct the record right now . I want to take that point of order while the Leader of the House be still on her foot . I be quite sure that the Leader of the House do not intend to make any misdirection . would she care to take that point ? I have finish my response to the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) , but I be happy to add : the truth hurt . rise — order . let we be clear : we will be take question that relate to the business of the House . I call the vice - chairman of the Backbench Business Committee . I bring good news from the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , whose daughter - in - law be recover . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] that be good news , and he hope to be back next week . may I add my condolence to those send to the family of Lord Field ? I have the opportunity to meet he when I be a student at Liverpool University . he be a redoubtable campaigner on everything he believe in and one of those people I profoundly respect . on behalf of the Backbench Business Committee , in addition to the business that my right hon . friend the Leader of the House have announce , on Thursday 9 May there will be a debate on miner and mining community and a debate on the BBC mid - term charter review . if we be give the time for Thursday 16 May , we have offer a debate on the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s report on woman ' s state pension age , which be extremely well subscribe ; and if we be give 23 May , there will be a debate on UK arm export to Israel and inequality in dementia service . in further good news , we have fill up the business for Westminster Hall on Tuesdays until the Whitsun recess with debate on : cost associate with illegal immigration ; the impact of smartphone on social medium ; and the introduction of UK - make zero - emission bus in the UK . on Thursday , we have debate on global health agency and on Global Intergenerational Week . the Backbench Business Committee have be aim to get as many debate on the agenda as possible , but , as always , if member have request , they should please submit they by Friday lunchtime and we will deal with they as appropriate . over the weekend , I speak to a number of woman who be frightened of walk home after dark . the fact be that the rise in crime in London have be dramatic , the rise in knife crime have be dramatic , and the Metropolitan police be the only force in the country that have fail to meet its recruitment target . could we have a statement next week on action that the Government will take to ensure that we have the police that be need in London to make woman — and man — feel safe when they be travel home ? I thank my hon . friend for step up and make that very helpful announcement on all Backbench Business in the forthcoming week . I be sure the whole House will want to send good wish to the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) and his family . it be very good news that his daughter be make a recovery ; we send all our love to he and his family . my hon . friend be absolutely right to point to the failing of the London Mayor . London have get less safe and crime be on the rise , particularly violent crime , and it be no surprise to hear that my hon . friend ' s constituent be very concerned about that . unfortunately , many of the area he mention be the responsibility of the Mayor of London , but there be something that not just Government Members but the general London public can do in the come day , and that be vote in a new Mayor of London . I think people will agree that you be indeed " Safer with Susan " . I call Scottish National party spokesman . I associate myself with the comment about the dreadful news from Wales , and of course those about Frank Field . I make no apology for start this week where I finish last week . the Leader of the House may recall that I ask for a debate on the new Brexit border control due to come into effect next week . answer come there none , but thing become clear later on , as the Financial Times report within hour of my question : " the UK Government have tell the country ' s port authority that it will not ' turn on ' critical health and safety check for EU import … because of the risk of ' significant disruption ' … the new border system will not be fully ready . " it be be call a phase implementation approach — very " Yes Minister " speak from some hapless civil servant try to excuse the sixth such delay . More delay , more confusion for business , but no statement from the Minister . Scotland ' s importer , exporter , agricultural and hospitality sector and business large and small be all at their wit ' end because the Tories insist on impose their Brexit folly on we . Brexit be estimate to be cost salmon producer — the large food exporter in the UK — up to £ 100 million a year . tourism in the highland and island have be devastate , with staff shortage affect 45 % of business to date . Brexit be name as the main difficulty for 44 % of business in Scotland trade overseas . before the late delay be announce , the chair of the Chilled Food Association , which represent 30 trade and professional organisation , say that every time there be a proposal from the UK Government , people invest in paperwork and computer system and then the Government change the rule again . since 2021 , £ 200 million will have be spend on just one export health certificate . a recent report find that the UK economy have shrink by £ 140 billion , with the average citizen around £ 2 , 000 bad off — thank to good old Brexit that Scotland do not vote for . yet this place shut its eye to the devastating impact that Brexit have have on people ' s life and business . scot be accustomed to be ignore , overrule and treat with disdain by this government , but be drag out of the EU against our will have be an economic and social disaster for we . no party can claim to be the party of business and back Brexit , so I urge the Leader of the House to overcome the vow of silence — an omert à between the Tory and labour party — and tell we when we can have an urgent debate on the effect of Brexit , start with this disastrous delay Tory trade tax . despite what the hon . Lady say , we have now become the fourth large exporter in the world . I will not annoy the hon . Lady by list how well the nation be do on trade , fishing and many of the thing that we want to see improve to give people new opportunity , because I know it would irritate she . it be no surprise to I that SNP Members do not want to face reality : they do not want to engage with the trader support service that be support business very well or with the fact that we be create an interface directly between the IT system in business and the legacy Government system such as his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs so that we reduce bureaucracy for those trader and support they in meet their ambition . it be no surprise that SNP Members do not want to deal with the reality of the situation give the reality of the situation now for the SNP , a minority Administration with their failing and some very serious issue that we all know be now subject to prosecution as well as investigation . not even the Greens want anything to do with they . may I first pay tribute to Lord Field ? he be one of my political hero , and I first meet he when I be a 20 - year - old student , along with my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) . as his constituency Member of Parliament , I be delighted to inform the House that he continue to correspond with I on the issue and campaign that he care about until the very end of his life . as part of our national health strategy , we rightly emphasise the importance of eat healthily and take physical exercise , but we do not take sleep into account . today the Sleep Charity publish " dream of Change : a Manifesto for Sleep " , which highlight the serious mental and physical health problem that a lack of sleep can cause among both child and adult . would my right hon . friend consider a debate in Government time on the vital public health importance of get more sleep ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that incredibly important issue . we could run a positive public health campaign ; rather than just tell people not to drink or smoke , we should also ask they whether they have have enough sleep . we should be proud of the research that have be do in the UK . Professor Russell Foster at Oxford University have do amazing work which be lead to improvement in the general population , but particularly among veteran who have suffer blast injury and lose their sight . I would be happy to raise what my hon . friend have say with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , because I think that that would be a very good initiative . I first associate myself with the comment about our old friend Frank , whom I know for many year . it be widely acknowledge , in this Chamber and elsewhere , that Iran be run and control by a bunch of clerical fascist and homicidal maniacs who have now take to attack people on british soil , which be a bit of a break with what use to happen . however , there be a difference of opinion over how we should respond , especially with regard to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . I know that we have have plenty of statement and urgent question about Iran , but could we have a statement next week ? the point raise by the hon . Gentleman be a regular theme at business question , and throughout the week . these be very serious matter , and he be right to point out that this activity be not limit to the strait of Hormuz or other part of the world but be take place on british soil . our citizen be be threaten , and many representative such as councillor and other who hold public office be have to be protect as a result of the appalling campaign against they and the death threat . I will ensure that those at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say , and will encourage they to update the House . the United Kingdom have a vibrant classic car sector , but the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency seem to have take against it somewhat , force car that have be subject to modest repair or even heinous crime such as the fitting of seatbelt to have q - plate . as I know from attend the Heritage Matters Insight Day event hold by the Historic & Classic Vehicles Alliance during the Easter recess , and indeed from my own inbox , the problem seem to be get bad . I have raise it numerous time in the Transport Committee , but it be not go away . may we have a debate in Government time to iron out these issue and ensure that the Department for Transport get a grip on the DVLA ' s attitude to the classic car sector ? I would be happy to raise the hon . Gentleman ' s point with the Transport Secretary , as transport question will not take place again until 16 May . this be not just about people ' s personal vehicle ; it concern an enormous number of UK business . we have a huge export market , and Britain be , of course , very well know for its motor sport and motoring in general . I congratulate my hon . friend on his campaign on this important matter , and will ensure that all relevant Secretaries of State have hear what he have say . Frank Field be a great mate . we even forgave he , in the end , for his daft view on Brexit . he be a great guy and a great colleague , and we miss he dearly . I genuinely seek the guidance of the Leader of the House this morning — I be not try to make a political point . we have work very hard to ensure that standard in this House be of the high order , and my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) have play a big part in that . this Parliament ' s reputation be base on standard here and in the upper House . be it possible for she to have a conversation with her senior colleague in the House of Lords ? I do not know whether she see a recent article in the Sunday Times that say the Earl of Oxford and Asquith , a former MI6 chief in Moscow , be a lobbyist for a man in the US who be believe to be involve in russian gang crime . everybody know there be a group in the upper House that be very close to Russia . could we look into this issue ? it will impinge on Parliament if it be not deal with . be the hon . Gentleman relate his question to the business of the House ? oh , and may we have an early debate on it ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman . I hope that other will follow his learn example . I will answer the hon . gentleman with the same good faith with which he ask his question . if he have serious concern about anyone on the parliamentary estate , he need to raise they formally , and in the appropriate way , with the House authority . that would be the right course of action if he have genuine concern about anyone . I do not quite agree with the last answer give by the Leader of the House . we know who we be talk about , and I agree with those on the Opposition side of the House . may we have a debate in Government time on the Three Rivers development in Mid Devon — I have mention this before — which be now become a cover - up and a financial scandal ? the chairman of the scrutiny committee have do a runner and slunk off to rent accommodation in Bampton , which be a disgrace . I be afraid this be now become a serious issue for local government . Mid Devon Council have no scrutiny , no responsibility , and absolutely no idea what it be do . in Government time , can we talk about local government that be not take its financial responsibility seriously and be cover up major issue ? I be sorry to hear about what sound like a very concern issue that be affect my hon . friend ' s constituent . give that the next question to the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be not until June , I will ensure that he have hear what my hon . friend have say today . may I add my condolence to the family of Lord Field ? he be an exceptional man and an outstanding politician , and I have the privilege of know he for two year while he be still a Member of Parliament . work or study in other country have wide - range benefit for young people . perhaps the sad outcome of Brexit be that the number of young people from the UK work and study in EU country , and the number of young people from the EU work and study here , have dramatically reduce . in order to reverse this worrying trend , last week the EU propose youth mobility visa , but the Government reject they outright , even though they would have bring a wide - range and welcome boost to our economy — I mean that in good faith . can we please have a statement from the Government on why that proposal be reject outright and how they propose to boost youth mobility between EU country and the UK ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise this issue . she will know that our approach have be to widen opportunity for our citizen and give they more choice about where they might want to study abroad . I think that the Secretary of State do put out a statement explain why the scheme be not deem to be in our interest , and it be due to the fact that it be not go to be reciprocal . this be the first time in my 19 year as a Member of Parliament that I have raise this sort of frustration and complaint , so I hope my right hon . friend realise how serious it be . over a month ago , I write to the Foreign Secretary about a british citizen whose husband be be hold illegally in a foreign country without trial . I have try repeatedly to ask the Foreign Secretary for a reply and I go to the Deputy Foreign Secretary to chase thing up , but still nothing . I find it wholly unacceptable that the Foreign Secretary have not reply to I in over a month of correspondence when I be raise the right of a british citizen whose husband be be keep in appalling circumstance abroad . it be his duty and responsibility to respond in writing to member in a timely fashion . will my right hon . friend the Leader of the House please take this issue up for I with the Foreign Office ? I be very sorry to hear that . this be clearly an incredibly pressing matter . if my hon . friend give I further detail after business question , I shall raise it immediately with the Foreign Office and ensure that he be able to speak to the people he need to speak to in order to do his duty by his constituent . will the Leader of the House advise I on how we can bring Ministers to the House to account for their decision on arm export licence ? as she know , the Select Committee on Business and Trade assume responsibility for the oversight of arm export licence in January . at the beginning of April , an important legal judgment be issue by the International Court of Justice . we therefore hold our first hearing on license arm export to Israel yesterday . we give Ministers 20 day ' notice to attend , together with detailed question in correspondence . I be grateful to the Deputy Foreign Secretary for his apology to I yesterday for the Foreign Office not field a Minister . I have have no such correspondence or contact from the Department for Business and Trade . this be not acceptable . minister be politically accountable to Parliament . this be a matter of extreme interest to the House , and it be part of Ministers ' legal responsibility that they be politically accountable . will the right hon . Lady advise I on what step she can take next week to ensure that a Minister answer for the judgment the Government have make ? I know that the right hon . Gentleman take those new responsibility very seriously . as he know , both Departments have make it clear that they be perfectly happy to attend and be scrutinise in respect of those decision and to answer question on the Government ' s position . twenty day ' notice sound like a long time , but he will understand that the Ministers in question may have travel obligation and might therefore have be unable to make the specific date . I know that he know last Friday that they would not be able to attend the session that take place yesterday . I also know that the Deputy Foreign Secretary speak to he and , I hope , reassure the right hon . gentleman of his intention to field a Minister for his Committee . even though I be not tell the right hon . Gentleman anything he do not already know , I hope that reassure he that minister do intend to attend . I be very sure that no stunt such as those that take place yesterday will be require to get they to do so . may we have a statement on Harlow Council and the success of its conservative administration ? my right hon . friend will be aware that Conservative - lead Harlow Council have cut and frozen council tax for three year and protect vital public service , as well as clear the housing backlog and secure million of pound in Government investment to build an even well Harlow . Harlow ' s conservative council be currently lead by the young council leader in political history , Mr Dan Swords , who be a former apprentice in my office . do my right hon . friend agree that how Harlow Council lead , other council should follow , and will she encourage everyone in Harlow and across the country to vote conservative on 2 May ? I thank my right hon . friend for congratulate Dan and the other councillor who have do so much for their community . Dan be proof that age be not relevant , but political hue be . elsewhere , in the west midland , Andy Street have be follow Harlow ' s example . he have never raise any taxis , and he do not charge an additional precept , yet he have bring billion of pound of investment into his region , in stark contrast to Sadiq Khan in London , who have increase the mayoral precept by more than 70 % , and labour - run Birmingham , which be increase council tax by 21 % to pay for its error . it be very clear : if you want well service at low cost , vote conservative . like many across this House , I be utterly floor to hear the sad news of my friend Lord Field ' s pass . his be a life devoted to help those in poverty , especially child . we work together on the all - party parliamentary group on hunger , the School Holidays ( Meals and Activities ) Bill and the Food Insecurity Bill . we then set up Feeding Britain , a national charity that continue to alleviate hunger across the UK , but we both know that our charity should not have to exist in a country as rich as ours . with over 4 million child in poverty , do the Leader of the House agree that it would be a fitting tribute to our dear friend to hold an urgent debate on end child poverty ? I thank the hon . Lady for highlight Frank Field ' s legacy , as many other member have do . the work of the organisation that he help to found , and that he work with , will continue . the hon . Lady will know that we bring forward a cost of live package that now exceed £ 108 billion . she will also know that there be hundred of thousand few child live in absolute poverty , and over a million few workless household . we stand on that record , and we want it to continue . Wrexham will soon have the large trading estate in Europe , with more business seek to invest , expand and export . as business grow , so do opportunity . I be pleased to visit the newly establish centre for international trade support , which help company to identify , understand and reach global market . will my right hon . friend congratulate Clive Barnard and his team on their new business venture , and consider a debate in Government time on export opportunity ? I thank my hon . friend for draw the House ' s attention to this new venture ? I be sure we all want to send our good wish to clive and his team on their new business venture . Wrexham ' s international profile have grow in recent time , which be provide a strong hook for local business to take advantage of global market and our new trade agreement . I thank my hon . friend for all her work to ensure that her constituency be on the map . the investment zone will make Wrexham the absolute leader in the field of advanced manufacturing , as well as in the creative and digital sector . we expect this to encourage further growth , with up to £ 160 million of support for the zone , which will help to protect ten of thousand of exist skilled job and create many thousand more . I congratulate my hon . friend on her part in it . the counter - disinformation unit , now know as the national security online information team , have a remit to tackle the great national security risk face the UK , and misinformation and disinformation cause risk to election . disturbingly , a racist letter riddle with misinformation and disinformation be post to all Hindus in Brent and Harrow . it attack our current Mayor of London and our Assembly member , Krupesh Hirani , incorrectly state that Sadiq and Krupesh do not care about Hindus , which be a complete and utter lie . with one week to go until the mayoral election , will the Leader of the House condemn the letter and ensure that the NSOIT investigate it ? may we have a debate on the Floor of the House on the NSOIT ' s role ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that . she will know that there be way in which any concern about thing such as election literature can be address . clearly , if she think a criminal offence have be commit , she should raise that with the police . I suggest that that be the good course of action for she . our sanction on the Russian Federation be much need , but they be be undermine by a weak , politically compromise global anti - money laundering system , which mean that Russia be not on any domestic money launder blacklist . may we have a debate on how we can strengthen our anti - money laundering regulation , particularly to make sure that Putin can not use UK business to finance his illegal war in Ukraine , as he be now ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important matter . she be absolutely right . she will know that in March the Treasury launch a consultation on anti - money laundering regulation to far strengthen the effectiveness of that regime , and to ensure that they respond to emerge change and that the burden place on business be appropriate . I will make sure that the relevant Minister have hear her interest in this matter and that she be update . unfortunately , this morning many of my constituent find themselves in the same position as the two now former Scottish Green Ministers , in that they have be cut off from government service . in Kirkliston , the post office be go to close , which will deny many of my constituent access to vital government service and to cash , as no banking facility be available within easy reach by public transport . I know that the Minister of State , Department for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , be very busy deal with the Horizon scandal , but could he come to the House to give we an update on why so many post office across the country be close and leave constituent in the same position as mine ? I be sorry to hear that that be happen in the hon . Lady ' s constituency and I will certainly make sure that the Post Office Minister have hear what she have say today . I will also ask official at the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to get in contact with her office . she will know that where this have happen in community and people be not able to get access to free cash service , or bank or other brick - and - mortar premise be close , there be way in which to ensure that business and individual have access to those service . the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have a good good practice guide on how that can be deliver . I bring good news from Kettering , where Kettering General Hospital have become the first hospital in the whole of Europe to insert into more than 100 patient the very late , special , state - of - the - art implantation loop recorder , which diagnose heart rhythm disturbance such as atrial fibrillation ; in fact , 178 local patient have now benefit from that innovative diagnostic tool . may we have a statement from the Leader of the House congratulate Kettering General Hospital and its superb cardiac team on that wonderful achievement ? we all look forward in business question to more good news from Kettering . I congratulate my hon . friend on all the work he have do in support the hospital and in secure the £ 1 . 2 million - worth of funding that be give to expand and upgrade its facility . we can all be proud that the hospital be one of the first in Europe to fit those device , which will make a huge difference to patient , and I be sure that everyone here would want to congratulate Kettering General Hospital and its cardiac team on that landmark achievement . it be standard practice in school , university , the NHS , local government and Government Departments that if somebody be arrest for or charge with a sexual or violent crime , a risk assessment will be carry out , follow potentially , if necessary , by an exclusion or suspension from work , pende further investigation and , if necessary , a trial . the Standards Committee and the House of Commons Commission agree that we should have something similar for this House , which have be sit on the stop now for several month . I understand there be perfectly legitimate question about exactly how that should operate , but I do not understand why the Leader of the House have not table the motion that come straight from the House of Commons Commission , which I would think be her duty as Leader of the House . secondly , why have she pull the vote on at least one occasion and still not give we a date to have that vote ? we need to burnish the reputation of this House , not tarnish it . will she please give we a date , as soon as possible , so that we can have a debate and come to a legitimate view on how we can progress this ? I hope to be able to do that at the next business statement I give . the hon . Gentleman will understand that we have have a number of piece of legislation that we have need to act on , some of which be not expect , so we have have to find space for that . he will know that as a member of the Commission I take this matter seriously and I would be very happy to bring forward that debate , and I hope it will be announce in my next business statement . in her opening remark , my right hon . Friend refer to the rail network and be rightly critical of Labour ' s late proposal to make change to that . my constituent want improved service on the Brigg to Cleethorpes and Barton to Cleethorpes line , and on through service from Grimsby and Cleethorpes to London . could we have a debate about the state of the rail industry and the way forward , and how we can improve service for customer , rather than tinker with the structure ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I thank he for his continue campaign to ensure that his constituent can get well rail service and we be maintain good value for money . I will certainly ensure that the Secretary of State for Transport have hear his request . he will know how to apply for a debate in the usual way . for year now , victim of the Philips Trust scandal have be try to get answer to their question on how they can recover the money building society , include the Newcastle Building Society , encourage they to invest in family trust with unregulated company . they have be let down at every level , especially by the Financial Conduct Authority . will the Leader of the House ask the Chancellor to meet with I and representative of the Philips Trust Action Group to address this issue quickly ? I be sorry to hear about the situation and I thank the hon . Lady for her ongoing effort on behalf of her constituent . I will certainly ensure that the Chancellor and relevant Ministers have hear her plea . to try to make up for its financial mismanagement , labour - run Kirklees Council be look to introduce new car parking charge , punish hard - work family and destroy our high street in our town and village . in a recent damn report , independent auditor say about Kirklees : " we have be unable to satisfy ourselves that the Council have make proper arrangement for secure economy , efficiency and effectiveness in its use of resource . " will my right hon . friend agree to a debate on the failing of this shambolic Labour - run council ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in my hon . friend ' s constituency . when council use motorist and people go about their daily business as some sort of cash cow to plug gap in their budget due to their mismanagement , community end up in a downward spiral . People can not go to the shop , they do not use those service and it be a disaster . whether in Kirklees , Sheffield , Nottingham , Birmingham or London , Labour be wage a war against work people , and motorist in particular . that have grave and dire consequence if we want vibrant community . I encourage my hon . friend to continue his campaign against the council and that particular initiative , and I urge everyone who have the opportunity to vote in a conservative council . first , may I offer my deep condolence to Frank Field ' s family ? Thames Water have be put vast amount of sewage into both the Thames and its tributary in my area , include the Pang , the Lambourn , the Kennet and Foudry Brook . in addition , we have an incident recently where hundred of read resident have their water cut off for two day and we be still to see any compensation for they . a similar incident happen in Surrey . to make matter bad , the company now have mount debt and there be a loom financial crisis threaten its very future . be it possible to have a statement , so that Ministers can explain their action to tackle these serious problem ? the hon . Member will know that the infrastructure programme to upgrade our water and particularly our wastewater system be the large of its kind in the world . he can track progress against those infrastructure plan on the dashboard of the Water UK website . good progress have be make . just to give one statistic , when we come into office , less than 7 % of overflow be monitor ; the figure be now 100 % . those overflow will come down very swiftly in the come year . but there be particular issue with particular company , and I will make sure that the Secretary of State have hear his particular concern about these aspect of Thames Water , as the next question be not until 9 May . resident in Lancashire have have an excellent police and crime commissioner since 2021 in Andrew Snowden . he have prioritise community and neighbourhood policing , recognise that visible policing be a key way to reduce crime and antisocial behaviour . but that be now under threat : labour ' s candidate in the upcoming election be the same person who hold the role previously and do so much damage to Lancashire policing . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate on the importance of community policing and station ? I know that my hon . friend will know how to apply for a debate and I would encourage she to do so . I understand that , when the conservative police and crime commissioner come into office , he find out that his predecessor could balance the book only by shut police station , include Accrington , Burnley , Chorley — Mr Speaker would be very disappointed to hear that — Morecambe and many other , and by make redundant a large number of police staff : the precise people we want in touch with their community daily . in contrast , Andrew Snowden , who have be Lancashire ' s PPC , have reopen four police station and be currently construct two more . that be the kind of service that people want . they want bobby on the beat and to be able to call in to local police station . that be exactly why Andrew Snowden should be re - elect . in March , I be very glad to get together with the local police and local resident at the Royal British Legion club in Greenford to thank Arthur Gray for 30 year ' service in the Met police . in recent year , Arthur have be a police community support officer for Greenford and Northolt in my constituency . on his retirement , he say that " the big joy have be work with resident . it have be a privilege to support the local community and build up long - last relationship . " will the Leader of the House join I in send my sincere and heartfelt thank to Arthur for all his year of service to the local community ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for give not just I , but the whole House the opportunity to say a big thank you to Arthur for his many year of service . it be because of he that our community be not just safe , but strong and well place in which to live . and I expect the hon . Gentleman want to ask for a debate on the matter . that would be lovely ; a debate would be great as well . thank you , we shall take that as read on this particular occasion . in stark contrast to London , in Essex , our brilliant police , fire and crime commissioner Roger Hirst have cut knife crime by over 11 % in just one year and his hotspot policing model to tackle antisocial behaviour be now be roll out around the country . but education be also key to tackle knife crime , which be why I be work with Roger Hirst and with our city cabinet member , Councillor James Courtenay , who be also up for election next week , to bring the Knife Angel to Southend . do my right hon . friend agree that the good way to continue cut crime , particularly knife crime , be to re - elect Roger Hirst next week and all conservative councillor on 2 May , and can we have a debate on how we should strengthen the successful PCC model ? well do on be in order . I see you nod approvingly , Madam Deputy Speaker . yes — vote for Roger and James for that positive trend to continue . I congratulate my hon . friend on her work to get the Knife Angel project to come to her constituency . we should put on record our thank to that fantastic organisation , which have do so much to strip out knife from community and educate young people . of all the opaque and arcane procedure in this place , the Reasons Committee procedure be perhaps one of the most opaque and arcane , so I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow Central ( Alison Thewliss ) on seek to amend and oppose the Government ' s reason for object to the Lords amendment to the Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill in the Committees this week . I note that the minute show that the Labour Members sit on their hand throughout those meeting . I wonder whether we could make the procedure more transparent simply by the Government publish their reason alongside the motion to disagree , so that we can debate the context of the Government ' s reason for reject the Lords amendment , and perhaps speed thing up without additional vote . well , there be an offer from the hon . Gentleman . I be always interested in any innovation that hon . member propose . the House collectively will make the rule of this place , but the reason the Government have be pursue the legislation and want it to achieve Royal Assent in a particular form have be well set out on many occasion from this Dispatch Box . the Leader of the House will know that we have have many debate in this place relate to the nolan principle and mp , but in just day resident across Bedfordshire will vote in the police and crime commissioner election . it have be report that , back in March , the police and crime sub - panel find that the conservative candidate and current PCC Festus Akinbusoye have have serious complaint against he uphold . the panel determine that Akinbusoye have use " unreliable statistic " , make " false and malicious accusation " and be " disrespectful to member of the public " , include call one of they the " enemy " . surely resident in Bedfordshire deserve well , and deserve to know the panel ' s full finding , so will parliamentary time be allocate to the importance of the nolan principle for those in all elect position , and the process that hold they to account ? the nolan principle , which run across every aspect of public life , be very important . they play a very important role in all our standard and proceeding , both in the House and in Government . I have to say that what the hon . Lady say be in stark contrast to my experience of the gentleman she refer to . he have an amazing track record of serve his community . I have be out on patrol with he in the area that he serve . he be very highly regard by the people I speak to on the doorstep . so you back those statement . that be very dangerous . order . do not shout from the Back Benches . I have already say that this be not a time for ask the opinion of the Leader of the House . this be business question . [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady ask her question perfectly well ; it be her comment from a sedentary position on which I be comment . this be not about opinion . she ask a perfectly reasonable question , and it have be answer . I add my voice to the tribute pay to Frank Field , whose assistance and wisdom be of great help to I as a newly elect constituency MP for a nearby seat . he be hold in very high regard by my constituent , and his legacy will live on in Ellesmere Port through Ellesmere Port College and the Frank Field Education Trust . can we please have a debate on private parking company ? I have have a number of instance recently where these company seem to be operate by their own rule . constituent have put appeal in against fine . there seem to be absolutely no consideration give to technical issue , or wide question about why ticket have be issue . frankly , it seem to I to be nowhere close to approach justice in the sense that member of this House would understand . I be sorry to hear that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent have be suffer due to poor practice by those firm . he will know that under the coalition Government , new measure be introduce to crack down on thing such as clamp on private land and other practice that come from such firm , and this Government take those issue very seriously . if the situation be not resolve , I think that the hon . Gentleman , when he get the next opportunity on 16 May at Transport question , or at other opportunity or other business question , should name the company . he can do that , which I find get people in such company to focus on resolve these issue more sensibly . in last week ' s Backbench Business debate on the covid - 19 pandemic response and trend in excess death , I ask whether it be now accept that it be a mistake to give the respiratory suppressant drug midazolam , as part of National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guideline NG163 , as treatment for those suspect of have covid - 19 . I also ask , should there be legal case prove unlawful killing link to overdose and toxicity from midazolam , who would be hold criminally responsible . would it be the then Secretary of State for Health , NICE , NHS England or the individual doctor and nurse who administer the drug ? those question be not answer . can we have a statement from a Health Minister ? the evasion and gaslighte on this issue have get to end . I will certainly ensure that the Secretary of State have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say . the hon . Gentleman will know that he can either write to the Department or put in a write question , and that there be timeframe under which those question have to be answer . he have have many debate on these issue and he have ample opportunity to raise these question and get answer from Ministers . I would also caution the hon . gentleman on some of the thing he be say and , again , some of the thing he be put on social medium . I do not think that any healthcare professional or nurse administer a vaccine be do those thing for any other reason than the care of the patient in front of they . if there be an insinuation that they be do they for other reason and that they should face consequence for do their duty in the NHS or other service , people might get the wrong idea , so I urge he , because I know that be not his intention , to be clear in his communication on these matter . in recent week , I have be run a Selby Shoutouts competition , where local people can nominate for recognition small and medium - sized enterprise that make an outstanding difference to our local community . I have be blow away by the response , with 90 different firm nominate by some 150 local resident . local people clearly know how crucial sme be to our local area , so please can we secure time for a debate on support for sme across the wonderful county of North Yorkshire ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on a brilliant initiative , which be not only help to raise the profile of those fantastic local business in his constituency , but demonstrate that business be a force for good in the world and in his local community . he will know how to apply for a debate , but I wish the initiative very well . although the House will be debate the Buckland review of autism employment later today , the Government have just axe a £ 100 million scheme to support people with disability into work . do the Leader of the House agree , therefore , that the Government be merely pay lip service to support those in need ? can we have a debate or statement from the Government to outline and explain their confused position ? I congratulate my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) and all member who have assist he , on the work they have do to produce this new focus on an important area . I do not think there be any inconsistency with his work or the Government ' s work in this area . a million more people with a disability now have the dignity of a pay packet than in 2010 , not just because of our welfare reform , but because of the health and work support . such disability be now view with much great focus than a few year ago . progress be be make , but as my right hon . and learn Friend have point out , more work be need . I encourage everyone to take part in the debate later today . I want to add to the tribute to the late Frank Field . he be a graduate of Hull University , of which we be very proud in Hull . I work with he on ensure that this House deliver the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , and he be one of the first campaigner around the contaminated blood scandal back in the 1980 . on the forthcoming business of the House , Ministers have tell we how important the Criminal Justice Bill be ; yesterday , the safeguarding Minister , the hon . member for Newbury ( Laura Farris ) , tell the Home Affairs Committee that it would be back before the House imminently . can the Leader of the House tell we whether the potential conservative rebellion over the criminalisation of the homeless be one reason that the Bill be not mention in the forthcoming business , and whether the Bill will ever come back before the House ? the right hon . Lady have make her point well , and I shall ensure that the Home Office have hear they . as she will know I be go to say , further business will be announce in the usual way , but I will take it that she be keen to see the Bill come back . I echo the sentiment about Frank Field . although his seat be elsewhere , he tell I on day one that he be a proud Chiswickian . week after week , mp have push Ministers to restore UK funding for the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , and all the while we have see life lose in Gaza . the stock response have be that we await the Colonna report — well , that report be publish on Monday , and yet there have not be a peep from the Government . can we have an urgent statement on this ? now that Canada , Australia , Denmark , Finland , Sweden , Germany , France , Japan and , in fact , the EU have all unfrozen funding , when will we ? I will certainly ensure that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have hear what the hon . Lady have say . these matter be take extremely seriously . she will know that the Deputy Foreign Secretary have be very concerned about ensure that there be aid and support go in to support people who have be displace and those who need food , medical attention and many other thing in Gaza and elsewhere . there may be other issue beyond the security issue the hon . Lady refer to — UNRWA have for a long time be a very financially fragile organisation . we want to ensure that the people in need , whom we wish to support , be get aid , and that it be do in a way that do not compromise security . can we have a debate on the kindness of charity fundraiser ? next month , the team at Pollokshields early year centre be run the Cancer Research UK Race for Life as " Jamal ' s warrior " in memory of 10 - year - old Jamal Aslam , who tragically pass away last year from a soft tissue cancer . do the Leader of the House agree that we should thank all the researcher who work so hard to ensure that no family have to go through lose a cheeky , funny and incredibly sweet boy like Jamal to cancer ? on behalf of the whole House , I thank the hon . Lady for give we the opportunity to send our thank and good wish to the early year centre , and again to place on record our admiration and thank to all those work in these important field of research . we have make dramatic progress in the past few year on many therapy area — cancer in particular — and we know that survival rate be improve dramatically . british farmer be operate on ever narrow margin in a volatile market . it be hugely concern to farmer in my constituency that red diesel supplier be encourage farmer to stock up in case of price rise . brent crude oil have soar by 16 % over the past three month . there be conflict that may escalate in the middle east , Europe and South America that could make price rocket even far . I ask the Leader of the House if we can have a debate on the impact of red diesel price on british farming . that be an important matter , and I thank the hon . Lady for raise it . she can raise it herself at the next Environment , Food and Rural Affairs question on 9 May , and she will know how to apply for a debate , but I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear what she have say . tonight be the annual award of the Music Producers Guild . the award would have be largely a male preserve for a lot of the 23 year that I have be in the House , but tonight , for the first time , over half the nominee be woman , thank to pioneer work by woman producer and engineer such as Olga Fitzroy , Catherine Anne Davies and Hannah Peel , which be why we should have a debate on the Government ' s decision to reject the recommendation in the Women and Equalities Committee ' s " Misogyny in music " report . Naomi Pohl , the general secretary of the Musicians ' Union , have describe be shock at the fact that the Government have reject the recommendation , and the Chair of the Select Committee , the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) , say : " we have have platitude and reassurance , but still no action " . be the Leader of the House comfortable with what the Government have do ? if she be not , will she facilitate a debate to explore it far ? I think the improvement in the statistic that the hon . Gentleman give at the start of his question be something to be proud of and show that improvement be be make . I will certainly ensure that the relevant Department have hear what he have say . give that I be a member of the Government , I stand on the Government ' s position . and the prize for patience and perseverance go to Christian Wakeford . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . on Monday , the Official for National Statistics release its report on alcohol - specific death register in 2022 . there be 10 , 048 death relate to alcohol , which be a 32 . 8 % increase on pre - pandemic level and the high number on record . it have be over a decade since the Government last set out an alcohol strategy . can we have a statement from the Government on what they be do to tackle the issue and the stigma of addiction ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that important matter . I will ensure that the Department of Health and Social Care have hear what he have say . he will know that , in addition to that strategy , a huge amount of work have be go on in all part of our healthcare system to ensure that the right intervention be get to the right people , include , notably , alcohol screening service at hospital , which for many be now part of the standard process to go through when people be take into accident and emergency , help to identify those who need support , particular intervention , and , of course , an expansion of those service . Royal Assent before we proceed to the next item of business , I must notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act : Pedicabs ( London ) Act 2024 Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 . Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Act 2024 Points of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . now that you have indicate Royal Assent to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 , have you be give any indication by the Government as to whether they will make a statement to the House on when they intend to send people to Rwanda , which people they intend to send to Rwanda , and what will happen to the ten of thousand of people whom they will be unable to send to Rwanda ? I thank the hon . gentleman for her point of order — [ interruption . ] do I just call she a gentleman ? that isn ' t how I identify ! quite . take two : I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order , and I understand why she make it , but it be not one for the Chair . she know that she and many other have debate these matter for many , many hour in recent week , and I have personally hear she speak for hour , cumulatively , on the subject . the Government have reply to her question and those of other hon . member in so far as they be able to do so to . I be sure that the Leader of the House will have hear the hon . Lady ' s request for even more time for this business on the Floor of the House , but I should point out for the sake of clarity that many , many hour have be spend on that business in recent week . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . during the course of business question , my hon . friend the Member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) raise a point of order , understandably concerned about something the Leader of the House have say imply a lack of patriotism on the part of some member of Parliament . as I say early , I have be a Member for 23 year , and as a regular attender of business question , I do not remember it previously be possible to raise a point of order during the course of business question . can you clarify from the Chair for all of our benefit whether that be now something that be go to be permit , in case we want to do the same thing in future ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order , which be actually not a point of order , but a direct challenge to I on a decision that I take about an hour ago here in the Chamber . that be a matter of my judgment : the hon . Lady indicate to I that she wish to raise a point of order about a matter that have immediately occur in the Chamber , and I take the decision that it be reasonable for she to raise a point of order on that precise subject at that precise moment . rise — no , the hon . Gentleman can not come back . I be not have a debate with he about procedure . the rule be that a point of order can be take at any time if it be pertinent precisely to the matter that be currently before the House . may I make a further point of order ? I will allow the hon . gentleman to make a further point , but I be not have a debate with he in the Chamber , either about my judgment or about procedure . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be not attempt to call your judgment into question , and I apologise if that be the impression I give . I be simply try to clarify what the position be for hon . member who might wish to raise point of order . you have make that very clear , and I thank you for that clarification . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the question , and I be glad the matter be now close . ofsted ' s work with Schools Education Committee Select Committee statement we now proceed to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Education Committee . I will shortly call Mr Robin Walker , the Chairman of the Committee , who will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of his statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement , which should be brief question , not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct , not to the relevant Minister , but to the Select Committee Chair . Front Benchers may take part in questioning . I be grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to the Backbench Business Committee for the opportunity to make a statement on the Education Committee ' s report on Ofsted ' s work with school , to which the Government ' s response have be publish today . the response from Ofsted be publish on 11 March . I put on record my thank to the Clerks of our Committee for their brilliant work , to our expert adviser , and to all the teacher , leader , inspector , former inspector and education expert who contribute evidence . member of the Committee , as well as our witness , bring with they experience of the inspection process , both from the receiving end as teacher and governor and , in the case of my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) , as a former inspector . the pressure of local election mean that many member who contribute to the report can not be in the Chamber today , but I be glad that we be able to make all of our recommendation unanimously , and I be grateful for the contribution of member on all side of the House . our inquiry be call in the midst of heighten concern about school inspection follow the tragic event at Caversham Primary School . while the inquiry be not focus on that specific case and have to be careful to not trespass on the work of the coroner , which be ongoing for much of its duration , I pay tribute to the family of Ruth Perry for the dignified and thoughtful way in which they have seek to raise concern and ensure that lesson be learn and reform make . the coroner report just before the end of the inquiry , and we include in our report a commitment to follow up on all of their recommendation , something that I know every Member of my Committee be look forward to be able to do . we will be take evidence from the new chief inspector before the summer . the inquiry hear widespread agreement on the importance of an accountability system and the roll of an independent inspectorate , but also concern about stress and anxiety experience by school staff due to high stake nature of Ofsted ' s inspection . the report highlight criticism of how inspection be carry out and report , the workload they generate and the complaint system . we hear concern from current and former inspector about the length and depth of inspection , and we take evidence on the impact of successive framework over time . the Committee hear that relation between Ofsted and the school sector have become extremely strained , and that trust in the inspectorate be worryingly low . we say in our report that the appointment of a new chief inspector provide a crucial opportunity to restore trust and , in that regard , our first recommendation be that in his Big Listen with the sector , his Majesty ' s chief inspector must ensure that he listen to wide range of view , include those of teacher , school and trust leader , governor , parent and pupil . in do that , he must ensure that Ofsted be genuinely open to engage and willing to reflect on where it need to improve . we be glad that the process be treat seriously in both Ofsted and the Department ' s response . Ofsted say : " we have do much since January 2024 , but more — much more — be to come . we launch the Big Listen on Friday 8 March 2024 . we want to hear from those we work with and those we work for . we know that we need to do more . ensure inspection be carry out with professionalism , courtesy , empathy and respect and conduct a listening exercise be not enough . action must , and will , follow . we fundamentally believe that those action should not be base on the view of … hmci alone . that be why we be conduct a serious exercise to gather the view of as many people as possible , where nothing be off the table . " the Department place welcome emphasis on that Big listen in its response today . it mention the process no few than 20 time in the space of 15 page of response . the inquiry hear serious concern about the single - word judgment . the Committee have make recommendation to both Ofsted and the Department for Education to rethink the process , to consider serious alternative and to look at what other jurisdiction do inside and outside the United Kingdom in that respect . as part of that , we encourage they to use this process to engage in serious discussion about genuine alternative . we also encourage they both not just to focus on the overall judgment but to encourage school and the Department to look at all the sub - judgment reach within Ofsted report , and publicise those just as much as they do the headline judgment . in its response , Ofsted be clear that that be within the scope of the Big Listen . the Department stress what it see as the significant benefit of the current system , but be clear that it be continue to listen to the sector ' s view and to look at alternative to four single - word judgment , include look at " various approach take internationally " . that in itself would represent a welcome shift from some of the language use during our inquiry , and a welcome acknowledgment of the need to look at alternative . I be disappointed , however , that this morning the Department appear to have go far and rule out change to single - word judgment , prejudge the outcome of the consultation process and make any consideration of alternative system academic . minister would be well advise not to rule out any change . both they and Ofsted would be right to ensure that feedback from the Big Listen and a wide range of comparison can be take into account before final decision be make . we be glad that both Ofsted and the Department have emphasise the importance of all judgment , and set out step to improve the visibility of sub - judgment , as per our recommendation . in conjunction with that , the Committee say that DFE should reassess its policy of maintain school that receive two " require improvement " judgment be require to become academy . we also call on the Department to ensure that regional director who decide academisation order genuinely take into account the view of local stakeholder before make a decision , and call for an increase in its accountability to this House . DFE response say it keep this policy " under review and will have regard to stakeholder ' view . " it also argue that presumption in favour of academy order be rebuttable , and that " in each case the particular circumstance of the school , and the need of its pupil , will be assess in the round , in order to establish the good course of action . " the Department confirm : " in line with civil service convention across government , Regional Directors continue to be available to give evidence if call before Parliament . " however , it go on to say : " approval for their attendance before the Committee rest with the Secretary of State " . I hope that my Committee or its successor will be able to hear evidence directly from they . give the wide scope of their power and their importance within the system , that be an important element of accountability . the Committee also find broad agreement that inspection be not long enough to cover the full framework and give an accurate picture of a school ' s performance . give that there be finite funding , we accept that any increase to the length of inspection would require a decrease in their frequency , and we be clear that we do not wish to return to the previous exemption for outstanding school , which stay in place for too long . on balance , we recognise that there be a case to be make for a small reduction in the frequency of inspection to increase their value , length and depth . in the short term , the Department should work with Ofsted to enable the inspectorate to reduce the frequency of inspection to approximately five to six year for good and outstanding school , and three to four year for school judge " require improvement " or inadequate . that should be support by well use of risk assessment to identify the school most in need of inspection . Ofsted should use the additional resource release by that change to enable inspection to be carry out in more depth . in the long term , the Department should support Ofsted in make a strong case to the Treasury for additional funding to carry out in - depth inspection . funding for Ofsted should not be see as be in competition with school funding , and any additional funding for the inspectorate must not result in less funding be make available to school . Ofsted have be clear that it want to consult on the regularity and depth of inspection in the Big Listen , but it point out reasonably that change the five - year timeframe be not in its gift , as it be set in legislation . the Department have reject our recommendation that it should consider a reduction in the regularity of inspection to increase their depth , but it have acknowledge that it will work in partnership with Ofsted to ensure that it have appropriate resource to carry out its programme effectively . perhaps unsurprisingly , Ofsted state : " we very much welcome the Committee ' s commitment to support we in ask for additional funding for more in - depth inspection " . as an example , we could inspect school in great depth by ensure that every inspection be lead by one of his Majesty ' s inspector , and that each inspection team have an additional inspector . that could provide a number of additional benefit ; it would allow the team more time to look at a school ' s unique approach , and allow for a dedicated focus on a national priority area in each inspection . Ofsted have cost that at £ 8 . 5 million a year , and we hope that Ministers will consider that proposal in future spending review discussion with the Treasury . another area of key interest for the Committee be multi - academy trust accountability . my predecessor as Chair , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) , call on Ofsted to have a role in that . that be also call for in the " Beyond Ofsted " report by Lord Knight , and the idea have enjoy strong cross - party support in this Chamber . the Committee argue that the Department for Education should urgently authorise ofste to develop a framework for the inspection of MATs , and set out plan for build expertise and capacity in this area . in its response , Ofsted state : " we welcome Recommendation 28 , and the Committee agree with our evidence that inspection of MATs be appropriate and inevitable . " the DFE ' s response say that it " continue to actively consider how we might strengthen " scrutiny of MATs . it add : " this might include the role of Ofsted . we look forward to hear view on this issue through Ofsted ' s Big Listen " . we welcome the change in tone in this response . when the former Schools Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) , give evidence to the Committee during our inquiry , he appear strongly oppose to MAT inspection . we have press the urgency of action in this space , and it feel like it be a step close . give the large and grow role that MATs play in the school system , we continue to believe that mechanism for their accountability need to be strong . I welcome the acceptance of our recommendation 1 , 2 , 9 , 15 , 17 and 27 by Ofsted , and its commitment to explore recommendation 1 , 3 , 5 , 10 , 13 , 20 to 22 and 24 and 25 through the Big Listen . the one recommendation that Ofsted reject be for an independent review of the challenge for inspector retention , but it do so on the basis that it feel that it already know the answer to those challenge , and that a review would not be good use of taxpayer ' money , which we can understand . we welcome the respect that the Government have show to the Big listen through their response , but recognise that many will not be satisfy by conversation and will continue to call for more urgent reform . the Government ' s response highlight important change , include for those school rate inadequate purely on the basis of safeguarding . those can be rapidly re - inspect , which be certainly a welcome change . there be hopeful sign about the new chief inspector ' s intent , but the Committee will continue to hold he and the inspectorate to account for how they deliver . I want to give member the opportunity to respond , so I will conclude by say that what our Committee hear overall be that Ofsted be need and play an important role in the system , but it need to change . we will continue to hold the Department and the inspectorate to account for the change that we need to see . I thank the Chair of the Education Committee for bring forward this statement , follow the Committee ' s much - need inquiry and report on this issue . in the report , he rightly extend his condolence and gratitude to the family , friend and colleague of Ruth Perry , all of whom have contribute to this report at an incredibly difficult time . labour welcome the finding on ofsted single - word judgment , but the Government seem to have defend the indefensible in their response . the current system be high - stake for teacher and low - information for parent . like his cross - party Committee , we believe that it must be reform . far to the Chair ' s comment , do he agree that the Government should look again at the response that the Committee receive from those across the sector , who overwhelmingly want to reform the system , just as Labour consider the sector when set out our plan for report card , which have be welcome by the former chief inspector ? similarly , on inspection of multi - academy trust , the Government seem simply to have ignore a recommendation that Ofsted ' s chief inspector have call " inevitable " . will the Chair therefore outline what conversation he have have with Ministers on the issue , and any further work that his Committee might do in this area ? finally , the Committee ' s inquiry do not appear to extend to inclusion be part of ofsted inspection framework . labour propose to ensure that child with special educational need and disability have access to clear information , and that their parent understand their child ' s school in that regard . will the Chair and his Committee look at that ? I thank he again for the thorough and timely work that he and the Committee have undertake , and for the light that it have shed on this important and press issue . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her response . she raise some important point . I express my disappointment that the Government seem to have rule out our recommendation that we move away from single - word judgment and explore alternative . it be important that the Big Listen be a proper process of listening and engagement , and that it can reach its own conclusion . I be more inclined to agree with what be say in Ofsted ' s response about nothing be off the table . there be an extremely strong case for MAT inspection . that case have be hear by those in all part of the House ; it be a reflection of the maturity of MATs and their huge contribution to the school system , which the Government ' s response acknowledge , that we be have this debate . there be a significant move forward in the tone of the Government ' s response on that . I welcome the fact that they be actively explore the option . of course , that need to be do proportionately , and we need to ensure that it do not increase the burden on any school . I be sure that can be work through by the Department . I have some sympathy for the idea that inclusion need to be consider . in previous Committee session — I know this happen under the previous Chair — we test that idea in many respect , and some previous recommendation of the Committee have be feed into the framework , such as the recommendation that no school should be rate good or outstanding for performance unless its performance for special educational need pupil be good or outstanding . it be important to acknowledge that some progress have be make on that front , but I believe that balance attainment and inclusion be always important , throughout education , so that be an interesting contribution . of course , because that be not part of Government policy or the current framework , it be not within the term of reference for our inquiry . I congratulate my hon . friend on the report , and I welcome the recommendation on ofsted supervision of MATs , but may I turn to career advice in school ? my first ever speech in the House of Commons — my maiden speech — be about try to encourage more school to encourage student to do apprenticeship , as well as to go to university . while much progress have be make on this issue — we be in a very different world in 2024 from that of 2010 — there be still much more work to be do , include on inform student in all school that there be great t - level offering , and great apprenticeship offering as well . do he agree that Ofsted need much tough measure on ensure that school encourage student to take up all the apprenticeship and other skill offering , so that student have choice other than go to university ? my right hon . friend know more about this issue than almost anyone else in the House , and have make a huge contribution to the debate on skill . he be , of course , absolutely right about the importance of career advice , and of signpost people towards vocational opportunity in school . this be the subject of an inquiry and a report that he as Chair bequeath to I when he move on . it be about career education , information , advice and guidance . in that report , we make recommendation that Ofsted should align its work on personal development and its work in this space with the Gatsby benchmark . the work he do on put those benchmark more prominently in our education system , both as Chair of the Select Committee and subsequently as a Minister , be vital to the success of that process , so I congratulate he on that . we absolutely think that need to be part of this role . our one wariness be that we do not want to recommend a huge slew of thing that Ofsted should be add to the inspection process or framework , because we do not want to increase the workload or pressure on teacher and leader . all these thing need to be look at in proportion , but there be absolutely a place for ensure that school provide the right career advice and range of opportunity to student . I thank the Chair and the Committee for their excellent work on this very important matter . I also pay tribute to my constituent Ruth Perry , who be an outstanding headteacher . the event at Caversham Primary must never be allow to happen again . I also commend the work by Julia Waters , Ruth ' s sister , and local campaigner and head in the read area , as well as other across the country , who have listen and call for ofsted reform . I offer my wholehearte support for an end to the single - word judgment , and for wide ofsted reform , as mention by my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) on our Front Bench . what step do the Committee Chair believe the Government should take now , give their unfortunate announcement this morning ? do he believe that the response from the Department for Education and Ofsted so far have be remotely adequate , particularly the suggestion about use a former chief inspector to mark Ofsted ' s homework , and continue to ignore concern raise by he and the coroner about this serious matter ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for the way in which he have engage on this issue , and for rightly champion the interest of his late constituent and her sister , who have engage with this process in good faith throughout . she have have meeting with the Secretary of State and the new chief inspector of Ofsted , and I know that she be not satisfied that the Government have go far enough . I urge the Government and Ofsted to ensure that the Big Listen be a genuine process that take nothing off the table , and to respond in depth to the feedback on that . it be absolutely legitimate for the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent to raise concern about the independence of the person appoint to look into this matter , but I point out that other organisation , include the National Education Union , not notably a friend of Ofsted , have praise the appointee for their independence . this matter will have to be consider carefully . it be vital that the process be see to be conduct independently of both the current and former management of Ofsted , and that it offer genuine insight into what go wrong at Caversham and how that can be put right . it be important to acknowledge the change in both the ofsted and Government response today — the step already take to provide well support to headteacher , and the change in the approach to school that be rate inadequate on one factor , which will get the opportunity to be reinspecte . it be also worth put on the record that subsequent to inspection , Caversham Primary be rate good , which show that that approach can and should work . as a member of the Select Committee on Education , I thank my hon . friend for his excellent statement , and for the fantastic report on which it be base . I also thank my hon . friend for be a brilliant Chair of the Committee . it be an almost impossible job to take on , give the big boot he have to fill . I see the former Select Committee Chair , my right hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) , in his place ; he literally put the word " degree apprenticeship " into the " Oxford English Dictionary " . I want to talk about the report ' s recommendation 28 . the Committee strongly recommend that the process for multi - academy trust inspection be deliver urgently . that recommendation be also make by predecessor and other , and be indeed be accept by Ofsted . I be pleased about the change in tone from the Government and that they be " actively " consider this , but do my hon . friend agree we need to go far ? do he agree that , give that MATs be now the big part of the education system , we need to go beyond " actively " consider ? we must accept these recommendation , and the MAT inspection regime should be deliver urgently . in a word , yes . a long time ago when I be a teacher at Radyr Comprehensive School and the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) be a pupil there , we be inspect . it be a necessary part of the system but can be very challenging for all concerned . I very much welcome the — if I may use a single word — outstanding report from the Select Committee today and I be very disappointed that the Government have not accept its recommendation . one be about extend the length of time before school that be give an outstanding rating be re - inspect . some year ago the Government have to row back from allow school rate as outstanding to go uninspected for as long as 15 year , with the result that on re - inspection more than 80 % be downgrade . as we have hear over and again in the Chamber , that be a statistical fix to make it look as if there be more outstanding school in the country . be the hon . Gentleman confident that if the period be extend we could avoid leave school with a previous outstanding finding to languish uninspected when there be in fact problem in those school ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point , as he often do . when I become a Minister in the Department , one of the first question I ask official be whether that exception be still in place and whether if it be we could end it , and I be relieve to discover that my predecessor my right hon . friend the Member for Bognor Regis and Littlehampton ( Nick Gibb ) have already remove that " outstanding " exception . if he have not do that , I would have do so , because I share many of the hon . Gentleman ' s concern about the length such finding be in place . that be clearly a mistake and it build up pressure in the system , which be deeply unfortunate in some circumstance . we have now go back to a five - yearly cycle . what we be query be whether we could be more risk - base in our approach . all school should be inspect on a regular basis , but we make the argument for good and outstanding school to be inspect slightly less regularly , and for those which require improvement or be judge inadequate to be inspect more regularly , so that they have the opportunity to turn themselves around quickly . I understand and respect the reason why the Government might not think that that be appropriate and feel the need for a level playing field . they reject that [ art of the recommendation , but we anticipate that they might do so and therefore also recommend that they need to help Ofsted make the case to the Treasury for the funding necessary to do all the inspection properly , particularly for school in need of a turnaround — school which know they need to improve and which need the resource and support of an in - depth inspection that engage with teacher across the board . that be the case we be make and I read the Government ' s response as a partial acceptance of that case , albeit not one that put we at any risk of return to a situation where school languish uninspected for long period of time . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . this House be both the good and bad workplace in the world for those with a disability or disadvantage . the reason I raise this be that constantly lift do not work , button do not work in lift , door do not work properly and toilet be always out of order and take month to fix . just below the Chamber on the low ground floor there be toilet that have be out for almost six month on end and no one ever seem to be there do anything to fix they . this be not acceptable any long . I have be here for 14 year and , while every single member of staff be incredibly kind , especially the Doorkeepers , I find it incredible that thing have get bad over the past 14 year in term of door be shut , lift not work , button not work , lift door not work , toilet be out of order , and people who should not be use disabled toilet use they . we do nothing about it , yet we publish press statement say we be inclusive and diverse employer but that mean nothing to anyone . so may I urge you , Madam Deputy Speaker , Mr Speaker and the other Deputy Speakers to look at this issue with the Serjeant at arm and get these facility fix once and for all so that people with disadvantage can go about their business without have to worry about door be shut and toilet be break and the other thing I have mention ? as the right hon . Gentleman may know , it might be appropriate to raise those matter with the Administration Committee as well , but I will certainly ensure that his comment be feed back . the Deputy Serjeant at Arms be present , and I be sure that he will be one of those feed it back . I be very sorry to hear of the experience that the right hon . Gentleman have describe . of course it be right that those facility should be in good working order , and that there should be proper provision for people with disability . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . we really should not be have too many point of order at this stage , but I will take the hon . Lady ' s point of order if it relate to something that have just be say . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . follow what be say by the right hon . member for Harlow ( Robert Halfon ) , I want to add that I have recently notice that additional security door have be introduce around the estate , and they require a pass to be swipe . there be nothing to enable blind or partially sight people to understand that , and in an emergency it could cost they their life . could this be add to the list of thing that you will feed back , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I will certainly add that to the feedback that we will give . Backbench Business Lesbian Visibility Week I beg to move , that this House have consider the importance of Lesbian Visibility Week ; and believe LGBTQIA woman and non - binary people should be recognise for the work they do and the joy they bring . Lesbian Visibility Week be found in 2019 by the publisher of DIVA Magazine , my good friend Linda Riley — and I be delighted to welcome Linda to the House today . for the past five year we have set aside this week in April to celebrate and uplift lesbian everywhere , from all background and all walk of life , and we be a community that grow strong each and every year for it . forty year ago this year , I take my mum to see the " Rocky Horror Show " , and at dinner I tell she that I be a lesbian . I distinctly remember her response : " yeah — and ? " of course she already know ; as a colleague point out yesterday , if I be ever in the closet , the closet must have be make of glass . I be incredibly lucky to have friend and family to lean on when I face and overcome the many barrier that most lesbian have to deal with because , sadly , it be still the case that for so many such support be just not there . however , that do not mean that my journey and deal with come out be easy . there be stigma , and there be people our community be lose and not talk about . the feeling of loneliness and isolation lead I to move to Newcastle in 1989 , and until I be elect to represent my wonderful Jarrow constituency in 2019 , I barely come back to London . see so many people celebrate and recognise Lesbian Visibility Week give I hope that this and future generation of lesbian will be accept — and that be thank to those who come before we , pave the way . when I host a reception in Parliament on Monday night in partnership with DIVA magazine and the LGBT Foundation , there be an incredible turnout from activist , campaign organisation , and member of both Houses . I be so grateful for the fact that so many friend and colleague join we at our first ever parliamentary reception : I think that be the large number of lesbian that we have ever have in Parliament at any one time . at the event we hear about the medium narrative that lesbian be disappear , but we be not . we be in our ascendancy : there be more lesbian than ever . the number of woman who identify as lesbian have increase by 64 % since 2014 . instead of be erase , we be multiply . as many member will know , I have dedicate most of my political career to campaign for LGBTQIA + equality . my first political activism be campaign against section 28 , and highlight the damage that it do and continue to do to our community . to go from campaign against section 28 , to stop LGBTQIA + people be force to hide , to hold a debate on lesbian visibility in the gay Parliament in the world be some feat , and something that an 18 - year - old I could never have imagine . however , I also could not have imagine that 40 year later I would still be challenge the same homophobic language , include comment about LGBTQIA + people be a danger to child . it have to be say that the slur currently be throw at the trans community , and at I for be supportive of that community , be a carbon copy of the hate we face in the 1980 . my hon . friend be make an incredible speech . do she agree that hate be hate ? some of the hate we hear remind I of the hate that my parent hear when they be be subject to vile racist abuse . yes , hate be hate , and it be unacceptable in any form . we defeat it then , in the ' 80 , and we will defeat this hate and discrimination now . let I return to my come out . although I have a supportive family , when I come out " lesbian " be still a dirty word , a word throw at I at school in a derogatory way . if you be a lesbian you be see as unnatural . you be chase out of girl ' bathroom — that have , in fact , happen to I in recent year — and you be sexualise by man far old than you , which be something that lesbian still face today . it be 10 year after I come out that I buy my first copy of a magazine call DIVA . there be nothing else like it at the time ; there be nothing else for my generation that help lesbian to feel include , and that magazine help I to feel less alone . that be 30 year ago — so happy birthday , DIVA , and thank you . in the last 30 year DIVA have be a lifeline for many woman , and it be DIVA and Linda Riley who launch Lesbian Visibility Week . DIVA be much more than a magazine : as it tell we , it be a movement . it have an annual Power List , and for the first time , in 2024 , I have make it . to travel from be that young , lonely lesbian 30 year ago buy my first copy to be include in this list have make I feel honoured and deeply grateful . it be a privilege to be name alongside colleague and other brilliant activist , include the hon . member for Livingston ( Hannah Bardell ) , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) and the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Mhairi Black ) . today , I feel proud to see so many LGBTQIA + woman bask in the freedom to explore their sexuality in way that many woman could not , only a few year ago . the hon . Lady have remind I of a thought that I once have : something that I feel very strongly when the Bill that become the marriage ( same Sex Couples ) Act 2013 be pass . I have a young daughter , and I feel that if I have two daughter and one be straight and the other be a lesbian , I would want they to have the same quality of life , the same protection under the law , and the same right to love whoever they want to love . do the hon . Lady feel that we have make progress towards a situation in which that will be the case ? unfortunately , I have to say that we have go backwards in recent time . I think we would be far forward than we be , but when I look back to some year ago , I see that that be not the case . week like this really matter . they show solidarity , and they enable we to support each other and help we to celebrate our difference , embrace the whole LGBTQIA + community . too often people seek to divide we , but as the theme of this Lesbian Visibility Week show , we be unified , not uniform . we be here to be fabulous in our difference and to be see , to let other know that they can be their true self . we have to use our own experience to help people , and to use our platform to give LGBTQIA + people space . that be what Lesbian Visibility Week be about . that be why I be hold this debate . an often - use expression be that we stand on the shoulder of giant , which we do , and I want to honour just a few of the wonderful woman who have give so much to our community and be inspirational to I and to so many other . in the 1970 , Maureen Colquhoun make history by become the first openly out lesbian in Parliament . her courageous act in the face of media hostility have mean that so many of we can stand in this Chamber today and follow in her footstep . my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) be an iconic lesbian in Parliament . the first to come out in office , and now a dame , she be a role model to many , break down barrier as the first lesbian Minister and always fight for equality by use her platform to stand up for our community . of course , there be brilliant woman who be the drive force behind so many political and campaigning movement . Lisa Power be one of the found member of Stonewall in 1989 . like I , she be a volunteer at the Lesbian and Gay Switchboard . Lisa have lead a decade - long fight on behalf of people live with HIV . there be woman such as the brilliant Sue Sanders , the founder of LGBT + history Month , and Baroness Barker , who lead the first ever debate in the other place on lesbian , bisexual and transgender woman ' s health . there be historic queer trailblazer such as Anne Lister , who be fabulously represent by Suranne Jones in " Gentleman Jack " . I be distraught when I find out that " Gentleman Jack " would not be return for a third season . for the first time , I see someone on tv who represent I , so much so that I be even tell that we look alike , to which I respond , " I wish ! " — but I do love wear a waistcoat . the wonderful Sophie Ward be a trailblazer for LGBTQIA + right . as an actress and model , she be one of the first high - profile woman to come out as a lesbian in 1997 . the brilliant Phyll Opoku - Gyimah be a wonderful campaigner and the founder of UK Black Pride . Dame Kelly Holmes be a sport hero to we all . she be an icon who be instrumental in the fight to address the vile mistreatment of LGBTQIA + veteran and those who be still in the Army , and she be now empower woman through her Athena Effect event . of course , there be also Linda Riley , one of my good friend , who be the founder of Lesbian Visibility Week and publisher of DIVA magazine . she be a titan who have do so much for lesbian , and who I know will do so much more in her lifetime . let we not forget another good friend of mine , Nancy Kelley , who be in the Gallery today . Nancy have recently be appoint as the director of Lesbian Visibility Week . she have already be a trailblazer as chief executive of Stonewall and an award - win human right and social justice campaigner . she be a champion of LGBTQIA + right who always stand up for our community , so I be excited to see what big and bright thing be next for Lesbian Visibility Week in the year to come . although there be a lot to celebrate , it be important that we do not forget the challenge that lesbian still face . in fact , in celebrate Lesbian Visibility Week , I have face some awful homophobic remark on social medium , simply for be open about my sexuality . I have be call a " nonce " and have threat on Twitter — or x . I receive a constant barrage of homophobic abuse , but such abuse will not stop I stand here or speak up on behalf of my community . the toxic culture on social medium , and the toxic narrative from the Government , at time , in push their war on woke make LGBTQIA + people less safe . we have see a rise in hate crime , and we must make active effort to support our non - binary and trans community , who still face unique day - to - day challenge simply for be themselves and love who they love . last October I lead a debate call on the Government to remove the additional financial burden for same - sex couple who need to access in vitro fertilisation . the Minister commit then to a timetable to remove the barrier and bring forward a statutory instrument to end the postcode lottery for same - sex couple seek IVF , so where be it ? the legislation have still not materialise . before qualify for IVF on the NHS , same - sex female couple must fund six cycle of artificial insemination , so it come as no surprise that too often people be be price out of start a family . my constituent Holly and Leanne have have to choose between buy a house or have a baby — a decision that couple should never be force to make . they have be unable to afford IVF and be now , like so many , look at alternative route . we need to see action , because many can not wait any long . today we be tell that young people be too woke and that it be fine for young LGBTQIA + people when they come out , yet the reality be often very different . LGBTQIA + child be twice as likely as other to be bully . some young LGBTQIA + people be still kick out and make homeless when they come out , and many do not feel safe where they live . the Albert Kennedy Trust report that 77 % of young LGBTQ + people give family rejection , abuse or be ask to leave home as a cause for their homelessness . a DIVA survey in 2024 show that less than a third of LBQ + woman and tran people in the UK feel safe where they live . to have this continue today be dystopian . just yesterday , I ask the Deputy Prime Minister about IVF provision and point out that the LGBTQIA + community be be let down . his response be that the Government have be " excellent " , but I can tell the House that none of the lesbian I have speak to this week think the Government be excellent at anything . we must use our platform and our ability to speak up , to highlight our diversity and to look at the impact of intersectionality . we must consider how the world be for lesbian of colour and lesbian with disability , and how the gender health gap and gender pay gap negatively impact on we all but in different way . I be privileged to be able to stand up in Parliament and say all this , because in a third of country across the world , include 64 UN member state , it be illegal to be LGBTQIA + . until we have win equality for all people globally , the fight go on . I wish everyone a happy and safe Lesbian Visibility Week . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) on secure this debate and on her excellent speech . at first I think , " what be I go to say in this debate ? " , because I be not a lesbian , but I have stand in this Chamber and speak on many issue . the thing be , you do not have to be a lesbian to speak in this debate ; what you have to be be a good person . you have to be a person who believe in equality and fairness — that be what be important . as my hon . friend the Member for Jarrow say , Lesbian Visibility Week be create by a bestie of our , Linda Riley , who be in the Gallery today . she have fight all her life to be hear and to be her authentic self , and what she want more than anything be for everybody else to have that same privilege . yesterday we watch a documentary , " the Life of Riley " . as an activist and a butch lesbian , Linda have support everybody in the lbgtqi + community . she can do that and support trans people because the two thing be not mutually exclusive . I believe it be more important to know what be in people ' s heart than what be in their pant , and that we should spend more time talk about what be in people ' s heart . nobody want to erase lesbian — honestly , I would feel sorry for anyone who try — and this debate highlight that . I remember my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) — I be sorry if I mispronounce her constituency — talk about her experience when she be a teacher . her girlfriend be sick , and my hon . friend be unable to talk about it in her workplace because she be not out . we should all think very carefully about that in relation to allow people to be their authentic self . another lesbian , Sally , come out at work during Lesbian Visibility Week . it stop a lot of man come on to she , which she be grateful for , but some other man think , " oh , I ' ll give it a try . " get over it . some woman be lesbian — get over it . Linda welcome lesbian and make they feel safe in her environment . I have watch how she look after the people my hon . friend the Member for Jarrow mention — people like Kelly Holmes , who keep her sexuality secret because of her time in the Army , but who be now an activist and advocate , and engage to a wonderful , beautiful woman call Louise . that be the power of allow people to be their authentic self and just allow they to live , give they space to grow and be happy . I do not care who people love . as long as it be legal , love who you like . the world would be a well place if there be more love . there be too much hate right now , and I think we need more love in the world . as my hon . Friend say , in some country , two consent same - sex people be not allow to love each other . that be wrong . Linda talk about LGB with the t . the trans debate have be extremely toxic . the debate in this House last week make trans kid and trans adult feel like they do not exist , like we want to erase they . this be the mother of all Parliaments ; we should not have debate in this place that make people feel that they do not exist or that we want they to be erase . I spend a lot of time over the weekend speak to Dr Cass , and I be grateful to she for her time . she be advise not to travel on public transport because of her report — before it be even publish . some people , include some mp , imply that I have contribute to that , but Dr Cass say I could quote she say that that be " absolutely ridiculous " . I feel really hurt and offend because they encourage a pile - on on I over the weekend . I say to those who think they can silence I and stop I stick up for marginalised or minoritise group , think again . that be literally what I have be elect to do in this place — to speak up for people who may not be able to speak up for themselves — and I be not go to stop . People be make thing up about I . they should read my book , which I be happy to plug . " a purposeful Life " — out in all good bookshop now — be clear about why I be an activist and why I campaign the way I do . as I discuss in my book , the Equality Act 2010 and the Gender Recognition Act 2004 have no bearing on each other . therefore , you can be a feminist and stick up for the right of woman , and also be a trans ally . that , I think , show the very good of humanity , and we all need a little bit more of that . it be a real privilege to speak in this debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) on secure it and on her excellent opening speech . I also thank our fantastic ally , our hon . friend the Member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) , for all that she do — for the pertinent point she make about support the whole LGBT community and for all the work she have do in stand up for tran people . I must not forget our hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , an outstanding champion who , long before many of we be in Parliament , be fly the flag in what be a very lonely place at the time . it be also a real privilege to attend the event on Monday that my hon . friend the Member for Jarrow organise and to meet Linda Riley , the publisher of Diva , and Professor Sue Sanders , the co - founder of LGBT History Month . just to be among such people be such an honour for someone like I . think back to 30 year ago , Diva be quite a lifeline for people as isolate as we be in south - west Wales , perhaps not know anyone quite like we and certainly not want to be open about ourselves because we be worried about society ' s reaction . at the time of section 28 , I be in a relationship with another woman , both of we be teacher and this be very inhibiting . as I have previously say in this Chamber and in Westminster Hall , it be a very difficult time — a time when it be not easy to challenge the homophobic bullying that be go on then and which still go on now . I thank all those who be braver than I be and come out soon than I do . I apologise to the House for intervene , but I have to go with my wife to celebrate she 17 year as chancellor of the University of Hull . the hon . Lady be rightly talk about the bullying and the fear she experience . there have be some of that more recently . I start to become conscious of some of the issue when Kathleen Stock be be bully mercilessly in Sussex . we ought to be careful . if I be to make a speech in this debate , I would say that two of the great event I have be to be the LGB Alliance conference meeting , which be picket by people who seem to hate the people inside . they would not come inside to listen ; they be shout outside . that kind of attitude have echo of what speaker today have talk about . as my hon . friend the Member for Brent Central have say , there be real need to approach these thing in a calm and appropriate way , and to respect everybody ' s different way of manifest their humanity . what for I be very telling be the fact that I come out when my relationship break up . it be almost impossible to hide grief . it be ironic that , have spend a considerable period not be open and try not to make it obvious that we be in a relationship , it be when we do not " need " that hide approach any more that I come out . it be incredibly difficult to explain to people why you be in such a state of grief if you do not explain the relationship . what be interesting about that be not only the reaction of very supportive friend , which be great , but find that some people have never guess ; I be quite shocked and surprise by that . it be strange to realise that we be more hidden than we understand , because people do not see lesbian . that show the importance of Lesbian Visibility Week . perhaps because society be so male - dominate and woman be marginalise in many respect , or perhaps because woman be more likely to be see do thing together , hold hand or go on holiday with other woman , we be not even notice . one of the important aspect of raise lesbian visibility be enable people to be their natural self and enable other people to recognise that . of course that have mean over the year that woman be perhaps not the subject of homophobic legislation . in many way , it reflect the role of woman as society be then and that woman be very marginalise and not see . that be perhaps part of the wide picture of where woman be . there have be workplace stereotype : woman have to dress in a certain way and behave in a certain way towards heterosexual man , or they be expect to do so . when they do not , be that as lesbian or as heterosexual woman , it can be interpret negatively , which have often hold lesbian woman back over the year . it be a form of discrimination and stereotyping that have have pernicious result . it be not enough for we to hope that attitude can change . Hope be not enough . we all have a responsibility to challenge , and to use our legislative power to strengthen our challenge through legislation . we be proud , as a Labour Government from 1997 to 2010 , to do a number of important thing that help LGBT right , include end the ban on LGBT people serve in our armed force , end discrimination against lesbian and gay partner for immigration purpose , and give LGBT individual and couple the right to adopt child . of course , we scrap section 28 , which be very important for people like I , but we also ban discrimination in the workplace and in vocational training with the introduction of the Employment Equality ( Sexual Orientation ) Regulations 2003 . we also include homophobia in the definition of hate crime . sadly , we have see a rise in hate crime in recent year , to which I draw the Government ' s attention . in particular , I ask that more should be do to tackle homophobic , include transphobic , hate crime . of course , we create civil partnership and award statutory right to fertility treatment for lesbian on the NHS but , as my hon . friend the Member for Jarrow say , there be a long way to go on equal and fair access . I hope the Minister have listen to what she say today , and to what she say to the Deputy Prime Minister yesterday , and I hope progress can be make on this soon rather than later . although we have make progress , we know that , in many respect , there be a lot to do to stop attitude regress in this country but also internationally . woman be hardly notice or recognise in many country and , if they be , they be certainly not allow to be in same - sex relationship . again , I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . with other in this House , I hope I can play my part in secure great lesbian visibility . I call the SNP spokesperson . Lesbian Visibility Week should be about lesbian , but the website put up this week say it be about " celebrate the power of sisterhood by uplift incredible LGBTQIA woman and non - binary people " . I think it be a real shame that , in the week about our visibility , the lesbian identity be be subsume into a number of other identity that have nothing to do with be a same - sex - attract woman . many lesbian fundamentally disagree with this , and I want to speak up for they today . they need someone to speak up for they . it be a mark of how marginalised lesbian have become in our society that so few hon . member have turn up today . it be the reason I be speak from the SNP Front Bench , despite have be remove from it several year ago , partly for be the wrong sort of lesbian and one who do not believe that the right of man who say they be woman should trump those of lesbian . before I go any far , I declare an interest as a supporter of LGB Alliance and a member of the advisory board of both the Lesbian Project and Sex Matters . but my main interest in this issue be that I be a lesbian . I come out in the 1980 , when homophobia and lesbophobia be still rife across the UK , and my first activism be against clause 28 . in those time , like many other lesbian , I be physically assault in the street and mock for be a lesbian . lesbian of my generation also face lose our job and our child . for a long time , we think that lesbophobia have go , but lesbophobia be back , and it have be create by those who think that the right of lesbian be conditional on they accept gender identity ideology . they be not . lesbian be same - sex - attract woman , and we be protect on that basis from discrimination , bullying and harassment under the Equality Act , under which our protect characteristic be sexual orientation . our protection be on the basis of our sex , not our gender . and as J . k . rowling have say , without sex there can be no same - sex attraction . that be why lesbian like I fight the replacement of the biological reality of sex with the nebulous concept of gender . I say a moment ago that the right of lesbian be " not conditional " on accept gender identity theory . that be a direct quote from my friend Allison Bailey . as some member will know , Allison Bailey be a black lesbian barrister who nearly lose her job for stand up for the right of lesbian . other lesbian have face similar persecution . my friend Kate Harris , Bev Jackson and Eileen Gallagher have to fight a lengthy court battle to protect their charity , LGB Alliance , from be remove from the charity register as a result of malicious legal action . Justice prevail and they win the case but , shamefully , those who seek to destroy a charity run by lesbian for lesbian include member of this House , and it be not the first time that member of this House have display hostility towards lesbian . as the Father of the House say a moment ago , when I be invite to speak on a cross - party panel at the first LGB Alliance conference back in October 2021 , I face the challenge of cross a picket line that include a heterosexual female mp who , together with self - style trans right activist , be protest against the right of lesbian to organise a conference to talk about lesbian and gay right . just let that sink in . that be where we have get to — heterosexual tell lesbian that we can not hold a conference . many lesbian have be persecute for refuse to bend their knee to gender identity ideology . some have face lose their job and their livelihood , and some have also face violence or the threat of violence . I will name a few of they this afternoon . all be or have become my friend as a result of our struggle : Lucy Masoud , Professor Kathleen Stock , Julie Bindel , Professor Jo Phoenix and my dear friend Dr Shereen Benjamin , a Labour activist who have be treat appallingly by the University of Edinburgh . there be many other lesbian whose life have be severely restrict by gender identity zealot . we be not allow to have lesbian - only social event . the only venue leave for lesbian say that they be inclusive , which mean that man be include . woman ' s sport be also now inclusive , which mean that they include man while exclude lesbian who want to play on woman - only team . recently , a lesbian come to view democracy in action at the Scottish Parliament be tell by security that she could not enter the building wear a small pin badge read " Scottish Lesbians . " I be wear that same badge today in solidarity with scottish Lesbians , which be an excellent grassroots lesbian collective . across the United Kingdom , lesbian have be intimidate at Pride marche , spat on and assault for simply assert their right to say that lesbian be same - sex attract . at a recent event for woman in Edinburgh , man counter - protester hold up vile , abusive lesbophobic sign . the police do nothing because , for all the furore in Scotland about hate crime , it seem that hate direct at lesbian do not count . I do not believe that the interest of lesbian be be properly represent by organisation such as Stonewall and the organiser of Lesbian Visibility Week because , in their determination to promote gender identity ideology and to keep themselves in a job by do so , not only do they fail to represent lesbian but they actually promote lesbian invisibility and lesbian erasure . Most people think it be absurd to say that a man can be a lesbian , or to say that lesbian can have penis , and they be right . it be absurd . I be proud to be able to stand up in Lesbian Visibility Week in the House of Commons and say so . I be proud that I can stand up to speak for the lesbian who reject the forced teaming of lesbian with other group that have completely different issue from we . I say : stop lump we together with those other group , as it have the effect that our interest be obscure or overlook altogether , and it render we invisible . interestingly , back in 2021 the " Inclusive Britain " report find that aggregate term such as BAME be " no long helpful " , take no account of the differ need and outcome of those include under that umbrella , and should be drop . the report ' s finding be adopt and the acronym BAME be no long use in government . I , like many other lesbian , think that the same principle should be apply to acronym such as LGBTQIA + , so that lesbian be not force - team with other identity . I be reflect on the speech we hear from the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) , and what we could all benefit from in this debate be a bit more love and compassion . anybody who be set out to do anything other than demonstrate love to people who do or think differently perhaps need to think again . yes , but there also have to be room for difference and for someone such as I to speak up on behalf of some lesbian who feel the way that I do — we be quite large in number . I do not pretend to speak for all lesbian , but none of the other lesbian in this House speak for all lesbian either . I be put forward what I consider to be a valid viewpoint . most importantly , it be one back by the law of this land . I be constrain by not have as much time as I would have like . I would have like to have talk about the Cass report and how it have identify that a large percentage of girl present with gender dysphoria be same - sex attract young woman . I would like to have have time to talk about how important it be that we do not shut down holistic talking therapy for such young woman . however , I be go to bring my comment to a close by say this : in my belief , in the view of many lesbian and in the eye of the law , a lesbian be a woman whose sexual orientation be towards other woman . those who think lesbian include man be delude . you can not be a responsible lawmaker if you believe that any man can be a woman just by say so . that be an old joke worthy of the bad night in student union bar back in my youth , with drunk testosterone - fuel man tell I and other lesbian that all we need be the right man . in future , let we try to retain our grasp on what a lesbian be . many lesbian be sick of be boss about by all those who promote their cult belief that gender trump sex — it do not ; it never have and it never will . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) on secure this debate , the first on Lesbian Visibility Week in parliamentary time . I congratulate she on her inclusion in the DIVA 2024 power list . her sharing of she come out story today be generous and powerful . she also remind we of all the trailblazer and giant upon whose shoulder we stand . she also talk about the homophobic abuse she face on a daily basis , and I applaud she for her courage and insistence that she will not be silence . my hon . friend the Member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) talk about the importance of everyone be able to be their authentic self . I be also strike by what my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) say about how , as lesbian , we have often be more hidden than she think , because for so long lesbian be not notice , not consider and marginalise ; we be not see even when we be not hide . as have be say , Lesbian Visibility Week be found in 2020 by Linda Riley , the publisher of DIVA magazine . it be a global event that aim to celebrate LGBT + woman and non - binary people everywhere , and to increase lesbian visibility . today be an opportunity for we to reflect upon the history of lesbian Members of this place , to celebrate the progress that have be make to make Britain a well place in which to live as a lesbian , and to recognise the issue that our community still face and the progress that be still to be make . when I be young , lesbian role model be few and far between ; be openly gay be just not something that be present in the public psyche , and I could not then imagine a lesbian be able to exist , never mind be happy . Lesbian Visibility Week be an opportunity for we to celebrate not only that we exist , but that we be a diverse community . we do not all look like each other , behave like each other and agree with each other , but more often than not we can be unite , although we be not uniform ; fundamentally , you can not tell by look . today ' s debate be a chance to usualise we , and to show that lesbian be everywhere and not in niche , discrete community . we be in workplace , community , school , church , temple , synagogue , mosque and family , and , yes , we be in Parliament too . how many time be lesbian expect to ' " blend in " , keep our head down and not make a point of our sexuality and whom we love ? without be visible , our identity be hide , and when we be so hidden , it confirm assumption that we be somehow shameful . that be why Lesbian Visibility Week be so important . we must be include for who we be , not for fit in . once no one look twice at two woman hold hand in public , once no one raise an eyebrow when your wife pick you up from work , when a child ' s teacher be not surprised when two mother arrive for parent ' evening and when people be not look at the clothe we wear or the length of our hair to decide whether or not we be lesbian , that be when lesbian be become equitable . it be not so much about be accept as be expect . I want my be a lesbian to be un - noteworthy , not because no one have notice , but because it be usual . since today ' s debate be the first in this place to celebrate Lesbian Visibility Week , it seem only right to recognise the first out lesbian Member of this place ; Maureen Colquhoun , who die in 2021 , be one of merely 23 woman elect in the February 1974 election . not only be she the first woman to come out as a lesbian while an MP , but she be the first MP to come out at all . I never meet Maureen , but she be a trailblazer and she never hide who she be , even in the face of some of the bad discrimination , include from within my party . a feminist and a fierce campaigner for woman ' s right , Maureen openly state that her sexuality ruin her political career . deselecte by her local Labour Party in Northampton North , Maureen be reinstate by the national executive of the Labour party just before the 1979 election , but ultimately she lose her seat as the country go to the poll . Maureen rightly take her place in Labour party history and parliamentary history , and I be proud that we be able to celebrate she as part of this debate today . however , after Maureen ' s election in 1974 , Parliament would have to wait a staggering 23 year until my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , whom I be delighted to see have just enter the Chamber , become the second out lesbian on the green Benches , come out in 1997 . thank to those woman trailblazer and those who have come since , it have be possible for I to believe I could be here too . live as a lesbian in 2024 be vastly different from live as a lesbian in 1974 , and I be pleased to say that since then my party and this place have make significant progress on lesbian and LGBT + right . I be glad that progress have be make in recent year . I welcome the Government ' s expansion of the scope of the ture law to include lesbian who be wrongly convict of homosexuality while serve in the military . as a Christian , I be delighted that same - sex couple be finally able to receive blessing from the Church of England . look around the world , we see progress in other country too . 2024 be the year that Greece , Estonia and Latvia be legalise same - sex marriage , and in Dominica homosexual activity have be decriminalise and the age of consent equalised . but there be challenge too . in Russia , display the Pride flag have become a criminal offence , and in Uganda , simply identify as LGBT + be illegal , show just how far there be still to go for LGBT + people , include lesbian , to feel safe to be who they be . there be still many disparity and discrimination here at home . the Government can not seem to decide whether or not to bring forward a Bill to ban conversion therapy . two week ago , it be report that the Prime Minister be kill it off , but a week later it be say that the Minister for Women and Equalities be still work on it . the position change depend on whoever be last ask . the fact remain that the Government be still kick a Bill on conversion therapy into the long grass , with no expectation that it will make it on to the statute book during this Parliament , despite its being promise six year and four Tory Prime Ministers ago . inequality have soar under the Conservatives . fourteen year of low growth and their reckless gamble , which cost household thousand , have affect everyone , but woman , include lesbian , have be brutally expose to the cost of living crisis , thank to a complete failure to close the gender pay gap and a failure to create a work environment that work for woman with caring responsibility . lesbian and GBT + people have be let down by a Conservative Government that kill off their own LGBT action plan , disband their LGBT advisory panel , cancel their international LGBT conference and have still not honour their promise to ban the insidious practice of conversion therapy . instead of stand up for LGBT + right and bring people together , the Conservatives have stoke a culture war and pit different group against each other . when Labour leave office in 2010 , life in Britain for LGBT + people , include lesbian , have be completely transform . the last Labour Government repeal the appalling section 28 , introduce civil partnership , pave the way for equal marriage , and end the ban on LGBT + people serve in our armed force . labour equalise the age of consent , give LGBT + couple the right to adopt , introduce the Equality Act 2010 and make homophobia a hate crime . I be proud to take my place here today as a Labour Member and a lesbian , with the record of the last Labour Government behind I and stand on the shoulder of the brave woman and man who make this country a safe and more hospitable place for lesbian and all LGBT + people to grow up , work , love and thrive in . the next Labour Government will continue to build on that work . I be glad that the hon . member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) point out that she be not a lesbian ; obviously , I be not either . I feel somewhat outnumber but I be proud to respond to this important debate . I extend my thank to the hon . member for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) for secure such an important debate , for highlight the importance of Lesbian Visibility Week and for pay tribute to Linda Riley , who instigate it in the first place . I too pay tribute to Linda Riley for her work , over many year . inspirational people like she have make my life , as a gay man , a lot easy , and I pay tribute to they for stand up at time when it be really not easy . I be extremely proud to be one of over 60 openly LGBT member of Parliament , and I be grateful to serve alongside such a diverse range of colleague across the House . although I be obviously not a lesbian , the journey of LGBT right be mirror in my lifetime . as I have get old , our right have improve significantly . walk that journey mean a great deal to I personally . I want that journey to continue for future generation . it be important that we have this debate on Lesbian Visibility Week so that the next generation can see that if they be a lesbian , there be absolutely nothing wrong with that and they should enjoy their life happily and freely . Lesbian Visibility Week have be widely celebrate since its inception and have provide an essential platform to address both the achievement and issue face by lesbian . dedicated colleague have fight for gender and racial equality within the Houses of Parliament themselves , from Maureen Colquhoun in the 1970 , who be the first lesbian MP and who other hon . member have mention , to the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , who have be a steadfast campaigner in this place for LGBT right for many year — I do not want to sound rude . lot of year . there be also inspirational figure outside Parliament , such as Dame Kelly Holmes , mention by the hon . member for Jarrow and for Brent Central , who be raise the profile of those who find their true self later in life . I be particularly touch by the contribution make by the hon . member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) . I know that at time it can be incredibly emotional for she to tell her story , but I be honour every time I be in the room to hear someone be so open about their experience . it be inspirational . the UK be undeniably rich for the contribution of these woman , and more LGBT role model continue to appear every day . as other have right raise , lesbian have contribute importantly to the way of life in this country : in our armed force , serve to keep our country safe ; in medicine , help we to make medical advance ; in education ; and in all walk of life . their contribution have be extraordinary . many member will have hear I say on numerous occasion that I be committed to improve the outcome for lesbian , and all LGBT people . we especially recognise that lesbian often face specific challenge . the hon . member for Jarrow talk about how she often feel lonely . as Minister for loneliness , I be really keen that we have a specific campaign and focus this year on loneliness experience by member of the LGBT community , as they often find that journey incredibly challenging , particularly if they be in rural area . other challenge may include difficulty in access to IVF , mental health challenge , domestic abuse or hate crime . I be distressed to hear the experience of hon . member who have face hate crime . have be queer - bash myself , I know how terrifying it be and the last effect such an incident have , not just when it happen but year later , with flashback . I reassure all member of the House that I and the other equality hub Ministers regularly engage with our counterpart across Government , as well as relevant civil society group , on a range of matter that relate to this important area of work . the equality hub be work with a range of business and professional membership body to identify how employer can well support woman ' s reproductive health in the workplace , for example , as part of the delivery of the workplace element in the woman ' s health strategy . we be hold roundtable and work with employer from a range of sector to develop case study and tip on good practice , to improve the support available for woman ' s reproductive health . this will help inform the development of resource to promote and support employer good practice , highlight those organisation that be lead the way on these issue . a number of important point be make about IVF . there be a number of change and future ambition within the woman ' s health strategy for England to improve the variation in access to NHS - fund fertility service . colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care have begin work to improve information provision on fertility and fertility treatment , include on the NHS website , and have launch a tool that provide great transparency on local provision of IVF . our initial priority be to remove the requirement for female same - sex couple to self - fund six round of artificial insemination before be able to access NHS - fund treatment . my colleague in DHSC be work with NHS England to take that forward , along with other commitment that be deliverable through the integrate care board . I accept that this work be take long than expect , which I realise be disappointing to those affect , but please be assure that it remain a priority for delivery . the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence be currently review its fertility guideline and will consider whether the current recommendation for access to NHS - fund treatment be still appropriate , and we expect that review to be publish next year . with regard to the statutory instrument , I be assure that colleague in the DHSC be work on it , so that it can be present to the House , but I will update the hon . member for Jarrow when I have have further discussion with DHSC Ministers . let I come on to some of the other point that be raise by Members today . Mention be make of the equal marriage debate that we have in this Chamber . ahead of that debate , I remember member receive email and letter from people almost suggest that if we extend marriage to lesbian and gay couple , the sky would fall in the next day . well , we do it , and the sky be still up there . what I notice though be that , very quickly , everybody be wait for their invitation to an equal marriage reception . turn now to the issue of hate crime , we need to ensure that we all call hate crime out , and I be glad that hon . member have do so . I be in regular discussion with my colleague in the Home Office and will continue to raise the point that hon . member have mention today . the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) talk about the voice of lesbian be silence . I simply can not understand why anybody would want to do that . lesbian have as much right as anyone to stand up for recognition and for their right . it be important that we all enter this challenging debate in a calm and measure way . a toxic debate serve no one . we can have a grow - up debate in which we disagree and agree , but we should do so with dignity and with respect . as my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Katherine Fletcher ) say , this should all be about the people whom we love , so let love be at the centre of that debate . I be glad that colleague raise international issue . unacceptable thing be happen around the world — in place such as Uganda and Ghana . I pay tribute to the work that the all - party parliamentary group on global lesbian , gay , bisexual , and transgender right be do to focus attention on this area . it be right that we join our LGBT alliance friend around the world to encourage progress in this area so that people do not have to live in fear . I will address the issue of conversion practice that the hon . member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) mention . no one in this country should be harm or harass for who they be , and attempt at so - call conversion practice be abhorrent . we be clear on our stance that they be harmful and that they simply do not work . that be why we be committed to publish the draft Bill . I know that it have take time , but it have be a very challenging issue to get right . I be committed to our do it . I gently say that I be slightly disappoint by the shadow Minister ' s conclusion to her speech , try to make out that this Government have not work hard on LGBT issue . I be proud to serve in a Government who introduce equal marriage , proud to serve in a Government who have bring about an HIV action plan to eradicate new infection by 2030 , proud to serve in a Government who allow gay man to donate blood , and proud to serve in a Government who instigate the LGBT veteran independent review , so that there can be more support for those who be treat so disgracefully . today , though , I will end on a positive note by again thank the hon . member for Jarrow for secure this debate today and bring awareness to the extremely important topic of our lesbian citizen during this important Lesbian Visibility Week . as outline , the Government be commit to make sure that the UK be a safe place where lesbian be give the opportunity to thrive and live a safe and happy life . I call Kate Osborne to wind up . I thank all those who have contribute to the debate today . I thank the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , who be no long in her place , for all that she do to ensure that same - sex marriage be achieve . my huge thank go to my hon . friend the Member for Brent Central ( Dawn Butler ) for her continuous support and allyship , and to my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) — I hope that I have pronounce her constituency correctly — for her activism and her very moving contribution today . it be disappointing to hear the SNP Front - Bench spokesperson , the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) , use problematic language such as " deluded " and " force team " in a debate design to celebrate all lesbian . to bring so much hate and toxicity as the formal Front - Bench speaker be upsetting and this Parliament deserve well . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker — Order . the hon . member for Jarrow ( Kate Osborne ) must really not use such language . I think she should withdraw that comment . I be not sure which bit you would like I to withdraw , Madam Deputy Speaker . the bit refer to hate language . okay , I withdraw it . but it be astonishing to claim that Lesbian Visibility Week be marginalise lesbian . it be because of Lesbian Visibility Week that we be here in this Chamber , bring to Parliament the issue that lesbian face . the reality be that trans - inclusive lesbian like I be very much in the majority of cis lesbian , so I take offence at any insinuation that I be marginalise or misrepresent lesbian . as a cis lesbian , I will not shy away from my trans - inclusive lesbianism and feminism . this year ' s theme be " unified , not uniform " . to embrace that , we should all be celebrate the wonderful diversity among the spectrum of LGBTQIA + woman . I thank the Minister for his constructive contribution and his support for the LGBTQIA community and I look forward to receive his response regard IVF . I also thank labour ' s Front - Bench spokesperson for set out that Labour will treat all LGBTQIA + people fairly and with dignity and respect . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the importance of Lesbian Visibility Week ; and believe LGBTQIA woman and non - binary people should be recognise for the work they do and the joy they bring . Buckland Review of Autism Employment I beg to move , that this House have consider the recommendation of the Buckland Review into Autism and Employment ; and urge the Government , business and the wide economy to implement they . there , in the word of the motion , lie the force of the review that I have the honour of chairing and the report that be publish at the end of February . this be never go to be a bout of navel gazing — an inward - look report that purely view the challenge that face autistic people in get a full or part - time job as a problem , a risk or a challenge — but instead a massive opportunity not just for all of we who be involve and who have spend year campaign for or care about autistic people and the wide neurodiverse family , but the wide economy , business small , medium and large , and self - employment . the question of productivity in our economy have be at the heart of the economic debate for more year than I care to remember . there be the issue of economic inactivity . we need to move away from the rather tired and clich é d argument that view this through the prism of benefit , rather than the range of talent that autistic people have , the myriad condition that be involve , and the potential that autistic people want to realise in a happy and healthy workplace . I put on record my thank to Stephen Lismore and the team of civil servant in the Department for Work and Pensions , some of whom be here today , for their tireless work and support in marshal the wealth of evidence that we receive — both write evidence , and evidence from a number of roundtable that we hold during our call for evidence , in person and online , which allow people from right across the four nation of the UK to take part . the list of organisation , business and people who help to make the review such a rich and stimulating process run to seven page at the back of the document . that tell the House how deep we want to go , and how meaningful we want to make the process . the review be robustly independent , and we pull no punch on the limitation of government programme , but the DWP deserve my thank for its dedication and support . I be also thankful for the support of the UK ' s lead research charity on autism , Autistica , and of James Cusack and the team there , remember that the leadership of that organisation be themselves autistic people . that be important for I on many level . the review have to be lead by autistic people , and about autistic people — in other word , " nothing about we without we . " I speak not only as a parliamentarian and a former Minister , but as a parent of a young woman who will , in due course , face choice , and hopefully be able to have a job of her own . some people will say , " well , he ' s only in it because he care about his daughter . " I be in it because I care about the hundred of thousand of people like she who deserve their chance . they might not be at the top of the tree in term of their ability . they might not be able to get job in MI6 and the security service , which by the way be really come to rely on the gift that autistic people have . it be about job right across the spectrum , down to part - time job that will mean so much to the people who can do they , and will give their life purpose , fulfilment and happiness . we must not lose the concept of happiness in all this . there be a moral case to be make for the recommendation in the review , but there be also — I make no apology for this — a hard - edge economic case . what be good for autistic people will be good for the rest of our society . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his excellent speech and his brilliant report . do he agree that hospitality be an excellent sector for people with learn difficulty , autism and so on to consider , and will he join I on a visit to the Fair Shot caf é ? I extend the invitation to everyone in the Chamber . it be a social enterprise run by a brilliant young woman , Bianca Tavella , who set up the organisation to train young people with learn difficulty to become barista and caf é worker , and have secure job for dozen of people . will he join I one day in Covent Garden to visit the Fair Shot caf é ? if there be tea and cake involve , I be there . I will happily do that . the point that my hon . friend make deal straight away with the stereotype that autistic people can not socialise . that be nonsense . there be myriad type of presentation . the condition will sometimes present itself in that way , but not always . plenty of autistic people can and do work in the hospitality sector , in an outward - face , communication - base job that work really well for they . explode some of those myth be important not just in this House but from an employer ' s point of view . that be really at the heart of the report : turn risk into opportunity for employer , to get they to think differently . the term of reference refer to autism , but I reassure people who initially want a wide reference to neuro - diversity that that be not forget at all . in fact , a lot of the recommendation have direct read - across to a wide range of neurodiverse condition , from attention deficit disorder to attention deficit hyperactivity disorder , dyslexia and dyspraxia — the whole family of neurodiverse condition . there be clearly commonality in the challenge that people face with recruitment and retention . in the time that I have , which I have to use economically , let we start with some of the fact that we uncover . only just under three in 10 autistic adult be in full - time or part - time work . it be the low rate across all disability class , at about 30 % , as oppose to 50 % for those with a disability generally . in late 2012 , I lead a Backbench Business Committee debate on autism in this Chamber . I think it be the first debate on autism that we have ever have in the main Chamber . then , few than one in seven , maybe about 14 % of autistic adult , have full - time employment . there would seem to have be an improvement , but we be not compare like with like . in the year since , we have see people in the workforce start to reveal their autism in a way that they would not have before , which be encouraging , but let we not forget that we be still talk about the 700 , 000 or so who have a diagnosis . a large number of people — probably hundred of thousand or even more — perhaps do not have a diagnosis , and do not even think of themselves as autistic or neurodiverse in any way . the figure therefore start to get a little unclear . progress have be very , very slow . there be no doubt that , as a result of Government action and intervention , there have be improvement , but we be still nowhere near where we need to be . the question be how we start to move the dial . More on that shortly . autistic people have the large pay gap of all disability group . they receive a third less on average than non - disabled people . I be afraid that that be the experience of autistic graduate , too , who experience the bad outcome of all disability group . they be the most likely to be overqualifie for their job . they be the most likely to be on zero - hour contract or part time . that lead to under motivation , less pay , unhappiness and a lack of fulfilment . some 50 % of manager express discomfort with the idea of have autistic people in their workforce , and only 35 % of autistic employee be fully open about be autistic . my right hon . and learn Friend be make an excellent case . I recently attend a Worcestershire local enterprise partnership presentation , at which an employer talk about find that his expectation of employ autistic people be completely wrong . when he discover that one of his employee be autistic , his whole organisation learn and benefit as a result . it strengthen the organisation and increase its productivity . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that many more employer need to engage on this subject ? story like that can open up a whole new way of thinking to employer . that be really the beginning of the recommendation that we make in the report . the power of narrative , and link that to create a wave of change , lie at the heart of the recommendation . let I make a final point about the current situation : about two third — 61 % — of disabled people say that their access to work claim take over three month , and 20 % say that it take over six month . while Access to work be a great principle , that be clearly too slow to help change the life of people who face an immediate job offer , or have an interview within day , rather than week or month . what be to be do ? I have talk about turn risk into opportunity , but a " universal by design " approach will make the most difference . we have hear a lot over the year about autism - friendly environment , and go out of our way to reach out , understand , and allow people to explain , but that will have only a limited impact , and only on those people who be comfortable talking , and prepare to talk , about their autism . surely it would be well to have a universal change to the way in which we recruit and retain employee , so that it embrace not just those with a diagnosis , but those who do not want to disclose their diagnosis or do not have one . suddenly , the number would then be not 700 , 000 , but probably well over a million — and that might be a conservative estimate . what about the recommendation ? there be several group within our 19 recommendation , but they can be summarise in the following way . the first group of three recommendation relate to initiative to raise awareness , reduce stigma and capitalise on productivity . we be already work with people , autism organisation and employer - face organisation to start that national campaign with good news story like the one that we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) . in certain job , autistic staff can be way more productive than neurotypical staff ; statistic show productivity improvement range from 45 % to 145 % . I be grateful to Autistica for its work promote its new neurodiversity employer index , which will allow employer to measure themselves against good practice ; it have an annual award programme . that be the sort of approach that we have see really make a difference in other walk of life . the index , with the support and approval of my hon . friend the Minister , would give employer a degree of certainty , and a uniform framework within which we could see the dial start to move . by develop such small pilot and good practice , we be again use a " show and tell " method , and large national and multinational organisation and representative body can then start to spread this work out . the second bucket of recommendation , 4 to 8 , relate to the support need for autistic people to begin or return to a career . that be all about make sure that new programme , such as the universal support programme , be design in a way that meet the vary need of autistic people , so that there be support employment programme available , as well as support internship , which the evidence show be a wonderful route through which autistic young people can develop the skill that they need . I be glad that the Department for Education be pilot an entry route into support internship for disabled people without an education , health and care plan ; that again embrace the " universal by design " approach . as Chairman of the Education Committee , I completely agree with my right hon . and learn Friend on the value of support internship . do he agree that more broadly we need to look at the issue of people without an EHCP ? we know that many autistic people do not require or have not have one . we should be look to make supported internship , or extra support for apprenticeship , as accessible as possible , so that people can progress into work and training . my hon . friend be right about that . he might have note the very interesting finding of the Nuffield Trust a few week ago , which make the point that although we have to have a system of diagnosis , the EHCP system , which I be proud to support as a Back Bencher when we bring in the Children and Families Act 2014 , be a very narrow funnel . it take a long time to get child and people in . instead of concentrate on the funnel , we need a more universal approach that can embrace many people who will not need an ehcp , but who have particular need . that be why promote cross - industry autism support group and opportunity for work shadow and volunteering have to be part of the solution . as recommendation 7 say , apprenticeship be key . finally , recommendation 8 be that the Government work with autism charity and other group to ensure that more people know about Access to work and improvement to the speed of that programme . if the adjustment passport and the access to work plus pilot be run by Department for Work and Pensions produce positive result , then I say to the Minister : let we roll they out nationally as soon as possible . the next group of recommendation , 9 to 13 , be all about change recruitment practice to support autistic applicant appropriately . we need to start with career adviser in school and college and the National Careers Service in England and its equivalent in Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland , so that there be a well understanding of autism , autistic customer can be well support , and more properly tailor advice can be give . we also need to increase the rigour of the Disability Confident work and develop high level ; we need more assessment under Disability Confident and we need to build in a link to the new neurodiversity employer index , so that Disability Confident organisation themselves will be , in the eye of autistic jobseeker , much well place to help they . online support with the employee health and disability service can also link employee to appropriate advice on good practice when it come to recruitment . the representative body have a role here . the Recruitment & Employment Confederation have a key role to play , because it can advise not only individual business , but recruitment consulting agency . there be myriad agency up and down our high street that do the heavy lifting of recruitment for small and medium - sized enterprise , so we have to get into those agency . it will be good for they , as it mean they will have more success in place autistic employee , and it will of course be good for wide business . let we face it , these sme do not have big human resource department and they will not be able to do that themselves . that be why get into the agency will be important . we must also not forget the self - employ , and ensure that we identify source of information and support for people who want to get on with thing on their own and set up their own business . in the few minute I have leave , I will mention two more group of recommendation — I will be very brief , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I want to finish cover this important report . support autistic people already in the workforce be cover in recommendation 14 to 17 ; work with the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development to make sure that the 2018 " Neurodiversity at Work " guidance be publish and accessible be at the heart of that . finally , on career progression , we need to promote the value of employee resource group and support network within large organisation and work with autism charity and the representative body to develop the training package to allow autistic staff to progress . a new task group will be set up in the week ahead — I say week , because I be work with colleague in the DWP to identify an independent chair and suitably qualified member . we need to monitor progress , hold Government to account and audit the progress we be make . I want to see , certainly by the end of this decade , that number of one in three up to the disability average at least , and — who know ? — beyond that . let we be ambitious here . I call upon my hon . friend the Minister to respond positively to the report and its recommendation with all the power that she can muster on behalf of herself and her government colleague . they be not the end ; they be not even the beginning of the end ; but they be the end of the beginning . let we make progress . I be very pleased to follow the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) ; I congratulate he on secure this debate and on the report , which make a very valuable contribution on this extremely important topic . the report do a good job of lay bare the obstacle face autistic people in the workplace — obstacle that , as he rightly say , we need to overcome . I applaud the obvious passion that he have show in present the report to we . I do not know about his own family link , and I be grateful to he for explain that to we . the Work and Pensions Committee have recently launch our own inquiry into disability employment , to follow up the report that we publish in 2021 on the disability employment gap . we have just close our call for evidence for that inquiry — I be glad that we have receive evidence from Autistica , among other — and we will soon start to take oral evidence from disability charity and other . the review will help we to frame particular question on autism employment in the context of that inquiry . as the review point out , the employment gap be much bad for autistic people than for disabled people more broadly . a disappointing feature of the report for I , though , be the rather unambitious nature of the recommendation , which be along the line of , " the Government ought to try a bit hard on this , and do a bit more of that . " there be no target set out in the report , and nothing to help we to monitor progress . I fear that when , in two or five year ' time , we ask whether the recommendation have be deliver , the answer will be a bit unclear . I do not blame the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon for that — no doubt Ministers would not have go along with a high level of ambition — but I fear that the Government will be able to accept all the recommendation without really change anything . it do seem to be a bit of a miss opportunity . the report rightly highlight the huge size of the autism employment gap . by how much should we aim to reduce it ? in his speech a moment ago , the right hon . and learn Gentleman suggest that the aim should be to increase the rate of employment among people with autism at least up to the overall disability employment rate . that would have be a really substantial target against which to measure progress to include in the report , but it be not in there . my fear be that a lack of ambition have regrettably mark the Government ' s effort on disability employment for some time . there be a moment not long ago when a high level of ambition be announce . Government Members may well remember that they campaign in the 2015 general election on a target announce by David Cameron to halve the wide disability employment gap . that gap fall sharply from 1998 to 2010 through the new deal for disabled people , but it have be stick at around 30 percentage point ever since ; it go down for a bit after 2015 , but perhaps unsurprisingly during the pandemic it go back up . unfortunately , the target of halve the gap be abandon shortly after the 2015 election be safely win , which strike I as the kind of move that give politician a bad name . in our 2021 report , the Work and Pensions Committee call unanimously , on a cross - party basis , for that target to be reinstate . the report we be debate this afternoon refer in paragraph 2 . 7 to make progress on close the employment gap , and I call on the Government , in respond to that report , to set an ambitious target for increase the employment rate among people with autism — perhaps , as the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon have just suggest , up to at least the overall disability employment rate . as the right hon . and learn Gentleman spell out with passion in his foreword , at the moment , we be " miss out on the skill and energy that autistic people could be contribute , to the detriment of we all . " he be absolutely right about that . the danger , I fear , be that without target against which to measure progress , the report may not really change thing . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for engage so closely . I absolutely agree that without a means of accountability , the work that we have do may well be lose . I think that the task group will play an important role ; it will have the freedom to start develop some more hard - and - fast approach where necessary , and to hold the Government ' s foot to the fire — whatever that Government ' s complexion . I hope that give the right hon . Gentleman some reassurance . I be grateful to the right hon . and learn Gentleman for that intervention . perhaps he could use his influence with the task group — I do not know whether he be a member of it ; I be not sure how that will work out , but I be sure he will have influence with it — to urge it to adopt the target that he set out a few minute ago , which I think could make a substantial difference . I welcome the call in the report for " process and support mechanism that enable autistic staff to be recruit and to succeed . " in that context , I want to draw attention to a concept that be not mention in the report — I be a bit disappointed that it be not — but which have be refer to elsewhere , not least in our Select Committee report . the concept of job carving mean assess a person ' s skill and then tailor an employee role to those skill . Catherine Hale , director of the Chronic Illness Inclusion project , tell our 2021 inquiry that job carving be particularly effective in support people with learn disability ; give the big overlap between autism and learning disability , I think that job carving could certainly help . the charity Mind say that job carving role for people with learn disability can benefit employer by remove task from other employee and free up time . in its " Working Better " report , the Equality and Human Rights Commission describe job carving as a " a flexible way of manage a workforce , which allow employer to utilise their staff skill in the most productive way whilst enable disabled people to make a valuable contribution to the world of work . " our 2021 report call on the Government as part of their then forthcoming national disability strategy to provide detailed guidance to employer and provider of employment support on how they could job carve role for disabled people , and call on Jobcentre plus to encourage local employer in their area to job carve . the Government ' s response to our report do not pick up the concept of job carving , but Ministers could still pick it up in respond to the report we be debate this afternoon . I wonder whether the Minister , who I know take a very close interest in this area , recognise that job carving could make a significant difference to the employment prospect of many autistic people . one thing the Government response to our 2021 inquiry do refer to be the plan at that time to increase the number of place on the intensive personalise employment support scheme . IPES provide voluntary employment support to people with disability and complex barrier to employment . as we note in our report , the guidance to IPES provider explicitly mention job carving as an intervention that can help disabled people to find and stay in work . IPES be refer to in paragraph 2 . 11 of the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s report , which rightly point out that referral to IPES have now end , as our Select Committee hear in a one - off evidence session last week on the Government ' s back to work plan . there will be no more IPES referral . we be tell by provider at our evidence session last week that the work and health programme , also refer to in paragraph 2 . 11 of the report , be also come to an end . those be two programme that the report rightly identify as provide valuable help for people with autism to move into employment which be be shut down . the Minister may want to comment on this in due course , but , as far as I can tell , it do not appear that any of the new employment support programme , such as WorkWell and universal support , will provide support comparable to that which be be close down , and which the report have rightly identify as very helpful . the fear be that , despite the laudable aim set out in the report , which I know the Minister will endorse , we be in reality go backwards . the provision at the moment , which have be there for some time , be be remove . it would be helpful if the Minister could tell we why IPES and the work and health programme be be close down , and where the new initiative be to close what look like an emerge gap in provision for people with autism . employer be struggle at the moment to fill vacancy . the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon be absolutely right that there be a big opportunity here to boost disability employment if we can just find a way to enable employer to tap into it . the hon . member for Worcester ( Mr Walker ) be absolutely right that employer be willing to do so , if only they know how — it be a bit of a close book to they . I do not think there be a lack of willingness on the part of employer , but there be a lack of information . it be very interesting to read in the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s review about Auticon , which I have not hear of before . it be an it consultancy in which 80 % of the workforce be autistic , highly talented it consultant . the founder — I think they be in Scandinavia — recognise that many autistic adult have extraordinary ability , such as pattern recognition , sustained concentration and attention to detail , which be valuable quality in many employment context . however , autistic people need support to secure and maintain those job , and Auticon specifically provide that support , understand the need of its employee , and have build a successful business on that basis . I be glad that the report also highlight in that respect the good work of GCHQ , which be a big employer in my neck of the wood . another example along those line be an IT security company in Worcester call Titania . its chief executive be an autistic woman , and it have tailor its recruitment process specifically to address some of the challenge that my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) have identify in his report , so that it can recruit more autistic people , who it find be such valuable and productive employee . that sound like a wonderful model . the more of that kind of initiative around the country , the well . the report make the point that a line manager in a mainstream business may well not know that somebody they be manage be autistic . whether the employer can agree reasonable adjustment for the employee , as be their right under the Equality Act , will depend on they self - disclose their diagnosis to their line manager . as the review note , whatever the level of understanding among company director or senior staff , if the line manager be unable or unwilling to provide support , the employee will struggle to stay in their job . the review be right to point out that at the moment there be no easily accessible guidance for employer and line manager on how to support autistic staff . evidence to our inquiry so far suggest that , as the hon . member for Worcester rightly say , employer want to do the right thing but often simply do not know how . when they be point in the right direction and try it , it turn out to be a positive experience . what can the Government do to give employer confidence in this area ? the review call on the Department to " continue to develop Disability Confident , increase the rigour of developmental work need to achieve the high Disability Confident level " . I think that be a very kind way of express the point . the noble Lord Shinkwin , who sit on the Government Benches in the other place and chair the disability commission for the Centre for Social Justice , speak for many of our witness when he say that Disability Confident " be not make a measurable impact " at the moment . employer can , as thing stand , achieve the high level of Disability Confident accreditation without employ a single disabled person . in response to our predecessor Select Committee six year ago , the Department say that it be develop proposal for an evaluation of Disability Confident . that commitment , first express six year ago , be announce again in response to our report almost three year ago in November 2021 . however , I have still see no sign of anything happen . perhaps the Minister can update we . be that evaluation of Disability Confident now complete , and when can we expect Disability Confident finally to be reform ? the review be absolutely right to highlight the importance of access to work and to call for improvement there . it make the point — I think the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon refer to this in his speech — that almost two third of disabled people state that it take over three month for their application to be process , and 20 % say that it take over six month . he be absolutely right that that be far too slow . I agree that , as the review suggest , if the adjustment passport produce positive result , it should be roll out nationally as soon as possible . however , in response to our Committee ' s report three year ago in November 2021 , we be promise that the adjustment passport would be pilot from November 2021 and , if successful , would be expand to support all access to work customer . as far as I can tell , we seem to be no far forward in 2024 than we be in November 2021 . when be these long - promise improvement actually go to materialise ? one other policy lever the Government could pull be mandatory disability workforce reporting , which be recommend unanimously , on a cross - party basis , in our 2021 report . there be a voluntary framework through which employer can choose to report , but in late 2021 the Government launch a consultation on whether to require large employer to report the number of disabled people they be employ . that work be then pause , but I understand that it have now be resume , and that the Government plan to publish their finding and next step in the course of this year . I wonder whether the Minister can update we on when we can expect to see that work . do she agree that require employer to report on the number of disabled people they employ and , within that , perhaps the number of autistic people , could be effective in encourage the employment of people with autism and other health impairment ? I very much welcome the report , which have highlight important issue , and the opportunity to debate it today . I also welcome the positive approach that the right hon . and learn Gentleman take , when introduce the report early , in see the scale of opportunity if we get this right . however , laudable aspiration in this area be just not enough if delivery be delay for year . we need an ambitious target to increase the rate of employment among people with autism and other disabled people . we need work - up plan and timescale to deliver they . I very much hope that — perhaps as a result of the work of the task group that he mention — we will finally see some of that when the Government respond formally to this very welcome report . I call the SNP spokesperson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . run through my mind be the word , " follow that ! " I thank the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) for produce this outstanding report . his family ' s live experience have absolutely make for a much well report , and I thank he for all the work that he have do on it . to follow the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) be always a privilege and a pleasure — he have take away some of my good line , but I will carry on regardless . it be a real pleasure to speak in the debate , which I sign up for immediately , have speak many time in this place on the subject of autism . I think it would be remiss of I not to mention Dame Cheryl Gillan at the start of my remark . one of the first debate that I speak in be on the closure of the autism one Stop Shop in Motherwell back in 2015 , and Dame Cheryl be so kind and helpful to I when I speak to that important topic . I should point out that I be very close to someone with three autistic son . my own young son have never be diagnose , but I do not think there be much doubt that he be somewhere on the spectrum , and I think he would admit that himself . I also thank ambitious about Autism and the National Autistic Society for their briefing , which be always helpful . the current situation regard employment for those with autism be simply not good enough across the UK . the UK Government have consistently bang on about reduce economic inactivity and encourage people into work , but their rhetoric be still not match with proper support , especially for the neurodiverse , about whom we be talk today . as we have hear , issue with access to work and the provision of workplace adjustment mean that many autistic people be slip through the gap . this be certainly the case for those with autism : as we have also hear , only three in 10 working - age autistic people in the UK be in employment . that statistic be five in 10 for all disabled people , and eight in 10 for non - disabled people . ambitious about Autism ' s employment survey find that 71 % of those unemployed would like to be in work , but less than a third be confident that they would find work within the next year . that signify a huge gap in the support currently provide . I have see at first hand the transformative power of employment when autistic and disabled people be properly support into work . I have the privilege of visit University Hospital Wishaw to meet some of the participant in the support internship scheme run by DFN Project SEARCH , and meet some of the student on that scheme . some of they have now find employment . some of they have now marry . the transformation in their life and those of their family can not be over - estimate — I literally have to be drag off the scene , because that be one of the most uplifting visit I have undertake as an MP . employment bring fulfilment , independence and purpose , and as I have say , it can positively transform the life of the employee if they be well support . however , even when employ , autistic people face challenge and discrimination . the Buckland report find that autistic worker face the large pay gap of all disability group , earn on average a third less than their non - neurodiverse counterpart . far , the report note that autistic graduate be twice as likely as non - disabled graduate to be unemployed after 15 month . only 36 % find work in that period , and autistic graduate be more likely to be overqualifie for the job they have . they be the most likely people to be on zero - hour contract and the least likely to be in a permanent role . all of those thing require look at properly , because the statistic be appal . morally , we should be ensure that autistic worker be support when try to find employment , but it be also incumbent upon government , employer and other stakeholder to ensure that those with autism be adequately support when they be in work . the SNP welcome the publication of the Buckland review of autism and employment , and urge the Government to implement its recommendation to ensure that autistic people have the opportunity they deserve . I far welcome the report ' s engagement with autistic organisation , as live experience be vital when shape policy . that be something the UK Government do not always have a good track record on . a lack of access to good - quality career advice , inflexible hiring practice and non - inclusive workplace culture be just some of the barrier face autistic people . once employment have be achieve , autistic people can struggle when employer do not or can not put in place proper adjustment to support they . autistic people process information differently and experience a build environment in a totally different manner , which can impinge on their ability to carry out their work — too much bright light , noise , or social interaction can be overwhelming . additionally , as have be say , autistic people might need more time to process interview question . it be imperative that employer be aware of such difference and take step to accommodate autistic worker — or any disabled worker , for that matter . a person close to I have an autistic son who wear a badge at work to indicate his mood to his co - worker . it be a simple thing : if he be feel overwhelmed and do not want people to talk to he or to be interrupt , he turn the badge to indicate that . from my own experience in further education , I know that my student benefit immensely when we have autistic student in class . at first they think it be strange — they be a bit wary — but over the year they develop an understanding of autism and a real respect for the autistic student who sit next to they . the same happen in workplace : if we can get people into the right place and the right job , everyone benefit . not accommodate autistic worker waste so much talent and skill . it make no sense for business either — we have already hear about the special skill that autistic people can bring to the workplace . when business properly accommodate neurodiverse employee , the result can be amazing . I have visit the Barclays bank campus in Glasgow , design by a woman architect who have autistic son . the difference in that building be awesome : it be build with neurodiverse people in mind , with big open - plan office with chill pod and a real understanding of what need to happen . as a result , Barclays have great employee , and people be get good work and proper job . it be imperative that the UK Government act urgently to improve support for all disabled people , include those with autism , and tackle barrier to employment . we be really worried about the Prime Minister ' s recent announcement on fit note reform : push people into work without consider what they be suffer and what they need be appalling . as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , I get very passionate about this topic , so I will try to rush through . it be important that access to Work be reform , as the Buckland report call for , and reform to sick pay also need to be introduce for when people need time off . in Scotland , the SNP Government try our good . we be try to be a fair work nation and be invest money in autism , as well as in simple thing such as work within education to get initial teacher education course that will teach trainee teacher about autism , because as we know , education be the gateway to employment . I will stop there , Madam Deputy Speaker . again , I congratulate the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon , and I want the Minister to take on board all the report ' s recommendation and make life much easy for those with autism in the workplace . I call the shadow Minister . I be the next in line to congratulate the right hon . and learn Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) on securing and open this debate , but also — and particularly — on the content of his report . his persistence in push to raise awareness of the barrier autistic people face in employment be greatly to his credit , and benefit this House and our understanding of these issue . I also thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant the debate , and colleague for make such valuable and insightful contribution . in pass , I also put on record my admiration for Autism together , formerly the Wirral Society for Autistic Children — a great local charity that have be around for 50 year and do very good work in this area , which have not always be fashionable for people to concentrate on . as we have hear this afternoon , the Buckland review have be broadly welcome by charity and other organisation . it have shine a light on the barrier that neurodivergent people continue to face when try to get into , stay in , and get on in the workplace . it have also demonstrate that there be an increase understanding of the benefit of ensure that people with neurodivergence can get into work : they often have a unique view and unique talent . not only do GCHQ know about those talent , but many other sector could benefit if they only realise it . the review be fill with statistic that make for grim reading , to say the least . only 30 % of autistic adult be currently in work — what a waste ! where they be in work , autistic people face the large pay gap of all disability group — that be simply not a fair reflection of the benefit they bring to employment . autistic graduate be the most likely to be overqualifie for their position and least likely to be in a permanent role . our society and our economy suffer as a result of the waste that the Buckland review have outline to the House . we ought to be anxious to do something about that . the review highlight that a startling 50 % of manager feel uncomfortable with the idea of hire disabled people . let we imagine someone want to work but be prevent from do so because the hiring manager feel uncomfortable around they , do not understand the way in which they relate to the world or have preconceive idea about their ability . that be pure discrimination . it be not always deliberate , but it must feel like it , whether it be suffer because of benign ignorance or bigotry . we must think about how to get rid of the ignorance that the report talk about , and we must give neurodivergent people the confidence that the law will support they if they be subject to bigotry . the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s report talk very much about the soft power end of tackle that , but we also have to think as a society about the hard end . we have discrimination law in place for people with disability . perhaps we need to think about how to give that more bite . I admit that the right hon . and learn Gentleman have not do that in his review , and it probably be not in the term of reference , but it be important to remember that context when consider this issue . we simply can not let generation after generation of very talented people be waste in this way . the review ' s key recommendation be only a first step on the road to eliminate some of the barrier . the right hon . and learn Gentleman know that , although he be appropriately passionate about what he discover in his review . undoubtedly , many of the recommendation have the potential to have a positive impact on autistic people ' s experience and open up those important vista of opportunity for they in our society . the review rightly have a strong focus on collaborate with autistic people , employer , employer organisation and specialist support group . that be important because there be unique insight to be have . clearly , the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s report have do that very well . for example , shadow Minister for Disabled People , my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) , go to an event attend by BT a few month ago to highlight how to improve its hiring practice and workplace support for neurodivergent people . she tell I that BT speak highly not only of the positive benefit feel by autistic employee , but of how the company have be able to capitalise on the unique skill that they bring . there be many example of that , some of which we have hear today . the review have be largely welcome , but we must ask how quickly it can be implement and whether we can give it a bit more bite . the right hon . and learn Gentleman be very gentle in his way , and no doubt he have be send down particular railroad by the Government in produce his report . what step will the Minister take to ensure that other neurodivergent and disabled people benefit from measure similar to those outline in the review ? what can she say to back up the remark make by the Chair of the Select Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , about increase the predictability and speed of access to work , make it easy for people to know that they will be support in a practical way if they make the step into work ? over the last few year , the Government have bring a hodgepodge patchwork of piecemeal measure claim to strengthen and improve the right of disabled and neurodivergent people . there have be lot of activity , but very little effective output in term of a change in the number of people with disability in work . we have the national disability strategy , which be largely view as tinker around the edge . we have the health and disability White Paper , which raise more question than it answer . we have the disability action plan — again , a smattering of well - receive , small policy idea . as my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham point out , we have the dropping of the target for increase employment of disabled people more generally . we have have consultation after consultation , pilot and various heart and mind initiative with employer , but little have change , as we have see in the Buckland review . we need proper action , not more gentle observation . we need to deal with the societal barrier that make the life of people with neurodiversity challenging and their employment prospect far too narrow . on inclusion measure , there be a contradiction that strike I when listen to the right hon . and learn Gentleman , between the bleak picture that the review paint of the continue barrier that autistic people face while try to get into work , and some of the other attitude that can be discern in the Government about how to deal with that . the Minister for Women and Equalities , the right hon . member for Saffron Walden ( Kemi Badenoch ) , be on the record say that equality , diversity and inclusion measure have already go too far , dismiss they as " snake oil " and performative , and deride disability equality and inclusion measure in the economy as woke and something to be eliminate and drive out . that send confusing and mixed message about the Government ' s approach . I hope that the Minister ' s response will include a far more positive approach , tell we that the Government intend to do something about the review . I hope that they will take up some of the issue that my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham raise in his contribution about target rather than nice word and warmth , which we all agree with . we want target and a commitment to practical action , not just a repeat of the issue about Disability confident employer . as my right hon . Friend say in his remark , analysis show that disabled people do not report well experience work for Disability Confident employer compare with employer that be not part of the scheme . an employer can say that they be Disability Confident without employ a single disabled person . be it not time for target , and transparency about the number of people with disability who be in work ? be it not time for reporting , more rigour and , if need be , an application of the law ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) for introduce this important debate on autism employment . it be a pleasure to follow the Lesbian Visibility Week debate . I have the pleasure of hear Dame Kelly Holmes talk about how it have change her life at an Inspiring Leadership Awards this week . let I take the opportunity to put on record our covenant that cover disadvantaged girl and vulnerable young woman . I thank the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) for mention Dame Cheryl Gillan . I pay tribute to her passion and commitment in championing autism and its opportunity , and understanding of the individual , which be so important . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon also do that so well . I firmly believe that autism should not be a barrier to start , stay or succeed in employment . I know that all member present and those watch share that vision . although not every autistic person can work , give the right long - term support — not just to get into work , but to progress in work — the vast majority could . one in 70 people be autistic , which be about a million people across the UK . give more autistic people the chance to get into work be incredibly good for they , as we hear from my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon today . there be a huge opportunity to tackle economic inactivity . the talent range and myriad potential must be realise , and I will do my utmost today to give an update on many of the question raise and what come next . we know it be good for employer , in build that diverse workforce , to work with more diverse customer . in my role , in answer to the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , it be about proper inclusion and action , and turn warm word — not just from I , but from employer and sector — into action . I can promise she that there have be no railroading on what my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon should include in his review . I will come on to the next step , and there will also be a further update on the disability action plan in July . hopefully we be start off well in answer question . in 2017 the Government set a goal to see a million more disabled people in employment by 2027 . I be proud to say that in the first quarter of 2022 the number of disabled people in employment have increase by 1 . 3 million , mean that the goal have be meet within five year . in the first quarter of 2023 disability employment have rise by 1 . 6 million in total since the goal be announce . I be aware that progress have be good but not even . I feel this week I be under scrutiny again from the Chair of the Select Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) . I be focus on this next goal and how we review and shape what be next . member should watch this space . it be sad but true , as we have hear today , that currently only three in 10 working - age autistic people be in employment , even though we know that the majority of autistic people would like to be in work . indeed , their family would love to see they progress . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon say the dial need to be move on autism and neuro - diversity more widely , and we do need to move that dial . the design we be work on for universal support and engagement with the Department for Education , whether that be supportive internship or broad apprenticeship , have to work for young people and the people in our community . seven in 10 working - age autistic people be unable to access independence and the sense of fulfilment that employment can bring be far too many . as the Minister hear , the right hon . and learn Gentleman suggest a few minute ago that there should be a target for raise the level of employment among autistic people at least up to the wide disability employment rate . will she consider adopt that target ? I be absolutely look at the right way forward , because for I , if someone acquire a disability , we need to be look at how they be retain in work and whether they have a particular impairment or need . I be look at that in the round . as part of the Disability Confident challenge , the new guidance for leadership , work with the cipd , be important . we need to be talent confident . many employer want to employ more inclusively . they just struggle with how to do it and so regress to the same old recruitment . there be also an autism friendly employer award , which we should be look at . I be proud to say that I have that — I be one of the few parliamentarian who do . it be worth raise that too . I thank the hon . Lady for raise that important point for all of we . my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) mention the Fair Shot caf é in Covent Garden . I think we will all be pop down for coffee and banana cake . my predecessor enjoy his visit there , and I be look forward to see more work like that , because these thing be incredibly important . the Chair of the Select Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham , talk about job carving , and I call it job design . it be about work with employer , look at the role they have , interview in the way that suit people and give long - term support . I totally agree with all the charity that talk about jobcentre always have that individualised approach . I promise the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw and all those watch that it be about the right role for the right person in front of we at DWP , so that we can actively change people ' s life . that be what we be in the business of do ; it be not just warm word . the point on self - employment that my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon mention link to the Lilac review and active , positive choice for disabled people . we recognise talent , ability and entrepreneurship . there be a positive choice there , and access to cash be important . I will turn to my right hon . and learn Friend ' s point on autistic people and the recruitment process . I thank Helen Tomlinson , the Government ' s menopause champion , who be also the head of talent at the Adecco Group . thank to her support , my official be work with Adecco and the Recruitment and Employment Confederation to develop new method for recruitment that work effectively for both autistic and neurotypical applicant , ensure that employer be more able to secure the talent they need to thrive . the Government be determined to provide the right support . I also note and agree with the point about career progression for autistic people . access to Work continue to provide grant for extra cost , and those adjustment passport be key . we be focus on new employment . I recognise that there have be delay , and that be partly because more people know and understand the value of access to Work . we be continue to develop a universal support scheme . I recognise the point that the right hon . member for East Ham have make , and I hope I have reassure he about the design on that . I can not cover all the wide - range point he make in this debate , but I be happy to write to he on those . on the challenge of be ambitious and on what come next , and in term of what we be look to achieve , I can announce that my official will shortly be go out to the autism community to seek expression of interest in join the group , start with the role of chair . it will be a transparent , inclusive process , and the selection panel will be entirely independent of Government . I fully expect that that be where outcome and what come next will be realise when it come to the review ' s ambition . to conclude , this report be a big and extremely welcome step forward . it have not only produce a plan to overcome barrier for autistic people , but show a path that can be follow for other group face barrier to employment and those with other type of neurodiversity and learning . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon once again . the review make the point about the reform of Disability Confident . can the Minister give an update on that ? have the evaluation be complete ? when will the change be bring forward ? there have be some change , and I have mention some of the update . there be more to come , which I think the right hon . Gentleman will be interested in and will welcome , if he can just bear with I . if I be not constantly in the Chamber be examine , I can get on with the bit that I want to bring forward to the House , if that make sense to those watch . we be see some great progress and some good practice . thing always work well when there be real change in get autistic people into employment . I agree with the hon . member for Wallasey . I agree with the whole reason for the report , and I thank James and the charity and all those who bring the report together . we need to deliver for autistic people . this be just the start , and may we long continue to deliver on that ambition . I call Sir Robert Buckland to wind up . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will exercise my prerogative , because there be a proper debate , with some challenge to the report and the approach take . may I first say that I make no apology for the fact that the report do not , as be so often the case , make yet another call for a change in the law or ask for another slug of Government money ? I just do not think that either will really cut it . I take the point make by the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) to talk about the legal framework . we have equality legislation , and we have a protect characteristic — namely disability — under which autism clearly come , fairly and squarely . I be absolutely with she in make sure that employer and employee be much well equip to understand the full ambit of that and what discrimination actually mean . she be right that , more often than not , discrimination be not the product of deliberate , malicious or wilful behaviour , but the product of ignorance . I think that word " ignorance " underpin so much of the obstacle that autistic people and neurodiverse people face in the workforce . now , I be with the hon . Lady on wage a war on ignorance , but may I say to Opposition Members that they should not confuse perhaps a diplomatic or gentle approach with a lack of inner determination and steel to get change ? that have always be how I have operate . I do believe in respect and courtesy , but underpin that be a determination to hold the Minister to account and to hold government of a future complexion to account . that be why the task group have an important role . I be grateful to the civil servant who work with the Minister for share the draft term of reference with I . the debate can help inform that process far . the term of reference , which emphasise the independence of the chair and the group , be a good start . we should make it absolutely clear in those term of reference that the group be free to look at target , timescale and the sort of approach that I have presage in my speech and which the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , rightly press we on . let we take that away from the debate as something on which we must build . I be particularly grateful to the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) for mention DFN Project SEARCH . DFN stand for David Forbes - Nixon , who be an incredible man whose own son be autistic . with the charity that he set up , he have build this incredible network . she be right to mention that . I commend my hon . friend the Minister for her remark . she know that I will be hold the Government ' s foot to the fire on this matter . let we use the review as the basis of progress . let we get industry and business behind we , and let we move the dial on autism employment . let we get on with it . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the recommendation of the Buckland Review into Autism and Employment ; and urge the Government , business and the wide economy to implement they . single - use Plastics Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) cheap and disposable single - use plastic have become a symbol of our throwaway culture — they be cheap , convenient and now pervade every part of our life — but that also mean that they have contaminate every part of our environment , where they take century to break down . they often break down into tiny microplastic that be have a catastrophic impact on biodiversity and human health . plastic can be find in ever - increase quantity everywhere , from the top of Mount Everest to the deep ocean trench . the UK produce the second high amount of plastic waste per capita , with supermarket produce 900 , 000 tonne of plastic every year at the last count . with production increase , that figure be set to rise . the UK public have long be ahead of politician on this issue and have prove time and again their deep concern for the plastic crisis and their determination to find solution . that be highlight most recently in a massive citizen science project , the Big Plastic Count , run by Greenpeace and Everyday Plastic . More than 220 , 000 individual and schoolchildren agree to count their plastic for a week , to record the scale of the problem and find out where their waste be be dispose of . fifty mp also sign up to take part , and I be proud to be one of they . the project uncover that the UK throw away 1 . 7 billion piece of plastic every year , but only 17 % of that be recycle . the vast majority — 58 % of it — be burn in UK incinerator , which be often locate in deprive neighbourhood , produce toxic air pollution and often more greenhouse gas per tonne burn than coal . that be a shocking statistic , and a large part of why the plastic industry be contribute such a huge amount to climate change . the industry now produce more greenhouse gas than the entire aviation industry . time and again , survey have confirm the strength of public feeling when it come to plastic , and in particular their frustration with single - use plastic . a study by the University of Birmingham early this year find the UK public to be more concerned about the threat to society pose by plastic pollution than the coronavirus pandemic or future pandemic , terrorism , economic collapse , natural disaster or artificial intelligence . plastic - relate issue top the list of environmental problem that the UK public want to tackle — plastic in the ocean be first , and the amount produce be second . a different poll find that 74 % of UK resident agree that , to stop plastic pollution , we need to cut plastic production . when we look globally , it be clear that the problem have grow out of control : global plastic production double between 2000 and 2019 , and it be anticipate nearly to triple by 2050 . a study that come out this week project that the plastic industry will consume 21 % to 26 % more of the Earth ' s remain carbon budget to keep warm below 1 . 5 ° C — and that be a conservative estimate . all that mean , of course , be that we must design a solution that be appropriate for the enormity of the problem at hand . that mean a solution that be global , which require international co - operation ; one that force company and government to change their behaviour , and one that address plastic pollution across its full life cycle from extraction to disposal . as we speak , country around the world be attend the fourth round of the United Nations negotiation to try to agree a plastic treaty , but that process currently hang in the balance . oil produce country and fossil fuel and chemical company be out in force at the negotiation , use all their power , resource and wealth to try to obstruct the process and prevent any deal that would put a limit on the amount of plastic that get produce . for those company , the plastic industry represent a lifeline as the world look to replace oil and gas as an energy source . the global plastic treaty need to secure a global , legally bind target to cut plastic production radically . the Liberal Democrats be serious about tackle the problem . we want to end plastic export by 2030 . in a previous session , my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) introduce a Bill that would have set a 2025 target to end non - essential single - use plastic as well as a statutory long - term target to cut plastic waste and pollution significantly by 2042 by phase out all but the most essential use of plastic . I be deeply concerned that the Government target on plastic pollution , as set out in the Environment Act 2021 , will not be enforce until 2037 , leave the Government 13 year to delay take action . we be push for punitive measure for the government if they do not achieve the target . while the Government say some of the right thing on the plastic treaty , we have yet to see confirmation that they will push for a genuinely ambitious outcome , particularly on plastic production . to be clear , the Government have announce their intention to " restrain and reduce " plastic production , but they must go much far and call for a radical target for reduction . they also must provide explicit confirmation that such a target should be legally binding , rather than leave each country to decide voluntarily how much it will do and when , and they must confirm that such a target should address every single form of plastic production without loophole , not just those contain the most harmful and toxic element . the absolute priority in the negotiation be that we must stop the problem at source . that will make our air clean , and our park , green space and beach free from plastic . it will protect wildlife and biodiversity , and help we stay within 1 . 5 ° C of global warming . although it be crucial to recognise the importance of tackle the issue on a global scale , I would also like to recognise some of the important action we can take at home . in my constituency we be incredibly lucky to have the Carymoor Environmental Trust , which work to educate child on the impact of waste on the environment . it run a session call " fantastic plastic " which look at the environmental impact of plastic and way to avoid single - use plastic . since 2018 the project have work with over 58 , 000 child in Somerset . since 1996 , Carymoor have regenerate 80 acre of a cap landfill site into a beautiful nature reserve and welcome around 100 school a year to its visitor centre , where it give advice on use reusable container for drink instead of single - use plastic alternative . that wonderful example of local educational work need to be supplement by Government policy , and I have be please by some of the Government ' s intention . their reform extend producer responsibility system will put the full cost of collect , sort , recycle and disposing of household packaging waste on producer rather than local authority . it be a step in the right direction , despite be hamper by delay mean it will not begin until at least March 2025 . local authority will also be require to collect flexible plastic and film from household waste by March 2027 . somerset have be prepare for the introduction of these new waste regulation and recently Somerset Council have take part in a flexible plastic trial . as a proud serve Somerset councillor , I be very pleased by its success . around 3 , 600 property around Frome in my constituency take part and each household be provide with blue transparent bag in which to present their flexible plastic waste . the response have be positive , with over 65 % of resident regularly participate in the trial . just under 500 kg of material be capture each week . if we consider the light weight of this type of plastic , we get an idea of the sheer volume of it that be use each week . the take - up of the trial demonstrate that there be an appetite among resident to increase their recycling output , and polling from Reloop have find that 83 % of the british public express very high level of support for recycling . however , one issue be the UK ' s current lack of suitable recycling infrastructure for flexible plastic . they be expensive to recycle and more work be require on the end - market side to create the infrastructure to make this type of recycling work . assurance from Government on the cost and support available for local authority and for industry will help to ensure move in this direction be a success . return to the recent Big Plastic Count , one participate constituent in Frome tell I that they would use 2 , 000 individual piece of single - use plastic a year and that it be mostly food packaging . I would like legislation to oblige supermarket to sell more loose food , which would dramatically reduce unnecessary plastic waste . that would have the twin benefit of cut down on food waste , as it would encourage consumer to buy what they need , rather than big , pre - package bag of fruit and veg . farmer could also reduce their costly pre - farmgate food waste , which be create when supermarket mandate certain size for fruit and vegetable to fit into their plastic packaging . the Liberal Democrats have be call for a ban on non - recyclable single - use plastic . we want to replace they with affordable alternative , aim for complete elimination within three year . in my constituency , famer have start to look at way in which they can eliminate their usage of single - use plastic . for example , Tytherington Milk Station , near Frome , operate four milk vend machine — one at the farm in Tytherington , one in Frome , one just outside my constituency in Warminster , and another in Bath — supply their customer directly , and reduce the farm ' s carbon footprint by reduce plastic waste through the use of refillable glass bottle . my constituency be also home to Bruton Dairy , which start to use steel milk churn in a bid to cut down the amount of plastic use . that have prove so successful that over a 12 - month period , the dairy send out more than 200 , 000 litre of milk in its churn . innovation and initiative of that kind should be celebrate and support . let I now turn to an announcement that the Government make early today . have wait since 2018 , when they first announce their intention to launch a deposit return scheme , we have now hear their plan . polling for Reloop find that 69 % of the public support the introduction of a deposit return scheme , and that 89 % believe that the Government have at least a fair amount of responsibility for recycling . despite the lengthy delay , I welcome the fact that the Government have listen to the public , along with liberal Democrat support for an all - in deposit scheme , and I hope the Minister will say a little about the scheme in his response . however , yet again the Government be look to move too slowly : the scheme be not expect to come into operation until 2027 , although international good practice have show that 18 month should be sufficient to establish such a system . it could potentially save about £ 11 billion , give the social cost of litter and give high recycling rate , as well as reduce greenhouse gas emission by 0 . 46 million tonne a year by 2032 . in the light of those benefit , it be vital for the Government to move fast in deliver this long - await scheme . I be also disappointed that they have fail to honour their 2019 manifesto commitment to include glass bottle in such a scheme , but I guess that that promise be make five DEFRA Secretaries of State ago . the scale of the plastic problem that we face be huge , but I believe we have the tool at our disposal to tackle it . the Government have make the right noise , but now be the time to act , both on the international stage and at home . we know of the devastating impact that climate change and plastic pollution have on our environment , so we must address it as a matter of urgency . the Government have be slow to act in the past , and I hope they will now recognise the urgency that be need . the UK must take its place as one of the leader in the global movement to reduce our reliance on single - use plastic , and I hope that through the successful implementation of the measure I have discuss today , we will take important step forward . I thank the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) for raise this important issue . the Government be deal with it , and take it extremely seriously . we all know of the detrimental impact that single - use plastic can have on society . it make up much of our plastic waste , and pollute our landscape and harm our wildlife when it leak into the environment . this plastic eventually break down into microplastic , end up in our soil , our sea and , unfortunately , our food chain . our priority be to achieve zero avoidable plastic waste by 2042 and keep plastic in circulation for long , move away from a " take , make and throw away " model and towards a circular economy . single - use plastic do not fit in with the new model and can be particularly problematic , which be why drive a circular economy be incredibly important . they be typically litter or discard into general waste , rather than be recycle , due to the difficulty in segregate , clean and process they . we want to move away from a culture of single - use plastic and towards one where , if they can not be design out , we reuse and repair product as much as possible , before recycle they at the end of their life . I be sure that all of we , as constituency MPs , have be to many a primary school and hear the challenge bring forward by student , who want we to deal with single - use plastic . they come up with ingenious idea . this Government be prepared to embrace those idea and drive the challenge forward . we must recognise , however , that single - use plastic have an important role to play in certain application . when use in the right way and dispose of correctly , single - use plastic can help we to deliver the good environmental outcome . for example , there be a direct need for single - use plastic for medical or clinical purpose in certain circumstance . we be bring out policy to drive the circular economy . it be important to take a systematic , evidence - base approach to policy , as we have do thus far , to drive down the use of single - use plastic . we have already make significant progress in address the use of single - use plastic . the late step , in October 2023 , be the Government ' s ban on some of these plastic , include cutlery , balloon stick , expand polystyrene cup and takeaway food and drink container — and restriction on single - use plastic plate , bowl and tray . that build on measure that we have already put in place . we have one of the world ' s tough ban on microbead in rinse - off personal care product , which prevent billion of tiny plastic bead from enter the ocean every single year . we also bring in measure to restrict the supply of plastic straw , plastic drink container and plastic - stem cotton bud from October 2020 , and these restriction have already have an impact . straw , stirrer and cotton bud use to be in the top 10 litter item on beach , but this be no long the case . have be involve in many a beach clean - up in my lifetime , I be pleased to see that the use of plastic drink container , plastic stirrer and plastic - stem cotton bud have significantly reduce . I be sure that all of we who have take part in beach clean - up be happy that that be the case . the use of single - use carrier bag in the main supermarket reduce by over 98 % through the introduction of the 5p charge . that represent a decrease of over 7 billion carrier bag . in May 2021 , we increase the charge to 10p and extend it to all retailer , build on the success of the policy and create a level playing field for all business . retailer have donate over £ 206 million to good cause from the proceed of the charge since its introduction , and we will continue to review the late evidence on problematic product in order to take a systematic approach to reduce the number of unnecessary single - use plastic product in circulation . we have also fund ground - break research to address this issue through the £ 60 million smart sustainable plastic packaging challenge . support by a £ 150 million investment from industry , it seek to make plastic packaging that be fit for a sustainable future . through the challenge , we have fund numerous UK university to innovate and drive clean growth across the UK ' s plastic packaging and recycling system . that have support research on reuse system that tackle single - use approach head - on . the Government also support the UK plastic pact , a collaborative initiative to create a circular system that keep plastic in the economy and out of the natural environment . business member of the UK plastic pact be responsible for 80 % of plastic packaging sell through UK supermarket , and approximately 50 % of the total plastic packaging place on the UK market . the impact of single - use plastic can of course be feel across the globe , which be why our work on the global stage be incredibly important . we be work with other , such as the global ghost gear initiative , the Commonwealth Clean Ocean Alliance and the tide turner plastic challenge badge scheme , which help hundred of thousand of young people to tackle plastic packaging in their community . through our £ 500 million Blue Planet fund , we be invest in initiative such as the Global Plastic Action Partnership , to support other in make the transition to a more circular economy . we know we must go far , which be why we be support new global agreement to co - ordinate action on plastic . the UK delegation to the UN environment programme be in Ottawa , Canada , at the fourth negotiation round to develop the first bind UN treaty to end plastic pollution . the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) , in her role as Environment Minister , be there in person on Sunday , champion our plastic work abroad , drive progress in these important negotiation , and share this Government ' s experience of bring forward legislation quickly , so that other can benefit from a collaborative approach . as a found member of the High Ambition Coalition to end plastic pollution , the UK be continuously push for an ambitious outcome and an effective UN treaty to end plastic pollution by 2040 . this include push for a full - lifecycle approach to plastic , design out unnecessary and problematic single - use plastic , and promote a circular economy in plastic . we have further measure to tackle single - use plastic under development . our incoming collection and packaging reform , which the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) refer to , be central to our mission of promote resource efficiency , move toward a more circular economy and away from the single - use model . we be put in place our extend producer responsibility scheme for packaging , which introduce measure that incentivise producer to make well decision and be more sustainable in their design and use of plastic packaging . we will ensure that producer pay the cost of manage the plastic that they put on the market , and will incentivise a reduction in single - use plastic by require they to pay high fee for unsustainable packaging . the hon . Lady speak about the deposit return scheme . today , the UK Government have announce an update on the drs , set out next step and reaffirm our commitment to deliver on this important project . our scheme will drive the transition to a circular economy by invest in recycling , reduce litter , and offer great opportunity to collect high - quality material for recycling . the update confirm interoperability across UK scheme , the delivery timeframe , and the UK Government ' s position on glass drink container and the implication of divergence from the UK internal market . after work closely with industry and the devolved administration , we have refresh our programme , and we be move ahead to introduce deposit return scheme for single - use drink container across the UK by October 2027 . we be committed to ensure that the scheme work , successively and collectively , across the UK . we be reduce complexity for business and consumer , and make sure that consumer behaviour be influence . we have work closely with devolved Administrations and agree alignment on various important point , include labelling , reciprocal return and container size . although the hon . Lady do not mention ban wet wipe , I will take the opportunity to do so . on Monday this week , we be pleased to announce that the UK Government and the devolved administration be to ban the supply and sale of wet wipe contain plastic across the UK . this follow the public consultation hold in autumn 2023 , in which 95 % of respondent support the propose ban . wet wipe pollute our environment . they have be find in large quantity in beach litter survey conduct by DEFRA and the Marine Conservation Society . in the period from 2015 to 2020 , an average of 20 . 4 wet wipe per 100 metre be find on UK beach survey . that be completely unacceptable . wet wipe , both those contain plastic and those classify as plastic free , be the fifth most find item in the 2022 great british beach clean , which be , again , unacceptable . in 2023 , the Marine Conservation Society report that 21 , 000 wet wipe be find on UK beach . plastic - contain wet wipe break down into small piece in the water environment , contribute towards microplastic pollution , which may be harmful to human and animal health . ban the supply and sale of plastic - contain wet wipe will significantly reduce the amount of single - use plastic getting into our environment from that source . that be why we make that announcement this week , which deliver on the Government ' s commitment . as part of the Prime Minister ' s vision of create a smoke - free generation , we be tackle the scourge of single - use disposable vape . that be why , on 10 April , we set draft legislation before the World Trade Organisation for its member to provide we with any comment . we aim to lay our draft legislation before Parliament before the summer recess . we be well aware of how much of a scourge litter and fly - tipping can be to our community . as constituency mp , we be all constantly challenge by fly - tipping . in my Keighley and Ilkley constituency , Bradford Council ' s decision to close our local household waste and recycling centre in Ilkley and Sugden end will unfortunately have a detrimental impact in the Worth valley and across my constituency through increase fly - tipping . the Government be also do more to clean up our community that bear the brunt of single - use plastic through fly - tipping . for example , we have significantly raise the upper limit on fix penalty notice by £ 1 , 000 for fly - tipping , and by £ 500 for litter . as of 1 April 2024 , council have to spend the income from these penalty on enforcement and clean up . DEFRA be also fund a post in the national rural crime unit , explore how the police ' s role in tackle fly - tipping can be optimise , with a focus on rural area . this work be part of the Prime Minister ' s antisocial behaviour plan , which set out how we will support council in take tough action against those who pollute our local environment . we have take regulatory action , and have support voluntary action by business . we be plan a raft of new regulatory action to tackle the scourge of single - use plastic . these action will have positive outcome , and will build on the work that we have do to date . we have introduce a carrier bag charge ; reduce single - use carrier bag consumption by 98 % ; ban the sale of wet wipe ; ban the sale of single - use straw , plastic container , stirrer and stem cotton bud ; introduce a ban on microbead in cosmetic product ; and roll out further ban on cutlery , balloon stick , expand polystyrene cup and takeaway food and drink container , and restriction on single - use plastic plate , bowl and tray . we be make great stride towards a circular economy through our commitment to collection and packaging reform . we be collaborate with the devolved administration on ban the supply and sale of plastic - contain wet wipe across the UK . we be increase penalty and crack down on those who fly - tip and litter , and we be announce a ban on disposable single - use vape . we be lead and fund international effort , as the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane , have do this week in Canada . finally , we be a member of the High Ambition Coalition , which be commit to negotiate an ambitious UN treaty on plastic . I hope that I have be able to reassure the House and the hon . member for Somerton and Frome that this Government be commit to reduce single - use plastic in this country , and be take action that will have tangible , real - world impact . I be pleased to be able to highlight from this Dispatch Box all the measure that this Government have take thus far , and the continue action that we will take to address the scourge of single - use plastic . question put and agree to . House adjourn .