Oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — trouble : Legacy and Reconciliation what his Department ' s planned timetable be for when the Independent Commission on Reconciliation and Information Recovery will be operational . what progress his Department have make on implement the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . I start by welcome the return of the devolve institution to Northern Ireland , follow the publication of the " safeguard the Union " Command Paper early this month and the Windsor framework , which be agree exactly a year ago yesterday . let I also take this opportunity to mention that the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission and the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland will celebrate their 25th anniversary on Friday . the Government be do all that we can to support the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery in deliver effectively for victim and family . significant progress have be make since the ICRIR be establish in December last year , and I expect the commission ' s door to open on 1 May . in the light of this morning ' s High Court ruling , do the Secretary of State still think that after 1 May the citizen of Northern Ireland should be the only people in the UK deny the right to seek justice for crime commit during the trouble , through civil case and inquest ? Mr Justice Colton hand down his judgment at 10 . 15 this morning . it be a very complex case . I be tell that the judgment run to over 200 page , and I be yet to see it . it will take some time to consider , but we will consider Mr Justice Colton ' s finding very carefully . we remain committed to implement the legacy Act . it be deeply concern that the Government ' s own impose 1 May deadline mean that inquest will be unable to conclude as they otherwise would . we have hear report that there be only one specialist in the Ministry of Defence deal with these inquiry , and that possibly MOD delay in provide material have cause additional hold - up . we really need to understand what the Government be do to ensure that inquest can conclude by the Government ' s self - impose deadline . I humbly remind the hon . Lady that the original deadline , before we table amendment to the Act , then a Bill , in the House of Lords , be 1 May 2023 , so there have be an extra year . the Government continue to assist the Northern Ireland court in good faith on legacy matter . there be no question of the Government deliberately seek to frustrate inquest . the Act allow a coroner to request a review of a death by the independent commission , lead by chief commissioner Sir Declan Morgan , if the inquest have not be conclude via the coronial process by 1 May 2024 . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Government ' s legacy Act be oppose by victim group , all the political party in Northern Ireland , the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission and other . this morning , the Belfast High Court find that the Act ' s immunity provision be not compliant with article 2 and 3 of the european convention on human right . give that immunity have always be present as the central foundation of the legacy Act , what do minister intend to do about the judgment , and how can the commission become operational when one of its central power have just be strike down ? as I say , this be a very complex case . the judgment run to over 200 page , which be first be report on less than 90 minute ago , so it will take some time to consider , but we remain committed to implement the legacy Act , include deliver the ICRIR . recognise that the issue raise in today ' s judgment will take some time to be conclusively determine by the high court — assume that the Government appeal — do the Secretary of State agree that it would be quite wrong to close the door on inquest and civil case from 1 May ? that will deny citizen in Northern Ireland right that citizen in the rest of the UK take for grant . will he therefore extend the deadline , not least to ensure that inquest that would otherwise be stop on 1 May can continue , so that a decision can be reach ? the right hon . Gentleman be quite right that this be a complex case that be likely to head to further action in the high court , but I want to consider the judgment carefully , look at all 200 page , and take the legal advice that he would expect I to take in such circumstance . we remain committed to implement the legacy Act , include deliver the ICRIR . the Union what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to safeguard Northern Ireland ' s place in the Union . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to safeguard Northern Ireland ' s place in the Union . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to safeguard Northern Ireland ' s place in the Union . the Government be fully commit to protect and uphold Northern Ireland ' s place in the Union , a commitment we reaffirm recently in the Command Paper " safeguard the Union " . that include proposal for new measure in domestic legislation to protect unfettered access to the UK internal market , and to affirm Northern Ireland ' s constitutional position as set out in the Belfast / Good Friday agreement . this Government be convince that that be the good way we can safeguard Northern Ireland ' s place in the United Kingdom . what action have my right hon . friend take to ensure that no new regulatory border between Great Britain and Northern Ireland can emerge from future agreement with the European Union ? we have end the presumption of automatic alignment with EU law by make it clear that the very narrow set of good rule that apply in Northern Ireland be subject to the democratic oversight of Stormont , include the Stormont brake . once the brake be trigger for a rule , or where an entirely new rule be bring forward , it will be for the UK to determine at the Joint Ministerial Committee whether that provision should apply in Northern Ireland . here again , the Government have establish the protection available through statute . we believe that there be very strong reason for say that we have end the presumption of automatic alignment . I congratulate my right hon . friend and the Minister of State on their very impressive achievement in restore the Northern Ireland Executive . do the Secretary of State agree that good cross - border transport link be vital to safeguard all part of our Union ? in my border constituency of Clwyd South , Iusb think of the electrification of the north Wales main line , which link to north - west England , and improve road link , such as the propose Pant - Llanymynech bypass between Wales and north Shropshire . I have to congratulate my hon . friend on make some excellent constituency point as well as highlight the importance of good transport link across our Union . the need for those link be recognise in the " safeguard the Union " Command Paper , and more recently , early this week , when we talk about the reinvestment of money that would have be spend on the northern section of High Speed 2 into ensure good connection across our country . those connection include the A75 , which be a vital connection between Scotland and Northern Ireland . the Union be strong when people can see and feel its benefit to their daily life . do my right hon . friend agree that a prosperous Northern Ireland , with a stable , devolve Government , be the sure way to safeguard the Union ' s integral place in the United Kingdom ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and I absolutely , 100 % agree with his sentiment . it be a real pleasure to see the devolved institution at Stormont up and run . you , Mr Speaker , have a new colleague there : the former Speaker be desperate to retire for two year — tribute be pay to Speaker Maskey at the time — but Speaker Poots be now in place . it have be wonderful , too , to see the new First Minister and Deputy First Minister work together to achieve good solution , on public service and a whole host of other thing , for the people of Northern Ireland . the Union be well serve by devolved institution work . I very much welcome everyone ' s commitment to that cause . this morning ' s High Court ruling confirm what every fair observer know : that the Government ' s legacy legislation be not compatible with human right . it put the need of perpetrator ahead of the need of victim , and it be not support by any party in Northern Ireland or across the island of Ireland . the Secretary of State can not truly believe that it serve the rule of law or our shared future in any constitutional arrangement . when will the Government repeal that completely unacceptable legislation ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question , but I be afraid that she will have to refer to the answer I give early . the Court judgment be hand down only early this morning ; it be a complex case and we have more than 200 page of judgment to consider . I do not even believe that the Government KC have go through the ruling yet in any great detail . we be not give any notice beforehand of what might be in it , but obviously I pledge that we will consider Mr Justice Colton ' s finding carefully . as I will continue to say , we remain committed to implement the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 , include delivery of the ICRIR . the recent " safeguard the Union " Command Paper claim to " copper - fasten Northern Ireland ' s political and constitutional place in the Union , " yet the british - irish agreement make it clear that the agree position be " for the people of the island of Ireland alone , by agreement between the two part respectively and without external impediment , to exercise their right of self - determination " . how do the Secretary of State square that clear contradiction in the UK Government ' s commitment to all the people of Northern Ireland ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . first , get the devolved institution in strand 1 of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement running be of vital importance , because it mean that the strand 2 institution can work properly for everyone in all community , and it also allow the strand 3 institution to work in a well way , because they can include representative such as the First Minister and the Deputy First Minister , and body such as the british - Irish Council , so there be a whole host of thing involve . the constitutional status of Northern Ireland obviously require the consent of a simple majority of its people . all the provision of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement still stand . one thing of great importance to this place be our education system , include the trip that people make to Parliament . we want to safeguard the Union , so what step be be take to ensure that student in Northern Ireland have equal access to educational tour of Westminster ? bear in mind that student in Northern Ireland should have the same access to they as those in England , but that the cost of fly over can be prohibitive , will consideration be give to additional funding to allow some sort of subsidisation ? Northern Ireland , be across the Irish sea , be in a geographic location that make travel difficult to other area of the United Kingdom . I understand the hon . Gentleman ' s keenness to help Northern Ireland student benefit from learn across the Union . we put in place a £ 3 . 3 billion financial package for the incoming executive that help we to achieve some of those objective by provide support for Northern Ireland , give its unique challenge . however , if he have individual case in mind , I would be interested to hear about they , and will consider what we might do in future . I call the leader of the DUP . far to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , will the Secretary of State join I in welcome the fact that the new UK East - West Council will have its first meeting next month in Belfast ? one of its key objective be to encourage great educational co - operation across the United Kingdom , as well as bind Northern Ireland more closely into the wide economy and the UK internal market . I be happy to join the right hon . gentleman in welcome the new East - West Council and its situation , and I also look forward to see the North South Ministerial Council functioning . the UK East - West Council will bring together a wealth of experience and knowledge from representative of the United Kingdom Government , the devolve Administrations , business and the culture sector , and educational leader . we be committed to get it work in March and do good thing . the Secretary of State refer early to the financial package that the Treasury have put in place to support our public service in Northern Ireland , but our commitment on public sector pay mean that there remain a significant gap in the next two financial year . will he work with we to seek further support from the Treasury , so that we can ensure that the Executive live within its budget and that we can pay our public sector worker a decent wage for the vital work they do ? again , I pay tribute to the right hon . gentleman for all his work to ensure that the devolved institution — the Executive and Stormont — can come back together . he have achieve an amazingly good , historic piece of work . it be good to see the Executive back up and run , make choice and opening negotiation with the union to get the public sector in Northern Ireland back on track , on pay and work . I believe that there be a meeting today between the Finance Minister and the Chief Secretary to the Treasury . I will always happily work with the right hon . gentleman on all those agenda . economic Growth what step his Department be take to help grow the Northern Ireland economy . what step his Department be take to help grow the Northern Ireland economy . what step his Department be take to help grow the Northern Ireland economy . the Government be commit to the economic growth of Northern Ireland , work closely with other UK Departments , the newly form Executive and NI business . our plan include boost trade and investment , build on the success of the Northern Ireland investment summit last year ; level up Northern Ireland ' s economy , include through our city and growth deal worth £ 617 million ; and implement the key deliverable of the " safeguard the Union " Command Paper . only last night , I attend Retail NI ' s supplier showcase , and I be very grateful to have make it back first thing this morning . I thank the Minister for that very full answer . give that the rest of the United Kingdom — the internal market — be the big market for Northern Ireland , what role do he see for the new InterTrade UK , particularly with respect to trade between Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about Northern Ireland ' s most important economic relationship be with Great Britain . as set out in the Command Paper , the Government be work to establish InterTrade UK , fulfil our pledge to grow the economy by ensure that business large and small can maximise the full range of east - west trading opportunity . implement the Windsor framework and the Command Paper be , of course , Government priority , and I be pleased that I be responsible for they . we will update the House in great detail at an early opportunity . the " safeguard the Union " Command Paper state that " there will be no check when good move within the UK internal market system save those conduct by UK authority as part of a risk - base or intelligence - lead approach " . regulation 13 of the Windsor Framework ( Retail Movement Scheme ) Regulations 2023 require official to check the ID number on the seal of all retail consignment enter Northern Ireland , and break open 5 % to 10 % for visual inspection . be my right hon . friend now able to confirm when , or if , that regulation will be remove ? I be most grateful to my hon . friend for his insightful and well - rehearse question — well - research question . [ laughter . ] perhaps I should not have get that early flight after all , Mr Speaker . as we set out in the Command Paper , as we transition to the UK internal market system , we will provide clear legal direction to the Department of Agriculture , Environment and Rural Affairs and other UK Government authority , through our risk management approach , to eliminate any physical check when good move within the UK internal market system , except those conduct by UK authority and require as part of a risk - base or intelligence - lead approach to manage the risk of criminality , abuse of the scheme , smuggling and disease risk . I recognise the importance of my hon . friend ' s question , and I will update the House on our plan in great detail at the early reasonable opportunity , which I hope and intend will be before we break for the Easter recess . it be good news that the Executive be back up and run . will my right hon . friend ensure that the new Executive take full advantage of all the devolve capability they have , particularly on taxation , to encourage the private sector to grow and thrive in Northern Ireland ? I will certainly give the Executive every support , while of course respect the devolution settlement . to give my hon . friend one example , the reason I be in Northern Ireland last night with Retail NI be to promote the Department for Business and Trade ' s terrific offering in Northern Ireland , which include a trade and investment hub that cover the UK Export Academy and the export support service . there be now 16 DBT export champion , which include in - person support . if anyone wish to learn great detail , I recommend that they go to the great . gov . uk website . will the Minister liaise with the relevant Departments in Northern Ireland to maximise the benefit of promote and develop the only enterprise zone in Northern Ireland , which be in my constituency , as be excellent broadband facility — the good in these island ? that way , we can promote our economy , bring inward investment and create prosperity . the hon . Gentleman make a great case for his constituency , and I would certainly like to see terrific level of investment into it . however , I would like we to go far : I would like to see that investment zone reach right across the whole of Northern Ireland . I hope and expect that together , the UK Government and the restore Executive will make the most of that opportunity . why do the UK Government think it be good thing for Northern Ireland to have access to part of the EU single market , but not for other part of the United Kingdom to have such access , particularly those part of the United Kingdom that vote to remain in the EU and the single market ? I be most grateful to the hon . member for his question , but he will know two thing . first , the word " access " be somewhat contested . I would encourage he to go and look at the figure for trade between the United Kingdom and the EU , and satisfy himself of the effect of our leave the European Union . secondly , in all seriousness , we should all reflect carefully on the status and circumstance , not only of geography but of history , of Northern Ireland . it be because of the unique status of Northern Ireland that we have be able to agree unique arrangement , and I do not imagine the European Union would have agree those unique arrangement for any other territory . I call the shadow Minister . accord to a Northern Ireland Affairs Committee report , Northern Ireland receive proportionately less than Scotland , Wales and England in the first round of level - up funding . in the late round of funding in November , not a penny be allocate to Northern Ireland , and the Government say this be because the Executive be not sit . be there good news for the people of Northern Ireland today ? now that power sharing have be restore , will the Secretary of State update the House on any discussion he have have about ensue that a fair share of levelling - up funding go to Northern Ireland ? the hon . Lady raise a very important point , and I will be glad to continue such conversation with the Executive . as she know , we have make available a generous package of £ 3 . 3 billion overall . we be have conversation on the detail of those area of funding that have be repurpose , and those conversation will continue . when we can update the House in fuller detail , we will of course be glad to do so . East - West Business Council what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the propose east - west business council . the Government be work to establish an east - west business council , as set out in the Command Paper , fulfil our pledge to establish a unique forum — for key representative across the United Kingdom from Government , business and the education sector — to identify opportunity for deepen connection between Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK in important area such as trade , transport , education and culture . I shall be in regular contact with other Ministers across Government to ensure the timely delivery of this commitment . I thank the Minister for his answer . the Economic Statistics Centre of Excellence have estimate that 80 % of northern irish freight export to England come through Scotland , while a considerable proportion of NI trade with Britain be direct trade between the north of Ireland and Scotland . give this , what concrete role do he see , or propose , for the Scottish Government on the new East - West Council ? of course , the Government of Scotland have their right and be entitle to be part of these arrangement , and we shall be respectful in engage with the Scottish Government to ensure they play a full part , fully respect the devolution settlement . do my right hon . friend agree that the Northern Ireland Members of the UK - EU Parliamentary Partnership Assembly , include the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) , play a very important role in improve understanding between the EU and the UK about the way in which the trade and co - operation agreement should work , and in ease the way for a well relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union ? I do agree with my right hon . and learn Friend . I pay tribute to he for the lead role he play in that forum , and I be most grateful to he . a large number of colleague , whatever their view on exit the European Union , have put a great deal of effort into build up the bond of friendship that be so important as we go forward under the trade and co - operation agreement . I be most grateful to he for highlight the important work of that forum , and I again pay tribute to he for his lead role . I call the SNP spokesperson . the East - West Council , as propose , be something that I be personally very enthusiastic about , because it potentially open up a space in which Scotland and Northern Ireland can co - operate , along with other part of the UK , on all that they have in common economically , socially and culturally , and that we will continue to have in common irrespective of whatever constitutional arrangement may be in place in future . will the ministerial team at the Northern Ireland Office agree to meet I , so we can discuss how Scotland could play a positive role in that and to get the engagement with other part right ? yes , of course . we would be delighted to meet the hon . member to discuss those matter . we now come to Prime Minister ' s question . we be join in the Gallery today by Dr Andreas Norl é n , the Speaker of the Swedish Parliament , and his delegation . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 28 February . I know the thought of the whole House will be with the friend and family of Lord Cormack and Ronnie Campbell . they be dedicate parliamentarian . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I will have further such meeting later today . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer . I be certain that everyone in this Chamber will agree , whatever their political standpoint , that we should be able to think , speak and vote without fear or favour , but today I need to ask about the painful subject of dental care in Clacton , which be in crisis . our integrate care system have find the money , and a private firm have find the student , to massively increase dental appointment in my patch , but paper - pusher in NHS England keep cite spurious reason to prevent this groundbreaking initiative from be deploy . do my right hon . friend agree that be scandalous , should be deal with and those people block it hold to account ? our dentistry recovery plan will make dental service fast , simple and fair for patient , include in Clacton , and will fund around 2 . 5 million more appointment . the matter that my hon . friend raise , as he will know , be a local matter , so the integrate care board will determine whether it wish to support the pilot proposal in Clacton , but I know that the Minister for Public Health , my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) have write to my hon . friend about the proposal , and I hope that her letter address his concern . I call the Leader of the Opposition . may I join the Prime Minister in his remark about Lord Cormack and Ronnie Campbell ? Tory mp spend last week claim that Britain be run by a shadowy cabal make up of activist , the deep state and , most chillingly of all , the Financial Times . at what point do his party give up on govern and become the political wing of the Flat Earth Society ? this be another week when the right hon . and learn Gentleman just snipe from the sideline , because he have absolutely nothing he can say about what he will do . we be get on with deliver on the people ' s priority : the number of small boat be down by a third ; NHS performance be improve ; inflation be continue to fall ; and while we be deliver a significant tax cut for million of work Britons , his incoherent energy plan would put taxis up for everyone across the country . the Prime Minister ' s predecessor , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , spend last week in America try to flog her new book . in search of fame and wealth , she have take to slag off — [ interruption . ] they make her Prime Minister , now they can not bear talk about she . in search of fame and wealth , she have take to slag off and undermine Britain at every opportunity . she claim that , as Prime Minister , she be sabotage by the deep state . she also remain silent as Tommy Robinson , that right - wing thug , be describe as a hero . why be the Prime Minister allow she to stand as a Tory MP at the next election ? I do not believe that a single member of this House support Tommy Robinson , but if the right hon . and learn Gentleman want to talk about former leader and predecessor , the whole country know his record : he sit there while antisemitism run rife in his party ; and he back not once but twice a man who call Hamas " friend " . to their credit , the shadow Chancellor , the shadow Home Secretary and , indeed , the shadow Foreign Secretary refuse to back the former labour leader , but he do not , because he be spineless , hopeless and utterly shameless . I have change my party for the well ; the Prime Minister be be change by his party . he be let the right hon . member for South West Norfolk stand because he be too weak to do anything about it . it be the story of his leadership . when the Tories refuse to accept any blame for the ruin of the past 14 year , one wonder who they think have be run the country all this time . thankfully , the former Prime Minister be on hand again to help : it turn out that it be all the fault of the medium , the corporate world and — bizarrely — the President of the United States . Winston Churchill once say : " the price of greatness be responsibility . " now , the british public be not expect greatness from this Prime Minister , just a bit of accountability . do he not think it would be great if , just for once , the Tories take some responsibility ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman talk about leadership , and about change , but when I learn of something that I do not agree with , I suspend one of my mps straightaway . when he learn of vile antisemitic remark make by a labour candidate , what do he do ? he instruct his team to defend he , he send a shadow Cabinet Minister to campaign for he , and he personally back he for day . that be the difference between we : I act on my principle ; he have not get any . I can not believe the Prime Minister say that with a straight face . the former Prime Minister continue on her american odyssey — this journey into the wild west of her mind — and claim that Nigel Farage be the man to restore the Tory party . will the Prime Minister confirm whether he , too , would welcome Mr Farage back into the Tory fold ? in our party , we have a proud tradition of diversity and accept everyone from every background — indeed , it be a proud record that put Labour to shame . this be the party that deliver the first jewish Prime Minister , the first female Prime Minister , the first black Chancellor and the first Muslim Home Secretary , and it be now lead by the first british - asian Prime Minister . while it seem that the right hon . and learn Gentleman can only champion man from north London , it be the Conservatives who represent modern Britain . so this diverse Tory party do welcome Nigel Farage . two month ago , the Prime Minister say that " the Tory party be a broad church . I welcome lot of people who want to subscribe to our ideal , to our value . " that be the same Nigel Farage who say he agree with the basic premise of Enoch Powell ' s " river of blood " speech and bemoan the influence of the jewish lobby . be the Prime Minister simply too scare to stand up to the gaggle of Tory mp who moonlight as GB News presenter , or do he genuinely think that Nigel Farage share the ideal and value of the Tory party ? the right hon . and learn Gentleman want to talk about value , but tomorrow in Rochdale the people will have a choice of three former labour candidate , two of whom be antisemite . the truth be , his party be so mired in hate that despite three ex - labour candidate stand , he can not back a single one of they . we expel antisemite — he make they labour candidate . the truth be that these be no long the Tories your parent vote for , and the public can see it . the Prime Minister have lose control of his party to the horde of redcoat and malcontent . the tin - foil hat brigade on his Benches and the extremist who wreck the economy be all line up to undermine he , humiliate he and eventually get rid of he . when will he ever stand up to they and end the pathetic spectacle of a Tory party that use to try to beat Nigel Farage now give up and dance to his tune instead ? that be utterly shameless from someone who stand by while antisemitism run rife in his party , oversee the appalling situation in Rochdale and twice back the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) . in the last few week , we have see member of Parliament ' s home surround , their event disrupt and council meeting threaten . just last week , we see the very rule that govern this place abuse because of intimidation . while the right hon . and learn Gentleman might want to bend to mob rule , we will face down the extremist and stand up for british value . two year ago last Saturday , russian force launch their heinous attack on Ukraine . the response of the British Government and the british people have be magnificent . I pay tribute to all those who have do so much , not least in my own constituency of Bracknell , where ukrainian people have be so warmly welcome . we must never bow to tyranny , so could the Prime Minister please assure the House that our support for Ukraine and all our NATO ally will continue to be unwavering ? I join my hon . friend in thank people up and down the country , include the people of Bracknell , for welcome ukrainian family into their home and community . during my visit to Ukraine in January I announce a major new package of support , include £ 2 . 5 billion of military assistance . last week , we announce 50 new sanction that target individual and business that be sustain Putin ' s illegal war machine . our support to Ukraine will never waver . I call the Scottish National party leader . some 30 , 000 people dead ; 70 , 000 injure ; 1 . 5 million shelter in Rafah ; 300 , 000 live in feral condition in northern Gaza ; and , of course , 100 hostage still tragically hold by Hamas . the horror of those number demand that this House have its say , just as it show that this House should demand an immediate ceasefire . President Biden have indicate that the ceasefire may take place from Monday . do the Prime Minister share his confidence ? we have consistently call for an immediate humanitarian pause , which would allow for the safe release of hostage — include british national — and more aid to Gaza . we welcome progress on a deal . as the hon . Gentleman say , there have be progress , and we urge everyone on all side to seize the opportunity . I have be clear that we must seize the momentum from this terrible tragedy to find a last resolution to this conflict that deliver on the promise of a two - state solution , and ensure that Israelis and Palestinians can live in dignity and security . we be approach five month since this conflict begin . in that time , this House have equivocate and , on three occasion at the United Nations , this Government have abstain when they could have vote for a ceasefire . Abstentionism be not leadership . should this matter now come before the United Nations , with a ceasefire potentially in sight , will the Prime Minister use his government ' s vote to deliver that ceasefire ? we support the United States ' draft resolution that be discuss with colleague at the United Nations last week . but just call for an immediate , full ceasefire now , which collapse back into fighting within day or week and do not include the release of hostage , include british one , be not in anyone ' s interest . we must work towards a permanent ceasefire . that start with an immediate humanitarian pause , to get aid in and hostage out . I agree about the suffering of the people in Gaza ; in this country we should be proud of everything we be do to help they and to provide they with the lifesave aid they deserve . I be sure that we be all proud of our open Government , the availability of information and our open datum , but with machine learning and artificial intelligence become more prevalent , do the Prime Minister agree that now be the time to look at license this information where it be to be use for commercial gain and to inform intelligence that will disrupt society and our economy ? I join my hon . friend in his passion for AI . like he , I be proud of our record at the forefront of the AI revolution , have create one of the world ' s first AI safety institute , establish the " State of AI " report and host the world ' s first ever global AI safety summit . I will ensure that he meet the relevant Minister to discuss his proposal to ensure that we can harness the opportunity of AI and protect ourselves against the risk that it pose . Plaid Cymru have sign full fact ' s pledge for an honest general election campaign . one of full fact ' s four ask be to renounce deceptive campaigning tactic . there be evidence of egregious , mislead campaigning in Wales and elsewhere by the Conservatives in recent week . we all have a responsibility to campaign honestly , because the alternative be to be complicit in dismantle democracy . therefore , will the Prime Minister sign full Fact ' s pledge for an honest election ? I be pleased to be in Wales just last week , and these be the fact on the ground : the labour - run Welsh NHS be perform the bad in the United Kingdom ; small Welsh business , include pub and restaurant , be face a crippling rise in their business rate ; and Welsh farmer be be decimate by the plan of the Welsh Labour Government . those be the fact in Wales and we will continue to point they out at every opportunity . there be 4 , 000 patient in Carshalton and Wallington face uncertainty after landlord pull out of discussion the day before their GP practice ' s lease expire and then issue notice that it be trespass . the local integrate care board have issue a very weak statement , and the local Liberal Democrat - run council be refuse to meet the practice and I . those 4 , 000 patient be now unsure whether they will have a surgery to go to . can the Prime Minister assure I that when such decision be take by landlord , there be appropriate infrastructure in place to support NHS patient before they be cast out to try to find somewhere else to go ? as my hon . friend will know , GP lease be commercial agreement between landlord and tenant , but he be right that everything that can be do should be do to ensure that GP surgery do not have to close . that be why , in March last year , we commission a review into legislation govern these lease . the review will create a new framework that will make leasing to tenant , such as GP surgery and other group , easy and more accessible . but I know that his local resident will want this to be sort as soon as possible , in order to take advantage of the extra appointment that we be create so that people can get access to the primary care they need . one of the few good thing to come out of Wednesday ' s stramash last week be that the House unite around a call for an immediate ceasefire . now , I welcome that — that be progress . the Prime Minister be just give an opportunity by my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) to commit to the UK ' s representative in the United Nations and elsewhere articulate that position of this House . if they be not go to do that , what will he say to those of we who say this place really be just a sick pantomime ? as I outline previously , it be not right to call for an immediate ceasefire that would collapse instantly into more fighting and not do anything to get more aid into Gaza to alleviate the suffering that people be experience , or to make sure that we can safely remove hostage , include british hostage . that have be our consistent position . we have be call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire which will provide the condition for a lasting and sustainable peace , but just call for something that will collapse back into fighting be not in anyone ' s interest . all our diplomatic effort , at the United Nations and elsewhere , be target at bring that about . I be pleased that in recent day progress have be make . we should keep pressure on all party to come to a resolution . do my right hon . friend share my enthusiasm about Monday ' s announcement of 27 new potential bathing water site across the country , include three in Shropshire : two on the River Severn at Ironbridge and Shrewsbury , and one on the River Teme at Ludlow ? how will those very welcome designation improve the quality of river in Shropshire and in the other area under consideration ? on Monday we launch a consultation on the large ever roll - out of new bathing water site : 27 potential new bathing water in England , include an extra one on the River Teme in Ludlow in my right hon . friend ' s constituency . he be right that substantial improvement have be make in recent year . almost 90 % of designate bathing water in England now meet the high standard of good or excellent , up from just 76 % in 2010 ; all part of our plan for water which , alongside those on the Conservative Benches vote for the strict storm overflow target and plan for unlimited penalty for pollute water company , be oppose by the Labour party . the parent of a two - year - old in the UK be currently spend more than £ 14 , 000 a year on a full - time nursery place . last year the Prime Minister promise parent that in April 2024 there would be a new free childcare offer . with only a month to go , parent do not know whether they can access that offer , because of staff shortage and the lack of childcare space . will the parent to whom the Prime Minister make that promise be able to accept the offer that he talk about last year , or be this another example of a broken Tory promise ? we be deliver on what we say , which be 30 hour of free childcare a week for work parent of child from when they be nine month old until they start school . that be the large ever expansion of childcare in our country ' s history . perhaps the hon . Lady might want to have a conversation with her Welsh Labour colleague , who be give the funding to deliver childcare expansion in Wales , and what have they do ? they have pocket the money instead of match our plan to support parent in England . the notorious crossroad between Ulley Lane and Treeton Lane , just outside Aughton in my constituency , be just one of several major road safety and highway issue that have be ignore for decade by Labour - control Rotherham Council . I will be present a petition to this place tell the council to end this chaotic mismanagement , but may I also ask for the Prime Minister ' s support in urge both the Labour council and the Labour Mayor to listen to resident and get the junction sort — to stop the huge tailback , save life , get Rother Valley move , and end this war against car in my constituency ? my hon . friend raise an important point , and he be right to champion his constituent in this way . when Labour run thing , it do just run they badly . he can be assure that we have provide Rotherham Council with three quarter of a million pound for safety improvement to local road , and we be continue to provide for his constituent with a furth £ 1 billion allocate to his local area in the second round of the city region sustainable transport settlement . because of the decision that we make on hs2 , community , town and city across the north and the midland will receive billion of pound for transport project that will make a difference to he and his constituent far quick than anything else that be plan . another 80 victim of the contaminated blood scandal have die since Sir Brian Langstaff make his final recommendation on compensation to the Government in April 2023 , which be 321 day ago . will the Prime Minister join the family who be lobby member of Parliament here today to explain why his Government have fail to implement any of those recommendation 11 month on ? I be acutely aware of the strength of feeling on this issue , and the suffering of all those impact by this dreadful scandal . we have consistently acknowledge that justice should be deliver . I give evidence to the infected blood public inquiry last year , and the Government have accept the moral case for compensation , which be why on Monday , in the other place , we commit to bring forward amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill at Report stage , with the intention of speed up the implementation of our response to the inquiry . I thank the Prime Minister sincerely for the extra £ 244 million announce this week for transport investment in Shropshire , which come on top of £ 300 million for the modernisation of our local accident and emergency service , level - up fund to modernise Shrewsbury town centre , and full funding for the north - west relief road , the ring road around Shrewsbury . these infrastructure project will have a major benefit in Shropshire , and not just for we but for those who follow we . there be , however , one issue that I would like to raise with the Prime Minister : how Shropshire Council be fund to deal with adult social care cost . we have a disproportionately age population in Shropshire , and the council be struggle to meet those additional cost . what more can be do to help such council deal with rise adult social care cost ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work he do represent his constituent . he be right about the pressure that be face , particularly in rural area , which be why the Government provide £ 600 million of additional funding for local government across the country , ensure an increase of around 7 . 5 % in resource available to invest in social care , but also an extra addition to the rural service delivery grant — an acknowledgement of the challenge of provide service in rural area — with more funding for those rural council to deliver . my constituent Lee Haywood in Dalmarnock be on a communal heat network and have see both his standing charge and his energy bill absolutely soar . the heat network market framework be introduce in 2021 , but the Minister in the Lords say in a letter last week that his " ambition " be that price regulation will only start in spring 2026 . be it this Government ' s incompetence or Ofgem ' s lack of power that be let down constituent who can not afford to put on their heating this winter ? as the hon . Lady will know , stand charge be a matter for the independent regulator , Ofgem , which be currently look at all those thing as part of a consultation . more generally , it be this Government who be provide considerable support to family across the country , include in Scotland , with their energy bill . I be sure she will join I in welcome the recent announcement about the fall in energy bill , bring they back to level that we have not see in a long time , on top of the cost of live support that the Chancellor have provide so that everyone in our country get the help that they need . Werrington Fields be a much - love open space cherish by local resident and use by the nearby school as play field . shockingly , Peterborough City Council propose to fence off almost the entire area , reject a compromise that most resident and the school be happy with . bizarrely , the local council seek to blame the Secretary of State for Education , myself and even the Prime Minister . will my right hon . friend get behind my campaign to save Werrington Fields and make it clear — right here , right now — that this be a matter entirely for the local authority ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for champion his constituent on this matter . as he know , last year the Education Secretary rightly reject Peterborough City Council ' s application to change the play field land at Ken Stimson Community School from educational land to public open space . that decision ensure that child will have access to the open space that they deserve , but I be tell by the Department that the council can provide for some of that land to be fence and that the Department would be comfortable with that , provide that the overall site remain educational land . that be something that I know he want to see , and the Department be ready to work with he to ensure that happen . after yesterday ' s revelation that Nick Read , the Post Office CEO , be under investigation follow an 80 - page report write by the former head of hr at the Post Office , do the Prime Minister and the Business Secretary have confidence in Nick Read ' s leadership at the Post Office ? it would clearly be inappropriate for I to comment on an investigation before it have be complete . our focus remain work closely with the Post Office to ensure that it deliver justice for postmaster catch up in this historic scandal , which be why we will imminently bring forward the legislation that we promise . a few year ago , there be a proposal to build nearly 7 , 000 house in a beautiful part of my constituency near the village of Castor and Ailsworth , against the wish of local resident . I work with the local community , and together we be able to stop the development . however , effort be now be make to include this land in a revise Peterborough local plan . do the Prime Minister agree that it be very important that the voice of the local community be hear and that it be unacceptable that development can take place in this circuitous way , especially when other , more suitable land be available in and around the city of Peterborough ? my right hon . friend raise an important issue , and he be right to say that the local community should always have their voice hear . it be important that council bring forward local plan , but this must be do in close consultation with local community , because their voice matter . as I understand it , the Peterborough local plan be still under preparation and there be opportunity to provide comment on the draft plan , so I commend he for continue to support his local community to ensure that their voice be hear . the Prime Minister talk about thing go backwards . the UK be the only western G7 power in recession , with seven consecutive quarter of no growth . that be the bad since record begin in 1955 . can the Prime Minister tell the business go bust , the family struggle to pay their bill , and the people be make homeless why this recession , which have his name write all over it , be a good thing for our country ? the hon . Lady might want to check some of the fact that she just outline to the House ; they be not quite right . perhaps she would like to explain to the country why her party be stick with a completely incoherent energy policy that will saddle work family with £ 28 billion of high tax rise and high energy bill . since 2019 , the Prime Minister have have our back in Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke , with record funding for our local transport , over £ 200 million for Stoke and Staffordshire to repair pothole , over £ 30 million to improve our bus network with cheap fare and new and extended route , fund to upgrade Kidsgrove and Stoke - on - trent railway station and bring back the Stoke to Leek line — and this week stoke - on - Trent and Staffordshire have see a tenfold increase in transport funding year in , year out . I know the opposition like to talk down Stoke - on - Trent North , Kidsgrove and Talke , but isn ' t it true that this Prime Minister and this conservative party be the only one with a plan to improve and well connect our community and fix our break road and pavement ? as ever , my hon . friend be a fantastic champion for Stoke - on - Trent , and he be right : over the next several year , his area will receive 10 time as much as it currently do to invest in local transport scheme as a result of this Government ' s decision on HS2 . but he be also right to say that after year of be neglect by the party opposite , it be this Conservative Government that be level up across the country and in Stoke - on - Trent , champion by fantastic mp like he . the advent of the Cromarty Firth green freeport be most welcome . what discussion have the Prime Minister have with the Scottish Government , who will be responsible for ensure that there be a robust road network associate with the freeport and that there will be sufficient housing for the influx of worker who we hope will contribute to our dream of the fabrication of offshore renewable structure ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s support for the freeport . we be take advantage of our Brexit opportunity to deliver two freeport in Scotland to attract job and investment in the industry of the future . with regard to infrastructure investment , not only do we provide the tax benefit for a freeport but £ 25 million of seed funding be available to the freeport , in discussion with the Government , that can be use on local infrastructure improvement that make sense to develop the opportunity that the freeport provide . the AUKUS programme be not just a national endeavour design to keep our nation safe ; it be also an international partnership that speak about our ambitious work across the globe to pursue security and contain threat . I want to personally thank the Prime Minister for his engagement with the Team Barrow initiative , which be bring together senior civil servant , my council , BAE Systems and myself to drive this programme forward to make sure we can deliver those boat to time and to budget . that mean improve and invest in the local area considerably . with that in mind , may I invite the Prime Minister to Barrow to meet not just the fantastic people build the boat of the future but to see how the programme be go to uplift Furness for the future ? at a time of great instability around the world , with the war in Ukraine and in the Red sea , my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that AUKUS be a game - change defence and security partnership that will keep we safe and create thousand of job in the UK shipyard and the supply chain , build on the investment in place such as Barrow and Derby . he be a fantastic champion of what this industry mean in his area , and the Team Barrow partnership be a crucial component of ensure that AUKUS be a success . that be why the Chancellor provide million of pound of funding for a delivery board for Barrow . we have recently discuss this at Cabinet and I look forward to visit my hon . friend and his community to see the progress for myself when my diary allow . last weekend , the Prime Minister pose for photograph with a group that share extremist conspiracy theory on climate change and campaign against net zero . do he share their view ? that be no way to talk about the Welsh farming community . my integrate care board tell I that only £ 2 million of the £ 120 million of capital that it receive annually be for primary care , which seem an unfairly small amount for our amazing family doctor and practice nurse who be , after all , the front door of the NHS . can our local general practitioner have a great share ? I thank my hon . friend for his excellent and continue campaign on health provision for his constituent . on his specific point , integrate care board have the power to increase their primary care annual capital management budget , so long as they keep within the overall budget . I understand that he meet a Health Minister early this week to discuss this far , and I will make sure that his proposal be very carefully consider . the Prime Minister have just tell my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) that , as a Minister , it be inappropriate for he to comment on the bullying allegation at the Post Office , yet he allow his Business and Trade Secretary to comment freely , loudly and often on Twitter . be he content with her activity and behaviour in this respect ? the Business and Trade Secretary set out her position explicitly and clearly in the House last week . since then , and despite some of the claim make by the party opposite , the Department ' s permanent secretary have completely refute the claim that be make . yesterday , the Post Office ' s current ceo and the Department ' s director of business resilience also refute Mr Staunton ' s recollection . our focus and priority be deliver justice and compensation for those who suffer a historic injustice . we be introduce legislation to right this wrong , and we will make sure that everyone get the compensation they deserve . the £ 132 million allocate to Cornwall from the share prosperity fund not only keep our promise to the cornish people to replace EU funding , but have support dozen of business and funded project across the duchy . however , the current round of SPF expire next year , so can the Prime Minister confirm that his Government will continue the share prosperity funding and will continue to provide the support that the cornish economy need ? it be great to visit my hon . friend in his constituency the other week to see the delight of Cornwall . I wish everyone a happy St Piran ' s day for next week . Cornwall have be award over £ 130 million through the UK share prosperity fund to deliver , I think , a hundred different project across the county . funding be confirm for this spending review period up to the end of March 2025 but , as with all Government funding , decision regard the fund ' s future be a matter for the next spending review . I assure my hon . friend that we remain committed to an ambitious levelling - up agenda in Cornwall and across the country . Post Office Board and Governance ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade if she will make a statement on what step be be take to restore public confidence in the Post Office board and governance follow evidence take at yesterday ' s Business and Trade Committee . I sit there for five hour listen to all the evidence that be give to the Select Committee yesterday . several serious allegation have now be make against the Government , my Department and its official by Henry Staunton . his most recent revelation be that there be an ongoing hr investigation that involve both he and the Post Office CEO Nick Read . I have to say as a former chair that I clearly find that statement to the Select Committee highly unprofessional . the fact that Nick Read be be investigate be evidence that no one be untouchable and the Post Office culture be change . an investigation be of course not evidence that allegation be accurate . while Nick Read have co - operate fully , Mr Staunton try to block the investigation look at his conduct . it be this action , as well as his attempt to bypass the formal process to appoint a new director to the board , which lead the Secretary of State to lose confidence in Mr Staunton . as be say in the Business and Trade Committee yesterday , board member feel so strongly about Mr Staunton ' s conduct that they be go to resign . it be right that the Government decide to act . Mr Staunton have now make a series of allegation which we strongly reject . he be use the Nick Read investigation to divert attention from the issue the Select Committee be discuss about his dismissal . the allegation make be also prove to be a further distraction from the victim of this injustice . his central allegation be that the Government tell he to slow down compensation payment . not a single person back he up on this claim . my official be clear that they have never be instruct to do this . Post Office executive be clear that such an instruction be never pass on to they . we have provide a letter from June 2023 from my Department to Mr Staunton tell he the opposite . his only evidence be a note of a conversation which be clearly about operational financing of the Post Office business ; this be entirely different from compensation to sub - postmaster . the permanent secretary write recently to give her truthful account of what happen . we also release her office ' s contemporaneous note of that meeting . Mr Staunton allege that the Secretary of State refuse to apologise to he after he learn of his dismissal from Sky News ; this be not the case . he claim there be pressure on Nick Read to send a letter to the Justice Secretary ; this be not the case . he claim the Secretary of State tell he that someone have get to take the rap for the Horizon scandal and that be the reason for his dismissal ; this be not the case . the Post Office face unprecedented challenge and need to work at pace to deliver compensation to the thousand of postmaster who fall victim to a flawed it system as well as continue the essential work to implement the necessary operational and cultural change need within the business . as we have repeatedly say , Post Office governance be a priority for the Government ; that be why we act swiftly to remove a chair about whom there be serious concern and allegation and why we be work at pace to appoint an interim chair . we of course recognise the seriousness of an investigation into individual at the Post Office . I also recognise parliamentary and public concern and the need to ensure there be confidence in the Post Office leadership . I will therefore ask the Post Office to provide I with the finding of the investigation once it be complete . however , it be right to wait for this investigation to conclude before make any further judgment . I be really disappointed that the Secretary of State herself be not here , but I thank the Minister the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) for everything he do for post office and be happy to work with he go forward . prominent Horizon victim be still say financial redress be far too slow . legal representative of victim say yesterday that redress scheme be not work for victim — too much " lawyere " go on , too much obfuscation . lawyer say complete claim might have settle for less than they be entitle to and might need to be revisit . Neil Hudgell suggest that August deadline target will not be meet and the current compensation impasse could continue for another one or two year . Henry Staunton ' s claim persist . why have the Prime Minister refuse to back up the Secretary of State , refuse to repeat the claim that Staunton lie ? this be the third time we have be here to find out about the circumstance of Mr Staunton ' s departure . the last time the Secretary of State mention investigation into Staunton but fail to reveal an 80 - page investigation into current ceo Nick Read . with all we have see about the Secretary of State ' s past assurance be undermine , how can we trust her firm assurance now ? do the Secretary of State have faith in the Post Office board , which be clearly in total disarray ? there be even claim that the chief executive officer , Nick Read , have threaten to resign over pay . victim and the public have lose faith in the Post Office board and governance . when more than £ 1 . 2 billion of public money be be spend on financial redress , the taxpayer ought to have confidence that cost will not be drive up far by mismanagement . the evidence from yesterday ' s Business and Trade Committee show that the public and victim have no reason to be confident , as incompetence and obfuscation have mar the process until now . sub - postmaster say that redress scheme be not work . victim agree . the lawyer say that they be not work and the former chair of the Post Office say that they be not work . why should we trust the Government , and what will the Minister do to fix this ? I should say that the Secretary of State be abroad at a World Trade Organisation conference . I thank the hon . Lady once again from this Dispatch Box for all that she do on behalf of postmaster . interestingly , in his evidence yesterday , Mr Staunton say that he have no concern over the speed of compensation , which I think astound both the hon . Lady and I . we have be fight for year to try to improve the speed of compensation . that be just one more concern that people might have with Mr Staunton ' s evidence , but it be clearly state in one of his response . it be right that we constantly seek to improve the speed of compensation and to make sure that it be full and fair and be see to be so . one reason that I spend all day listen to the evidence yesterday be to make sure that we be do everything possible to accelerate compensation . I hear some interesting conversation in the evidence session , include idea from Mr Hudgell and other on how we can accelerate compensation , which we be very keen to do . the hon . Lady will know that the late figure be quote yesterday at the Select Committee hearing . on the group litigation order scheme , for example , 106 full claim have be submit , 104 offer have be make , and 80 have be accept without reference to the independent panel , which would tend to indicate that the offer be make be fair . the hon . Lady will also recognise from the announcement that we make on Monday during the statement that we have introduce a £ 450 , 000 interim compensation figure for when people submit their full claim for the overturned conviction . when an offer be make , we will provide 80 % of that initial offer to claimant in the GLO scheme . interestingly , Henry Staunton seem to think that the big concern with the compensation scheme be around the overturned conviction — he clearly say that yesterday — when the hon . Lady and every member of this House know that we announce legislation on Monday , and previously , that will overturn the conviction en masse , which be unprecedented . obviously , that be the key to unlock compensation . for all those reason , we should not take Henry Staunton ' s evidence at face value . Mr Staunton continue to insist that he be tell to delay compensation for the postmaster , but at the Select Committee hearing yesterday he say that , unlike his own note , the publish note of the meeting with Sarah Munby be not contemporaneous . can the Minister undertake to provide a contemporaneous note of that conversation to put this accusation to bed once and for all ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for her work on the Select Committee . it be one thing to criticise Ministers , but entirely another to sully the good name of a civil servant . Sarah Munby have be very clear in her letter that she publish on this matter that Mr Staunton be wrong . she have also be very clear that she have contemporaneous note of that meeting , and we will be publish those note that will clarify and back up the fact that Henry Staunton be wrong and that Sarah Munby be right . I call the shadow Minister . what we see yesterday be unedifye and , at point , a fiasco . sub - postmaster watch will have rightly be dismay and will have feel that , if anything , they be move far away from justice . the ongoing conflict at the top of the Post Office and the failure of the Government to get a grip be help no one and be only far erode trust in this process . the Secretary of State should reflect on how her approach to the news of recent week have only exacerbate that . we , and especially victim , have all have enough of the " he say , she say " . do the Minister now recognise that the good way to end this be by fully clarify what the Government have or have not say , through an independent Cabinet Office investigation ? may I also pick up on some very worrying evidence give yesterday by Carl Creswell , the director of business resilience in the Department for Business and Trade ? when talk about the financial provision set aside for Horizon compensation , he say : " I personally think we will end up spend more money on compensation overall than that £ 1 billion figure , which be model at an early stage . " that be incredibly serious . do the Minister share that view hold by one of his senior civil servant ? if so , what conversation have he have with Government colleague and will we see that reflect in next week ' s Budget ? will the Minister clarify whether he or the Secretary of State be aware that Nick Read be also under investigation , as be allegedly state in the 80 - page document refer to by Henry Staunton in yesterday ' s Select Committee hearing ? in response to I during an urgent question on 29 January , the Minister say that Henry Staunton ' s sack be not due to a fall out , but that it be " about very serious governance issue relate to the person who head the board of the organisation , which be obviously confidential human resource issue . " — [ Official Report , 29 January 2024 ; Vol . 744 , c . 612 . ] will the Minister confirm whether he have sight of the confidential human resource report refer to in yesterday ' s Select Committee hearing ? if so , why be he selective in his update to the House ? finally , it be very important to make sure that we restore trust , by urgently bring forward legislation . I hope that , unlike yesterday ' s unseemly event , our focus can return to make sure that we exonerate the sub - postmaster and deliver the recompense that they rightly deserve . when the hon . Lady say that I be " selective " about what I say , be she accuse I of be economical with the truth ? if so , I would take exception to that . it would be absolutely wrong for anybody in this House to disclose information about an investigation that have not conclude and where the presumption of innocence must apply for the individual concern . if she think I should come to this House to talk about those kind of sensitive , confidential matter , she do not understand how the corporate world work . rise — I will not give way , as I be answer the hon . Lady ' s question . this be not a debate . I do find what happen yesterday unedifye , but that be about one person ; everybody else who give evidence yesterday be clear that there be no sense ever of try to slow down compensation . neither do I think the hon . Lady be right to say that postmaster be far away from get compensation ; it be quite the opposite . to imply that and so raise question about the compensation scheme could lead to people not come forward . we welcome the fact that 1 , 000 more people have come forward since the ITV series . People be close to compensation , not far away , and the action we be take , through the compensation advisory board , the overturning of conviction , the Horizon shortfall scheme , which be nearly complete , and the GLO scheme be all move on . if she want to end the , " he say , she say " , perhaps she should end it , because we want to move on and pay compensation . as for the figure of £ 1 billion , be the hon . Lady say it be serious if we have no cap on compensation ? I do not think that be serious at all ; of course we have no cap on compensation . the £ 1 billion be a maximum budget , but if that need to be increase , it should be . if she be say that we should not increase it if people deserve more , she should put that on the record . it would be an entirely irresponsible thing to do . every time I have deal with this matter over the Dispatch Box with shadow Ministers , it have be constructive and collaborative , and I resent the tone she have take in this case . let I say , in fairness to the Minister , that he have come here on more occasion than anybody else I have know . he have absolutely ensure that the House have be keep inform — he go without question on this . I commend the Minister , not only for the consistent and compassionate approach he have take to this matter , but for his attendance at yesterday ' s session . it last for five hour and he be there for the great part of it . he be right to say that much of what we hear yesterday be a real distraction from the key objective of the Government and the Committee of make sure there be speedy compensation for our postmaster . it be clear that the former chairman and possibly the chief executive exhibit limitation in their role and be perhaps unsuitable for the role to which they be appoint , so be there any broad lesson we might deduce on how we go about recruitment for publicly own organisation such as the Post Office ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his work on the Select Committee . he be a doughty champion in this area and many other relate to the Committee ' s work . there be some lesson we need to learn ; the Post Office certainly require the right kind of skill and the right kind of person to turn it around . that be clearly a work in progress and I do not think people will be confident that that be happen until it have actually happen . word be no long enough ; we need action , be it on the turnaround of the Post Office or on the compensation scheme . I call the Chairman of the Select Committee . I be grateful to the Minister for join we for most of the five hour of hearing yesterday , but he will know as well as I do that what we see yesterday be complete chaos at the top of the Post Office , when what we need be a clarity of purpose about pay redress fast and fairly . not a single witness yesterday say that they be satisfied with the speed of any one of the three process . in fact , the lawyer for the claimant say that it may now take one to two year in order to complete the payment of redress , and we hear evidence of offer be make that be , frankly , insultingly low . that be true across each of the three scheme . most worryingly , we hear that the Post Office chief executive have not have regularly meeting with the Secretary of State or receive a clear write instruction to accelerate every one of the three scheme ; there be no deadline and no target , and there be no incentive to get the redress scheme do and dust . that be not good enough . will the Minister again reflect , when he bring his Bill before the House , on the need to eliminate the Post Office from this process to the maximum possible extent and ensure that there be a legally binding set of timescale under which claim be give the information they need and process , with offer make and offer settle ? I say that , because we can not go on like this . I do think the chaos be cause by one individual . I sit through the whole session ; for the bit I be not in the room with the right hon . Gentleman , I be watch on television . it be right for people to be able to say that they be not satisfied with the speed of compensation . I have say that time and time again from this Dispatch Box , and we be keen to accelerate the process and make sure it be fast and fair . we be aware of the recommendation from the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) on an appeal mechanism for some of the scheme where people feel the compensation be too low . we be look and will continue to look at that . every compensation scheme I have deal with , such as the Royal Bank of Scotland global restructuring group scheme and the Lloyds - hbos scheme , have be too slow , because of some of the complexity involve . we hear some good suggestion yesterday about how we might remove some of that complexity , which I be very keen to do . we hear some positive remark from the individual concern , for example , from some of the solicitor , and from the Post Office on the fix - sum award — the £ 650 , 000 for the overturned conviction and the £ 75 , 000 for the GLO scheme . we hear how that be reduce the amount of disclosure that be require — that be one of the limit factor . this should mean that the timescale that some people put on the table of one to two year should be rapidly reduce , and I be very keen to build on that work . as the ceo confirm to the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) yesterday , I meet he every month , and we speak about the need to accelerate compensation every single time . we have target for when to pay the compensation by : August for GLO case , and for all case ideally by the end of the year . as we hear yesterday , 1 , 000 new claimant have come forward since the ITV series , which make it difficult to put deadline on payment . I be aware that the right hon . Gentleman want a legally bind target . I be happy to discuss that with he , but we have just remove one legally bind target because not everything within the process be within our gift . I know that my hon . friend have a passion to get this right , and to right the wrong of the past . do he agree that we must do all that we can to ensure that sub - postmaster who be victim of the awful Horizon scandal be exonerated , and compensate fully , fairly and with haste ? I thank my hon . friend for his work on this issue as one of my predecessor ; I know that he be as keen as I be to ensure that full and fair compensation be pay to all individual . as I say , there be no limit to the amount of compensation that we will set aside to ensure that people be compensate properly for this horrendous scandal . in the week that we hear that more than 250 postmaster whose life and reputation be damage by Post Office Ltd die before they could get justice , yesterday we find another layer of Post Office Ltd ' s organisational dysfunction . on 19 February , the Secretary of State inform the House of bully accusation against Mr Staunton , only for we to find out yesterday that those accusation relate to another individual entirely . could I first ask the Minister , for whom I have the great respect — not just for the manner in which he go about his business with regard to the Horizon scandal — whether the Secretary of State mislead the House by tell member that Mr Staunton be under wide investigation for bullying ? secondly , will the Minister now respond positively to request from the Scottish Government and the Northern Irish Executive to reconsider introduce legislation that could lead to a swift UK - wide exoneration for the postmaster affect ? to be clear , we terminate Mr Staunton ' s role as chair of the Post Office not because of bully accusation . there be an 80 - page report , which he refer to yesterday , and which I have not read . he freely admit in yesterday ' s evidence session that he be name in that report . to what extent , I do not — [ interruption . ] well , that be what Mr Staunton say ; he say that it be to a very minor extent . I do not know that , I do not think the hon . Gentleman know that , and I think we should wait for the investigation to conclude before we make a judgment on that . the point be not about the allegation itself ; the point be that , as Mr Staunton admit yesterday , he interfere with the investigation . that be unacceptable , and if we have not act in the way that we do , I think that the hon . Gentleman and other would be call we to account for why we do not act when somebody have try to suspend or interfere with an investigation into his own conduct . I be aware of the Scottish and northern irish Governments ' position on legislation . of course we will continue to discuss that with they . there be some separate devolve issue around the judicial system in Scotland and Northern Ireland . that be the reason we have do it differently . we be happy to continue our dialogue on it . from my time as a parliamentary private Secretary in the Department , I know the determination of the Minister and the Secretary of State to get compensation to these wrong postmaster as quickly as possible . in yesterday ' s Select Committee session , Mr Staunton speak about lobby for a pay rise for Mr Read , which I know must have be quite gall to many of the sub - postmaster . the Minister reportedly refuse to grant that pay rise . what sort of pay rise do Mr Staunton think would be a fair , equitable agreement at that time ? I think on two occasion Mr Staunton lobby for a pay increase for Mr Read . he seek to double the overall package of Mr Read on those occasion . yesterday ' s Committee meeting be bizarre in many way . it be five hour long and , as happen only rarely , the people in front of the inquiry have to swear on the Holy Bible . that be how bad it be . the recently dismiss former chairman reveal a number of thing that be quite alarming . first , he reveal that the current chief executive be under investigation . perhaps the Minister can explain why we be not aware of that . secondly , he reveal that the current chief executive have threaten to resign on more than four occasion , not because of the lack of progress on any financial redress for postmaster and postmistress , but because he say his wage be too low . the chief executive also say that he be proud that he have a hardship fund for worker in the Post Office . can the Minister clarify whether there have be an approach by anyone on behalf of the current chief executive for a pay rise , and what the response be ? first , may I correct the record ? in response to the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , I say that the fix sum award be £ 650 , 000 ; it be £ 600 , 000 . it would be wrong to disclose an investigation into somebody ' s conduct before that investigation have conclude . it would be extraordinary to do that in any work context , be it in the public or private sector . I be happy to have a conversation with the hon . member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) about the hardship fund . if he be talk about the Post Office pay salary to postmaster , most postmaster be self - employ , not pay a salary directly , and have a number of different stream of income into their business . these be business in their own right , of course , but there be a hardship fund for certain postmaster in certain situation . I echo the comment about the Minister and his assiduous work on this issue , both as a Back Bencher and now as the Minister . do he agree that perhaps it be necessary to look at how many people be work on the compensation scheme on the Post Office ' s side ? I have raise the matter with he before . a lot of it be expert work , but if anything can be do to build the resource , that would be helpful , particularly for my constituent , whom we have discuss before . on disciplinary and grievance procedure , be it not normal that they be private until the point when a decision be make ? on the last point , my right hon . and learn Friend be absolutely right ; he clearly understand these situation very well . they should of course be keep confidential , which be why it be highly unprofessional of Mr Staunton to say what he say yesterday . on my right hon . and learn Friend ' s first point — I can not remember what it be now . resource — get more lawyer in . we be absolutely committed to ensure that we have the resource available to settle compensation claim quickly . certainly , a file note that I take away from yesterday ' s session be about the number of individual look after compensation from Addleshaw Goddard ' s end , although it be turn around the offer increasingly quickly . response to full claim now happen within 40 day in 85 % of case . there have be an improvement . we be keen to ensure that every part of the process have the resource it need to pay the compensation fairly and quickly . surely what we see yesterday be a glimpse of senior management in the Post Office who be now completely dysfunctional . as such , it be difficult to see how anyone can have confidence in their administration of the various compensation scheme . would it not be a sensible first step to restore confidence in that most important national institution — the Post Office — to take all role for they out of the administration of the compensation scheme and appoint an independent commissioner ? nothing start to get well for the Post Office until the scheme be successfully deliver and wound up . I think what we actually hear and see be a dysfunctional former chair of the Post Office ; that be what we see . interestingly , to the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about compensation scheme , the former chair say at one point during his evidence that he have no concern about the speed of delivery of the HSS — which be extraordinary , because I have many concern about it . I hear loud and clear call from across the House about the role that the Post Office be play in compensation scheme . these be sensitive matter , because people in the Post Office be employ to manage and administer the compensation scheme . I hear the point make by the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) loud and clear . we be look at it , but I reassure he that all three scheme have independence in they : an independent panel in the HSS ; an independent panel and a reviewer , Sir Ross Cranston , on the GLO scheme ; and the independence on the overturned conviction in Sir Gary Hickinbottom . both latter people be retire High Court judge , which should give claimant and the right hon . Gentleman , I hope , some confidence that the scheme will operate properly . my hon . friend the Minister have refer to Mr Staunton , who it seem have serious character defect . how be he ever appoint in the first place , and who provide the character reference and oversaw that appointment process ? may we have an inquiry into that ? thankfully , not I . I have nothing against Mr Staunton personally . he have a strong track record as the chair of various large organisation , as he say yesterday . I think we would all agree that the Post Office be a specific organisation with specific challenge . yesterday ' s evidence from Ben Tidswell , the senior independent director , be interesting . he feel that Mr Staunton ' s behaviour change in November last year and become far more " erratic " — his word . I do not know the reason for that specifically , although Mr Tidswell suggest some yesterday . whatever the reason , Mr Staunton ' s recent conduct be not consistent with remain chair of the Post Office . that be why we decide to act . I thank the Minister for his work in this area . he have be assiduous in his attention to detail — I can not say the same of the Secretary of State . nevertheless , yesterday be unedifye , and we be sick to death of the " he say , she say " business — we be not interested , except that two witness yesterday take the oath and speak to the same issue : as to whether Mr Read have ever tender his resignation or threaten to . it be totally conflicting evidence from the two people ; they both can not be right , so I suggest that one might have be a little economical with the truth . from Dr Neil Hudgell , though , the message come loud and clear : these scheme be way too " over - engineer " and far too " bureaucratic " , and that have lead to the delay in get the money out of the door . I have to correct the Minister — only 20 % of the fund be out of the door as yet . we have to speed it up . finally , I ask he to take on board the word of the predecessor Select Committee , the Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee , in February 2022 , which say that the good way through this be to remove the Post Office from the system . now , it may be too late to do that , but my goodness , be not the Committee right to say that ? can we find way to relegate the role of the Post Office , because that be the only way we will get justice for postmaster ? ultimately , that be what this be about — get they compensate . I totally agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s final point , and a number of the point he make . it be fair to say that on the compensation scheme , we could use the old phrase , " if you be go there , you wouldn ' t start from here . " I think that Sir Wyn Williams have say that , but the good way now be to say , " when you ' re go through hell , keep go . " we have to improve the scheme we have get . the hon . Gentleman make an interesting point about the Post Office , and he will have hear what I say early . I think the fix - sum award do take the Post Office out of the scheme completely , because no disclosure be require for they . on tender resignation — again , I think it be extraordinary that a chair would disclose confidential and private conversation that he have have with the chief executive . I have to say for the record that Mr Read have never tender his resignation to I or to the Secretary of State . other would be well than I to comment on the nature of those conversation , but I do not think that it be right for Mr Staunton to comment at all . I assure the hon . Gentleman that the Secretary of State have give I 100 % support in everything I have do in try to address these matter . I accept what Neil Hudgell say — I speak to he afterwards , and we have speak before about the scheme be over - engineer — and he suggest some way to try to accelerate compensation . we be of course look at those to see what the good way be to ensure that they be not over - engineer , but deliver rapid and fair outcome as quickly as possible . my primary interest be in compensation payment be make expeditiously across the entire United Kingdom , and in Northern Ireland in particular , where I have be lobby directly by a number of the sub - postmaster who have be treat so vilely . after the statement of 10 January , I ask whether the Minister would ensure that no delay would be allow whatever , and he affirm from the Dispatch Box that that be exactly the Government ' s intention . will he reaffirm that no delay will be allow , irrespective of the devolution settlement in Northern Ireland ? no devolved Minister or devolved court be involve at that time . will he reaffirm that the payment will be make , and that our sub - postmaster will not have to wait a day long than anyone else ? I will be very pleased to ensure that that happen . I meet the Northern Ireland Justice Minister virtually a few day ago to discuss these matter . I know that the Northern Ireland Administration ' s preference be for UK - wide legislation ; we do not think that be the right approach , but we will continue to work with the Administration to ensure that they can deliver the right legislation or process to make sure that the compensation be pay . clearly , once conviction be overturn anywhere in the United Kingdom , people enter exactly the same compensation scheme — they can get rapid compensation through the fix - sum award of £ 600 , 000 , or go through the full assessment process . we be determined to make the process quick , easy and fair . I be happy to work with the hon . gentleman to ensure that that be the case . I thank the Minister for his work on the Horizon scandal , and for answer my letter concern a constituent . in that answer , he confirm that former post office clerk and those work for a franchise who lose money , job and reputation through the Horizon scandal be not eligible for compensation under the current scheme . will he look into way to include they in a compensation scheme ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and for represent her constituent so effectively . I be keen to have continue conversation with she . all the scheme that have be establish thus far require a contractual relationship between the Post Office and the individual , and I know that be not the case for her constituent . a number of member of this House have address the issue , and we will continue to look at it . whether we be talk about my constituent Roger , a former postmaster whose case certainly need review , constituent in community such as Clarkston and Neilston , who have experience the most recent post office closure in East Renfrewshire , or the brilliant postmaster operate locally , none of they deserve this mess . this be turn into a regrettable circus to all look in from the outside . what assurance can the Minister give I today that that will not be allow to divert or distract from a genuine focus on the swift possible resolution , and on deliver a sustainable future for the Post Office ? I thank the hon . Lady for make that point and for represent her constituent so well . yes , absolutely , we understand that this be distract , or could distract , from work to ensure not just that we make right the wrong of the past , but that the Post Office have a strong future , as she put it . I totally agree . we think that the Post Office do have a strong future . revenue stream have be affect by change in how and where people acquire certain thing or access certain service , but the banking framework — we encourage the Post Office to be more ambitious in its negotiation with the bank on the remuneration that flow from the framework to postmaster — and the parcel hub be an opportunity for the future . we believe that the Post Office have a strong brand and strong future . we be keen to support its effort to ensure that the future be bright for all postmaster . I declare my interest as a member of the Horizon advisory board . welcome back to the Minister . he should bring in his sleep bag — he be here that often . I be at the five - hour marathon yesterday , and I be totally unconvinced by Henry Staunton ' s accusation , and his allegation about delay compensation . like the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , I wonder why Mr Staunton be appoint in the first place — to any board , for that matter . however , to come to the point , Mr Staunton do raise the point that the chief executive be under investigation , follow an 80 - page report . I accept that the Minister can not talk about that individual — that would be wrong — but he know that the culture at the Post Office be rotten , and it be important that the cloud be lift quickly . when the Secretary of State come to the House on 19 February , do she and the Minister know that Nick Read be under investigation ? be it true that the former hr director who write that report have leave the Post Office with a settlement , and do that settlement include a non - disclosure agreement ? I be very happy to come to the Dispatch Box any time I be require to , or feel that there be a need to , which , as the right hon . Gentleman say , be quite often at the moment . I be aware of the investigation relate to Mr Read and Mr Staunton . that be not the reason why the Secretary of State decide to part company with the chair ; that be about interfere with the investigation . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the hr director . I do not know about those matter , but I be happy to look into they and come back to he . I be sure that the Minister will agree that everything we be see and hear about the Post Office inquiry be far undermine the confidence of those who be affect by the Horizon scandal . as the Minister say , 1 , 000 more people have come forward ; they have no more confidence than anyone else in the governance of the Post Office . one of they , a constituent of mine , have be with the Post Office for almost 20 year , and be about to be offer redundancy . she be ask to take over a sub - post office for two month to make up the 20 year . during those two month , she become embroil in the Horizon scandal . she be not charge , because her Post Office manager plead on her behalf , but she lose her redundancy , and she be now completely confused about where she stand , and have no faith in the governance to fix the problem . be the Minister prepare to meet I to discuss that case , so that I can assure my constituent that it be be deal with ? yes , of course I would be very happy to meet the hon . Lady and her constituent . give what the hon . Lady have say , the place for her constituent to go be the Horizon shortfall scheme , which will be happy to look at that particular situation . of the 2 , 417 people who apply to the original scheme , 100 % have have offer and 84 % have accept those offer , so she can be assure that there will be fairness . we be look to ensure that the scheme be fair and be see to be fair . the other scheme be also deliver outcome more quickly than they be . there be 106 claim in the group litigation order scheme ; 80 offer have be accept , and compensation for overturn conviction be a fix - sum award of £ 600 , 000 . the fact that 1 , 000 people have come forward for compensation since the ITV series indicate that people do have confidence that they will be compensate fairly , but I absolutely understand that we have work to do to ensure that people feel that way across the board . the Minister have be incredibly honest and forthright in all his answer , and we have every faith in he , give his conduct and all the information he have bring to the Chamber , for which I thank he . as locally elect representative , we be accountable to our electorate . how will the Minister ensure that those who be pay from Government fund be accountable in the same way ? what more can be do to hold those decision - maker to account ? as ever , I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution . on the point about Government fund , I guess that he be refer to executive in the Post Office . clearly , that be the Government ' s responsibility as the single shareholder . we have a representative on the board in Lorna Gratton from UKGI , in whom I have a great deal of confidence . I think it fair to say that my Department and its official have learn a lot from the process and from what have go on , and that be right . we should be clear that mistake have happen , and apologise for the way that they have contribute to the scandal . I be very keen to ensure that there be continued accountability . we have , at significant expense to the taxpayer , set up the public inquiry , which be call for by member across the House . it will take evidence in public , so that the public can see what be happen , and will conclude by the end of this year and report next year . we will then have a lot more answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s question , as well as accountability not just for Post Office executive in future , but for Post Office executive of previous year . that conclude proceeding on the urgent question . I thank the Minister for his now daily appearance , as well as the Opposition Front Bencher , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) . Ukraine two year ago , Putin think his tank would roll easily into Kyiv and Ukraine would fall within day . he do not expect Ukraine ' s brave resistance , he do not expect his military to let he down so badly , and he do not expect the west to stand so firmly in support of Ukraine , with unprecedented sanction and massive aid to help Ukraine to resist . today , Ukraine stand strong and united , and we in the international community stand just as firmly in our support . even now , Putin try to pretend he be win this illegal war , even though Ukraine have retake half the territory seize in 2022 and largely push the Black sea fleet out of Crimea ; even though he have fail in his attempt to stop Ukraine export grain ; and even though his action have unite Europe , convince Sweden and Finland to join NATO and the EU to begin accession talk with Ukraine . it speak volume about this neo - imperialist bully that he stubbornly continue , despite the cost to Ukraine and his own people . in recent month , Putin send around 50 , 000 young Russians to their death in order to take Avdiivka , a town whose pre - war population be just 35 , 000 . we must and will ensure that he fail , for this be the big test of our generation . Putin ' s brazen violation of the UN charter strike at the heart of the rule on which our security and prosperity depend , and our adversary be watch . today , we stand at a critical juncture . Putin should be in no doubt of where we stand , or of our resolve . that be why we announce on Thursday 22 February over 50 new sanction target those support his war effort . that include the arm manufacturer , electronic company and diamond and oil trader that be sustain Putin ' s illegal war . it bring the total number sanction under our Russia regime to 2 , 000 , include bank that account for more than 90 % of the russian banking sector , not to mention more than 130 oligarch , who together be worth around £ 147 billion at the time of the invasion . last month in Kyiv , the Prime Minister and President Zelensky sign a new agreement that build Ukraine ' s military capability , and announce a new wide - range partnership — an unbreakable alliance , to last 100 year or more . it include our new £ 2 . 5 billion military support package , of which at least £ 200 million will be spend on a major push to produce thousand of military drone for Ukraine , include surveillance , long - range strike and sea drone . Britain be the first country to sign a long - term bilateral security agreement with Ukraine , as we promise in Vilnius . France , Germany , Italy , Denmark and Canada have now follow suit . last week , we witness time and again that we and our ally share the same conviction — the same determination — that Ukraine will prevail . at the Munich security conference , the Foreign Secretary make the case for a major uplift in european defence production , so that Ukraine get all the firepower and equipment necessary to prevail . at the G20 Foreign Ministers meeting , it be clear that there be few illusion about what Russia be do . at the UN , Britain underline how dangerous Putin ' s action be for the entire world . to mark the second anniversary of Putin ' s barbaric invasion , G7 leader hold a joint call with President Zelensky , renew our pledge to make Russia pay . on Monday evening in Paris , the Foreign Secretary urge european partner to do more to show Putin that we will not let he win . all these effort be have a real impact : the European Union have agree a € 50 billion multi - year funding package , Germany have double its military aid , and in the come week , we expect several more of our partner to sign bilateral security agreement with Ukraine . we will keep up and step up the pressure , and there be more that we can do . that mean ensure that we use sanction to stop business fund Putin ' s war machine , and engage other country to do the same ; pursue all lawful route to use sanction russian asset across the G7 to support Ukraine , and work with our partner to achieve that aim ; and , along with those partner , give Ukraine more of the munition and equipment that will make the big difference . that be more ammunition at speed , more simple - to - use weapon system such as drone and Soviet - era kit , more support — include training on F - 16s — and more of the system that have the big strategic impact , such as storm Shadow long - range missile . through all this , we be send an unambiguous message of our endure support for Ukraine . that message be writ large in blue and yellow last Saturday when we project the word " Slava Ukraini " on to government building up and down the land and our embassy worldwide , tell Ukraine , her people and the world that the United Kingdom , our ally and our people be here for they for as long as it take . I can not end without acknowledge the terrible impact of Putin ' s despotism on ordinary Russians as well . More than 300 , 000 russian soldier have be kill or wound in Ukraine , many more than in the decade - long soviet occupation of Afghanistan , and the war be rob Russians of resource that should be spend on pension or teacher . Putin ' s Kremlin have systemically repress the freedom of its own people over the past two decade . we see that most recently and tragically with the death of Alexei Navalny early this month — a man who fight with incredible courage to expose corruption throughout his life , call for free and fair politic and hold the Kremlin to account . the british Government be call for a full and transparent investigation into the circumstance of his death , and the Prime Minister have emphasise that we hold the russian state accountable for its role in his death . we immediately announce sanction against six individual head up the penal colony where Mr Navalny die follow year of mistreatment at the hand of the russian state . Britain be the first nation to introduce sanction in response to Mr Navalny ' s death , and we be work with international partner to co - ordinate the next step . I end by reiterate the UK ' s call for Russia to release all those imprison on political ground , include the dual british - russian national Vladimir Kara - Murza , who be serve a 25 - year sentence . the Foreign Secretary will meet his wife and his mother on Friday to express our solidarity and support . as the Foreign Secretary state in New York , Putin try to portray this as a battle between Russia and the west , but that be the central lie of this war . our quarrel be not with the russian people ; our dispute be with those within the russian state who be promote their aggressive agenda at home and abroad to serve their own personal interest . Britain stand with all those who have fall victim to Putin ' s aggression and cruelty — in Ukraine , and in Russia . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement , but once again , the shadow Cabinet Minister for international development be update the House on one of the most important foreign policy issue of our time . I do not get a clear answer yesterday , so I will ask he again : when will the Foreign Secretary take question from member on both side of the House ? last week mark two year since the start of Putin ' s full - scale illegal invasion of Ukraine . the bomb - out city , the rape civilian , and the child kidnap to Russia show the barbarity of Putin ' s rogue regime . Ukraine ' s resilience in the face of hell be testament to the enormous courage of its people . we echo the Minister ' s statement that Ukraine ' s action to retake half the territory seize in 2022 — push back the Black sea fleet — and the unity show by Europe , have demonstrate the pretence of Putin ' s attempt to claim that Russia be win the war . but we can not be complacent ; the situation require that our support to Ukraine should remain strong . labour ' s message to Ukraine be simple : whoever be in government , Britain will support Ukraine until it prevail . we support the further and significant military and financial support that the Conservative Government have announce , as well as the further sanction . Britain be unite on Ukraine , but , as the official Opposition , we have the job of highlight where more can be do . we commend South Korea on send more shell to Ukraine than all of Europe combine , but the war must be a wake - up call to all of Europe : there be more that we , along with our ally , must do together . we welcome the french President bring world leader together this week . in that spirit , Labour have outline plan for a new UK - EU security pact to complement NATO tie and strengthen our whole continent . I ask the Minister what his Government be do to work more closely with the European Union on our collective security , and whether the Foreign Secretary would attend foreign affair council of the European Union if invite to do so . labour warmly welcome Sweden ' s accession to NATO , which strengthen our whole alliance , but what recent conversation have the Foreign Secretary have with his NATO counterpart regard a pathway for Ukraine ' s membership ? More sanction be welcome , but enforcement remain the weak link . last December , an Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation report show that there have be zero enforcement measure for post - February 2022 sanction breach in relation to Russia . can the Minister confirm whether that be still the case , and can he update the House on the effectiveness of the sanction be implement against the Lukashenko regime in Belarus ? one man , Vladimir Putin , hold ultimate responsibility for the death of Alexei Navalny . we welcome the sanction against six individual that the UK announce in the wake of Mr Navalny ' s death , but they be not enough . why will the Government not commit to review sanction on Russia , consider every individual on the full Navalny list ? why will they not back Labour ' s call to support a new international anti - corruption court , and why will they not back our whistleblow reward scheme to crack down on enabler ? follow European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen ' s positive statement today , and the passing of 250 day since Labour ' s motion to require the Government to bring forward legislation to ensure the seizure and repurposing of russian state asset , why will the Government not finally turn rhetoric on seizure into action ? finally , I welcome the Government ' s highlight Vladimir Kara - Murza ' s case ; tomorrow , I too will meet with his wife , Evgenia Kara - Murza . over the weekend , there be report that Members of Parliament be concern that the Government be not take the lead on effort to secure his release from russian prison . can the Minister reassure we by outline the strategy and the step that minister be now take , before it be too late ? I be very grateful to the right hon . Gentleman for the cross - party support that he have give to what I have say . he be quite right to ask pierce question , but the fact remain that the House be unite on this issue , mean that Britain speak with one voice and with great effectiveness . once again , the right hon . Gentleman chide I for not be the Foreign Secretary . I be not the shadow Cabinet Minister for development — his hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) occupy that position . he see the Foreign Secretary often ; I think he be about to see he again , and the Foreign Secretary be an ever - present presence at both end of the House . of course , he will be available to member of this House for question in the way that have be discuss . the right hon . Gentleman express very strong support for the further military provision we have supply and for the further sanction . he talk about the wake - up call for Europe , and I very much agree with he . he ask about our work with the European Union and other european country . he , like I , will have be delighted to see the € 50 billion that the EU have allocate over the next four year for non - military activity , and there will be further announcement , we believe , in respect of military support . he will also have see that , along with the £ 2 . 5 billion of military support announce by our Prime Minister , President Macron have announce a similar figure and Germany have very significantly increase the amount of military support it be provide for Ukraine . clearly , there be great co - ordination and a rise recognition across Europe and throughout NATO that this be a struggle in which all of we be involve . the right hon . Gentleman ask I about the effectiveness of sanction . some 2 , 000 people or entity have be sanction , include 90 % of the russian banking sector . in step up sanction , which be develop all the time , we will be introduce an ability to sanction ship . on the effectiveness of sanction , Russia would have have an additional $ 400 billion without the sanction that have be impose ; money to prosecute the war that it do not now have . last week , a turkish company , three chinese entity and two Belarus entity be sanction . although , as I be sure he would agree , we do not discuss the development of sanction across the House , I can assure he that this be prove to be very effective and be deny the russian war machine vital supply . I welcome the deputy Foreign Secretary ' s focus on the progress that Ukraine have make against overwhelming odd in the face of one of the big military in the world . I have just return from Ukraine with the hon . member for Glasgow South ( Stewart Malcolm McDonald ) , and while there , it be my honour to meet some of the soldier who be gravely injure last summer defend Avdiivka . they share story about how those in their unit who be still on the frontline and have just have to withdraw be leave bleed out for six to eight hour , sometimes more , because there be not enough ammunition to medevac those who have be hurt . what happen in Avdiivka should shame the international community , not Ukraine , because what it be do be incredible . globally , people seem to forget that this be not a Disney movie : the good guy do not just win ; it be down to we to make sure that they have the tool to fight . over the weekend , I put proposal to the Defence Secretary on where I believe we can obtain more ammunition . bitterly , it be 80 year since the UK last go to the US to petition it to help defend security in Europe . I urge the deputy Foreign Secretary to help I advise how the UK be battle , as we need to do , some of the pernicious narrative that be arise . first , in the US , people be forget the threat of Putin . we must remind they that the threat of Putin be what they be ultimately fight against . secondly , in Europe , we see a pernicious narrative about how the Baltics and Nordics will defend themselves in two or three year ' time when Russia rebuild itself . that can not be the focus . we have to end Putin now , and we have to stop the ability to invade Ukraine now . what be my right hon . friend do to fight these narrative ? I thank the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee very much for her perceptive and wise comment . to take she last point first , she be of course absolutely right that we be hope Congress will follow the lead by pass the relevant Bills swiftly , follow its return from recess . United States ' s support be absolutely vital for Ukraine ' s success , as she so rightly say . I be very glad that she have be able to see for herself what be happen . sometimes , we understate the extent to which Putin be be beat back . although the russian advance into Avdiivka do take place , those 2 km cost between 40 , 000 and 50 , 000 russian death . one fifth of the Black sea fleet have be destroy , Crimea be no long safe for the russian military to operate in and grain supply be move across the Black sea . revenue for Ukraine be at pre - conflict level , and unlike in year one , this winter the light stay on and the bombing by Russia be unable to achieve the same effect as they achieve before . this war be not affordable for Russia : 40 % of Government spending be now spend on the war , or 6 % of gdp . this be all in pursuit of the bad atrocity — unmatched — that we have see in Europe over the last 80 year . it be important to point out that Britain have supply not only £ 2 . 5 billion of military mat é riel , announce by the Prime Minister , to be supply this year , but 300 , 000 artillery shell . that be a measure of our determination to ensure that Ukraine have everything we can offer it . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Minister for prior sight of his statement . I want to put on the record , once again , our steadfast and unyielde support for the people of Ukraine in defend themselves , their home and their country against Putin ' s illegal and aggressive war . I share the concern express by the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , that Putin ' s plan appear to be to keep the war go until Ukraine ' s democratic ally lose interest and somehow let support slip away . that simply can not be allow to happen . I have speak to colleague who have just return from Kyiv — they be attend event to mark the second anniversary of the war — and they report that , at this critical time , Ukraine need our help now every bit as much as it do on the day Putin attack . first and foremost , we must guard against complacency . we can not let the ukrainian people down simply because we lose interest , because if Ukraine lose , we all lose . I very much welcome the UK Government ' s financial and military support package and the new € 50 billion multi - year funding package from the European Union , as well as the fact that Germany have commit to double its military aid . I share the Minister ' s hope that many of Ukraine ' s ally will now follow that lead , most notably the United States . its prevarication have surely only embolden Ukraine ' s enemy and depress the ukrainian people far . however , there be still so much we can do . I take the Minister ' s point about the sanction regime , but what about use frozen russian asset to assist Putin ' s war victim , most notably the £ 2 billion sit in a London bank two year on from the sale of Chelsea football club ? as we look ahead , have the fcdo ' s atrocity prevention monitoring body be keep track of breach of international law and war crime be commit by Russia in Ukraine ? with a marked increase in the targeting of civilian in Kyiv , Odesa , Kharkiv and Lviv , be the UK Government prepare a case for the International Criminal Court against Russia for the deliberate targeting and bombardment of civilian in Ukraine ? I want to thank the hon . gentleman for his supportive comment . as I say to the shadow Foreign Secretary , the fact that the House speak with one voice on this matter give Britain much great authority in the council of the world . the hon . Gentleman warn against complacency , and I hope he will agree that Britain have show no sign of backslide on this . no country have do more than the UK . we be the first to supply tank and long - range missile , we be assist in scour the world for soviet legacy stock , and Britain recently announce £ 200 million for drone to be make both in the UK and in Ukraine . I can tell he that the european peace facility , which will provide funding for Ukraine ' s armed force , be progress . he will also know that Britain and the Nordics together have set up the international fund for Ukraine , which have now raise more than £ 1 billion . so I hope I can satisfy he that there be no complacency whatsoever . the hon . Gentleman ask about the Chelsea fund . I can tell he that there be immense frustration that the Chelsea fund be not out and operate at this time . we be do everything we can , within significant and irritate level of difficulty , to get it deploy . we will do that as fast as we possibly can . he end his comment on war crime . the Government , along with our ally , be do everything we can to ensure that there be no question of Putin not be hold to account when this dreadful conflict be over . may I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement ? in an interview this week , Ukraine ' s national security adviser warn that the Kremlin be well equip than ever to disrupt election use artificial intelligence . can the House get an update on the UK ' s readiness to deal with this kind of assault on our democracy ? my right hon . friend make a very good point . he be right to flag up the deep concern that exist about that issue . it be not for I to answer his specific point about the step the Government be take to protect we from that , but certainly there be other Ministers more directly associate with it who will be able to give he a full update . notwithstanding the Minister ' s upbeat tone , in his response to the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) , he acknowledge that vital american support be still be hold up in Congress because of trump - support Republicans . do he agree that self - preen british politician who fawn at Trump do nothing but give succour to Putin and his murderous regime ? we be do everything we can to ensure that we play our part in persuade our many friend in Congress to support this measure . the right hon . Gentleman will have see what the Foreign Secretary do when he be there , and he may well have see the powerful article that be widely available in the United States . I hope he will conclude from that that we be do everything we can to pursue the result that he and I both want . my right hon . friend will be aware that estimate for the cost of restoration and rebuilding of Ukraine be now reach $ 1 trillion . I warmly welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s suggestion that we start use frozen russian asset of up to $ 350 billion for that purpose now . can my right hon . friend say what progress be be make to achieve that ? I hope that in due course we will have more to say on the specific provision my right hon . friend ask about . he will recall the Ukraine reconstruction conference that take place in London last year , where we announce a number of specific measure to lay the foundation for Ukraine ' s long - term future . I hope very much that the £ 250 million of new capital that be announce then , along with the £ 500 million UK loan guarantee via the World Bank , be see as a down payment on that effort . in respect of the use of wide funding , he may be sure that his word be be hear . may I back the comment of the right hon . member for Exeter ( Mr Bradshaw ) ? you can back Trump or you can back Ukraine ; you can not do both . no Member of this House should try to ride two horse at once on this conflict . I be probably one of the few member of Parliament who have be to Avdiivka , Kramatorsk and Slovyansk , go back over six year . that long line of blood in the loss of Avdiivka two week ago can be draw back to two thing : first , weapon be hold up vis - à - vis what be go on in Washington in Congress ; and secondly — this be another frustration that Ukrainians tell I about this weekend when I be there with the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee — the slow yes they get from Europe . when Europe and the west decide to provide certain type of capability , it be a slow yes to provide it , and then even slow again to get it into Ukraine to be use . that be what will see town such as Kramatorsk go next . there be rightly a determination to win , but there be an anxiety in that country that I have not experience in all the time I have be go for six or seven year . what be the Minister ' s plan , not just to keep do more of what the Government have be do on weapon , which I commend wholeheartedly , but to turn the slow yes into a fast yes , so that Ukraine can achieve the victory it need ? in respect of the first part of what the hon . Gentleman say , he underline the point that I have repeatedly make today about the importance of the american contribution get through Congress and arrive in material term at the front as swiftly as possible . on his second point , we be do everything we possibly can . the Foreign Secretary and Prime Minister have clearly be in the lead in the support that Europe be give to Ukraine . we be seek to persuade in every way all our friend and ally to do the same . I submit to he that in recent month there have be a welcome increase in that support from our european ally , and I hope he will share my pride that the United Kingdom be right at the forefront of those press for more and well in the future . forgive I , Mr Deputy Speaker , if I flee the Chamber for a 2 o ' clock meeting of the Liaison Committee , which I must attend immediately after this question . may I point out to my right hon . friend the Minister that it be notable how swiftly no . 10 play down President Macron ' s suggestion that french or NATO troop might be directly deploy to the conflict in Ukraine ? can that be use to demonstrate how vacillation in Washington will lead to escalation in Europe ? could the european member of NATO perhaps explore some kind of lend - lease arrangement with the United States , as we have in the 1939 to 1940 period ? first , may I wish my hon . friend every success in his outing at the Liaison Committee this afternoon ? he be right that we need to stretch every sinew to ensure we give as much support as we can in the way he suggest , but I must re - echo the word of the NATO Secretary - General , Jens Stoltenberg , when he say yesterday that there be no plan for NATO combat troop to be on the ground in Ukraine . on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , I add to the consensus that Parliament have express so far this afternoon in support this statement and the Government ' s position on Ukraine . Sky News report last week that UK - export equipment may be wind up in Russia , such as drone equipment that have be export to Kyrgyzstan , Uzbekistan and Armenia . export of heavy machinery to Kyrgyzstan have grow by 1 , 100 % in the past year . what more will the Government do to keep dual - use good from end up in the occupy oblast of Ukraine , give that end - user declaration be plainly not sufficient ? first , I thank the hon . and gallant Gentleman for his support . as I have say , it greatly strengthen the British Government ' s position that there be that support across the House . the point he make underline the importance of move sanction along all the time to take account of thing we discover that be happen , such as clever way of breach sanction and way of close down loophole . that be very much what we be do . I mention early that we be seek to introduce power to sanction individual ship . we know that company be involve in circumvent western sanction . we take step all the time to close down those loophole , and we will continue to do so . on those who be circumvent sanction , perhaps through third country in central Asia or elsewhere , do the Minister of State believe that the current penalty for breach sanction be sufficient ? if not , when might the Government bring forward new legislation or take action to increase those penalty ? will the Government make public those who breach sanction and british company that try to avoid these sanction , so that they be show to have do what they have do , so as to send a signal to other people who might be tempt to do the same thing ? finally , on Vladimir Kara - Murza , I thank the Government for take more action than they perhaps previously have . I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary and those on other Benches for the cross - party support . there have be talk of a potential prisoner exchange between the United States Government and the russian Government . Vladimir Kara - Murza be a joint british and russian national , but he be live , and his family still live , in Washington DC . he work there . I urge the Minister — he do not have to make public comment now — to explore the principle of work with the Americans to ensure that , should there be any prisoner swap , Vladimir be part of that exchange . I thank my right hon . friend for his comment about Vladimir Kara - Murza . he will know that we have sanction 11 individual , include two individual involve in Mr Kara - Murza ' s early poisoning . we do not engage in prisoner exchange because do so would put a target on the back of so many british citizen . however , he may rest assure that we be explore all possible way of get Mr Kara - Murza out . on my right hon . friend ' s comment about sanction , of course , sanction be design to close down support for Putin ' s illegal war machine . whenever we can , we do prosecute people who break our law , but as I have mention to right hon . and hon . member , we be seek all the time to ensure that the sanction regime be as effective and all - engross as it can possibly be . may I , from the Democratic Unionist party Benches , thank the Government for their work in send military aid , financial aid , and moral and political support to Ukraine , as well as the effort to try to keep some of our reluctant ally supply the good and military equipment they have promise ? the Minister have give an upbeat version of the story in Ukraine at the moment , but the fact be that retreat have be force on Ukrainians because of the weight of russian military might . what step be he take , first , to stop those who be inadvertently break sanction , which be help the russian military , secondly , to release fund which freeze at present but could be use and , thirdly , to encourage other european country to give the military aid they have promise but have not yet be deliver ? I thank the right hon . Member and his hon . friend for their support of the Government ' s position . he describe my summary of the situation as upbeat . I hope he will accept that it be also candid . I be try to paint for the House a picture of what be happen on the ground and the step that the House rightly expect the Government to take to forward the endeavour that have bring the House together so comprehensively . on the development of sanction , as I have say , they be become increasingly effective and sophisticated as they bear down on loophole or way of get round they . that have deny the russian war machine some $ 400 billion , which be something like four year of run cost for this war . I hope the right hon . Member will see that that be the result of the painstaking work that we , along with our ally , be undertake to make the sanction regime as successful and effective as possible . give the vital role of international support for Ukraine , it be good over the weekend to be part of a four - party delegation to Kyiv , show the House ' s united support for the war effort . it be rightly describe not as a war between Ukraine and Russia but as a war between Putin and democracy . we all know that if Putin win , Europe will again go down the dark path we go down nine decade ago . I welcome the statement . on support , I want to focus on drone and how we have see they almost transform what happen on the battlefield . what particular discussion be be have about enable increase production of drone to be use offensively against russian force and about technical countermeasure to protect force that be find themselves under constant attack ? I thank my hon . friend very much for his remark . he will know that my hon . friend the Minister for Defence Procurement , who be in his place , launch the drone strategy last Thursday . I hope he agree that it be highly effective and just what be require give the importance and effectiveness of drone and drone technology . I also thank he for be part of the important four - party delegation , about which I have hear , and for the eloquent way in which he set out why the position and the action we be take , in what be an existential challenge to our generation , be so important . Sky News recently report on sanction evasion and thing be move via Kyrgyzstan , Armenia and Uzbekistan to support Putin ' s war machine , which I suggest be facilitate more often than not by professional enabler right here in the UK through the use of shell company , limited liability partnership and scottish limited partnership . I have be bang on about that for year . the loophole evidently still exist and be still be abuse , and they come from here . what conversation have the Minister have with Companies House and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to close those loophole , shut down those company and go after the people and the professional enabler who sit behind the sanction - evade mechanism be carry out here ? save the Children estimate that 20 , 000 child have be forcibly remove from their parent in Ukraine and send to Russia . what diplomatic effort be the Government make to reunite those family ? on the hon . Lady ' s second point , it be absolutely appalling that large number of child have be take in that way . we be in frequent discussion with the International Red Cross to try to ensure that all possible progress be make in respect of their return . in term of the example give of the technical way in which sanction can be evade , the hon . Lady ask I whether conversation be go on about close down those loophole . they certainly be , and I think we will see that at each turn of the ratchet we get more effective in close down loophole and stop people evade the sanction and the will of the House , which be so important in deprive the Putin war machine of the fuel it need . my right hon . friend rightly highlight the strengthening of NATO , with Finland and Sweden choosing to join since this illegal invasion be launch by Putin . look ahead to July ' s NATO summit in Washington , will the Government intensify work so that it result in a strong alliance and more support for Ukraine ? any other outcome only weaken our collective security . my hon . friend be absolutely right , and we will do everything we possibly can . I end by say that the key step we will take will be to strengthen Ukraine in its fight , to ensure that Ukraine win the war if Putin prolong it and to lay the foundation for Ukraine ' s long - term future . recently , we have see British International Investment — the Government ' s development finance institution — and the International Financial Corporation from the World Bank join together to facilitate trade finance . we see the $ 500 million UK loan guarantee via the World Bank . we be determined not only to prosecute in every way we can support for Ukraine in this existential struggle , but to look to the future and lie these foundation for Ukraine in the long term . I thank the Minister for his statement and for respond to question . Slava Ukraini . Defence Acquisition Reform with your permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on our plan for reform of the Ministry of Defence ' s acquisition system . Nimrod , Snatch Land Rovers , Ajax , Crowsnest and Morpheus — the narrative of our acquisition system have long be dog by major programme that be variously over - complex , over - budget and over - time . of course , military procurement be inherently complex , and external factor — supply - chain disruption in particular — have cause delay across the board that be likely to continue hit programme for the time be . it be also true that our system have excel at procure vast quantity of ordnance into Ukraine . we have not stand still . we have be identify and address systemic issue that impact on delivery , we have be drive pace and agility through streamlined process and increase the capability and capacity of our senior responsible owner , and , over the last six year , Defence Equipment and Support have come a long way in its internal reform effort . none the less , the long - stand weakness of defence acquisition be well know . they include a tendency for exquisite procurement — potentially too bespoke to export , leave industrial capacity vulnerable — and , as Sheldon ' s ajax report assess , personnel wary of speak up as problem emerge . in my view , the most significant issue be a model of delegate authority implement after Lord Levene ' s 2011 report , which be suppose to drive financial responsibility but instead make prioritisation hard to achieve in practice . with budget under strain from inflation , the result be inevitable — what we call " over - programming " where , in the absence of effective prioritisation , too many project be chase a finite amount of funding . inadvertently , that drive competition between the three single service , each vie to get their programme on contract , know that funding be oversubscribed . such over - programming can only be deal with in one way : delay , shift programme to the right to make the book balance . none of those problem compare with the most compelling reason for reform . in a world where our adversary be threaten to out - compete we in capability term , we have no choice but to reform acquisition , or we will see our military competitiveness diminish . Ukraine have show that today ' s battlespace be highly contest , and integrated operation be essential . in 2021 we announce the integrate operating concept , recognise the military need for an integrated concept of operation but maintain a delegate procurement system . today , I announce our new integrate procurement model , in a world where multi - domain communication be critical and data integration be paramount . at the same time , our kit must be secure , with key element make in the UK , and we must prioritise procure enabler alongside the shiny new platform that can not work without they . what do that mean in practice ? there will be five key feature of our new approach . first , it will be join up , with procurement anchor in pan - defence affordability rather than ad hoc silos that be vulnerable to over - programming . a key example will be our pende munition strategy — a top priority give our need to replenish weapon stock to war fighting level . pan - defence prioritisation of munition procurement will be drive not only by the hard reality of the great threat we face , but by the scale of demand signal require for always - on production — the optimal outcome for both military and industry . secondly , we will have new check and balance to challenge assumption at the outset of programme . specifically , our new integration design authority , base within strategic command , will be empower to ensure that our new approach be adopt in practice . if requirement lack a plan for datum integration or accompany enabler , the proposal will be send back . the authority will also be able to monitor programme where opportunity may arise , such as to well harness Al or novel technology . meanwhile , in the MOD ' s largely civilian sphere , a defence - wide portfolio approach will bring together all the expertise at our disposal to enable properly inform choice and decision on priority . the aim will be to provide a credible second opinion for Ministers to weigh alongside the military ' s propose requirement . in particular , there will be a far strong role for our brilliant scientist at the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory to focus on technological viability . expert will be task with market analysis and prioritise advice on industrial option , ensure that we make the well inform decision on whether to go for off the shelf , sovereign manufacture or somewhere in between . to avoid new oversight lead simply to more red tape , the reform take place hand in hand with defence design , aim at streamline our internal process . the third key feature be prioritise exportability , which will now be consider in - depth from the very outset of programme , to maximise the potential market for a give capability and , therefore , drive british industrial resilience . that be why one of the key expert voice will be our export specialist . at the moment , their primary focus be on export campaign , largely for mature product . however , I want that expertise to be embed within the MOD ' s acquisition process from the beginning , give we robust datum to quantify the risk that bespoke requirement might create a delta between our need and international demand . above all , that mean that our international export campaign can commence at a far early point in the product life cycle . the fourth feature of our new approach be to empower industrial innovation . we have already start our radical new venture of engage industry at secret , to give the strong possible understanding of our future requirement . my aim be to embed this approach throughout procurement , drive the deep possible relationship with industry , to enable entrepreneurial innovation to flourish and our supply chain to become more resilient . a more holistic supplier management approach will complement that by enable the Department to speak with a clear voice regard priority once on contract . fifthly , we will pursue spiral development by default — seek 60 % to 80 % of the possible , rather than strive for perfection . for such spiral programme we will abolish initial operating capability and full operating capability . instead of IOC or FOC , there will be MDC — the minimum deployable capability . there will have to be exception , but we have set new default time target for programme : three year for digital and five for platform . this be all about pace , but to achieve pace we need the right people : capable senior responsible owner , operate in an environment of psychological safety . as such , and give the emphasis on our people and psychological safety , I be pleased to report that we believe we have now implement all 24 recommendation of the Sheldon review . finally , how will this systematic change be implement ? I say to the Defence Committee that our plan be to launch our new model in the next financial year . from the second week of April , the integration design authority will formally deliver its new oversight function in support of the integrate procurement model . for major new programme start after that date , newly form expert advice will be make available to Ministers , ensure that we thrash out all the hard issue at the beginning of a major procurement , lock down the key policy decision so that our sro and commercial function can deliver at pace from then . for contractual reason , exist programme will continue under their current procurement mode , but on 8 April we will publish our new spiral development playbook so that exist programme that can adopt spiral feature will be empower to do so . on exportability , yesterday I publish the next stage of our new medium helicopter competition , which include a strong weighting for export to ensure that the high - quality rotary work that it will support in the UK be sustainable in the long term . such an approach to weight exportability , where appropriate , will become the default from 8 April . from that date , our three and five - year target will apply to new programme , include top priority pende procurement , such as the mobile fire platform . Ukraine have show how close combat artillery remain critical to warfighting . we will now accelerate that crucial acquisition , exemplify our new approach whereby we will order critical enabler in parallel to the platform itself , particularly ammunition . Ukraine have also show the importance of drone . uncrewed system will form the first overall category of pipe cleaner for the integrate procurement model from end to end . alongside this statement , I be today publish a short guidance note explain the nut and bolt of our new acquisition approach . copy will be place in the Library , and will be available in the Vote Office after I have sit down . the current environment in which we find ourselves — war in Europe — have make it impossible to ignore the urgent need for change . I commend this statement to the House . let I begin by thank the Minister for his statement and for early sight of it . defence procurement matter . it provide the vital kit that our force need to fight , as well as support hundred of thousand of UK job . we need to get this right as a nation , both for our national security and for economic growth . however , defence procurement be a mess . it need deep and major reform . the Public Accounts Committee describe it as " broken and repeatedly waste taxpayer ' money . " it have be a mess for the last 14 year . since 2010 , the Conservatives have waste £ 15 billion of taxpayer ' money through mismanagement of defence procurement programme ; £ 5 billion have be waste in this Parliament alone . with 46 of 52 major project not on time or on budget , this Government be fail british force and british taxpayer . time and again , this Government have be criticise for poor performance on defence procurement . there have be 17 National Audit Office report on procurement in the MOD since 2019 , four report by the Defence Committee and eight report by the Public Accounts Committee . they have all be critical — some highly critical — of this Government . it be right that the Minister propose some change — we welcome that . he mention Ajax ; can he explain how his proposal would have stop the disaster of the ajax procurement ? that be suppose to see vehicle in service in 2017 , but now they will not be on operational deployment until 2026 . More than £ 4 billion have be spend , but just 44 vehicle have be deliver to date . that be 70 % of the budget spend for 7 % of the vehicle order . that can not be describe as good value for money . the MOD ' s Command Paper refresh , which set out the policy for acquisition reform , do not even tackle waste or value for money , so how would the Minister ' s propose change stop what happen to the E - 7 Wedgetail procurement ? that programme , vital to enable the UK to meet our NATO commitment , be cut from five plane to three by a ministerial decision to save money , but the change mean that the RAF get only 60 % of the capability it want while pay 90 % of the original price . the Minister mention Morpheus . how would his proposal stop cost overrun , such as those that occur in the Morpheus communication system procurement ? that £ 395 million contract , award in 2017 , be cancel just before Christmas have deliver nothing at a cost of £ 690 million . it leave our force in the field have to use the age Bowman system for another decade . as the Minister say in his statement , he have just announce the invitation to negotiate on the new medium helicopter . it have take he since September 2022 , when that announcement be first expect , and three subsequent delay to get the announcement finally make . why have it take so long and how will his integrated procurement model prevent delay after delay to expect invitation to negotiate ? he expect the contract to be sign in 2025 . do it really take three year to invite negotiation and write contract specification ? will his new integrate procurement model speed that up , or will it slow thing down at the front end ? how do the Minister ' s announcement today tackle the waste , poor value for money and delay that appear endemic in the current MOD procurement system ? he say the new integrate procurement model will be implement this year in respect of new procurement , but when do he actually expect to see well value and fast , less wasteful procurement ? he talk about procurement anchor in pan - defence affordability , but his 10 - year equipment plan be already £ 17 billion over budget . what adjustment will be make on that ? the long - stand failure on procurement in the MOD matter in an increasingly dangerous world . they send a message , just as over the past 14 year the Government ' s hollow out of our armed force , create a recruitment crisis and shrink the Army to its small size since the napoleonic era , send signal to our adversary . labour believe that defence procurement can strengthen UK sovereignty , security and economic growth . defence procurement reform will be a top priority for a Labour Government to ensure that our troop have the kit they need to fight and to fulfil our NATO obligation . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for her comment . some issue be above party politic and play politic , especially when we look at the threat we face and our need for more competitive military procurement , but she be aware , for all she say , that we have see a one - year reduction in procurement time from December 2020 to December 2022 . there have be extraordinary effort in DE & S in particular to get equipment into Ukraine . we should never understate the way we have gift our own stock and scour the world to find an enormous amount of munition , not least 300 , 000 artillery shell . that be very positive procurement and in the hour of need as far as Ukraine be concern . the right hon . Lady ask a perfectly fair question . obviously , we can not say how any of the measure would have work in the past , but let I take one of her hypothetical question : how would ajax — the key example , give the Sheldon report — have be help ? I can only speculate , but the emphasis on exportability , for example , will be robust and from the start of programme . that apply more pressure where requirement be overly exquisite , because it will be balance out by international demand . the reason we want to promote exportability be ultimately to strengthen the resilience of our industrial base . our market be not big enough . if we have that check in place , it will reduce the tendency towards the exquisite . secondly , we will have a new set - up in term of the expert advice we receive at the beginning — the second opinion , as I call it — in particular from scientist at the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory , export expert at the Department for Business and Trade , and our own civil servant on finance and so on . we will have very clear advice , which will look at the technical issue around potential platform . at the moment , to be frank — I appreciate this be only possible to say from internal knowledge — we do not get that level of balance and challenge against the primary requirement come forward from the frontline command . the right hon . Lady ask how the new model would apply to the new medium helicopter and whether it would add time at the beginning . I can not comment on the specific of NMH , because it be commercially sensitive , but talk in generality , I would trade more time at the beginning , thrash out the big issue , work out and lock down the policy on , for example , industrial production , so that those issue do not find themselves be reopen later . of course , I be talk generically and not about specific programme , but if such thing be not lock down , there be a real habit of they come back later and create the big delay , put the programme in question . so , that be crucial . finally , the right hon . Lady ask about the affordability issue in the equipment plan , which I think be the most important part . I speak about the munition strategy . we could simply ask the single service to come forward with their priority for new munition , but the good way be to look robustly at the threat we face . that be the most important issue : to work back from that and prioritise at a pan - defence level the most urgent requirement for new munition . I think many people would think that that be common sense , but it have not necessarily be how the system have work . let I finish by say that perhaps the most positive experience I have have as the Minister for Defence Procurement be visit one of our small and medium - sized enterprise , which be bring forward a drone we be use in Ukraine . it be receive datum from the frontline and , base on that datum , spirally develop the platform within day to go back into service so it be competitive against the threat it be face . I want to create a constant loop between industry and the MOD , where we be share datum and frontline knowledge , so that we have a far more rapid period of technological innovation . the equipment plan , which be very static over 10 year , will look like an old fashioned way of do thing . the priority be to get technology into the hand of the military . that will increasingly be on the software basis and that be how we strengthen our armed force overall . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . I congratulate the Minister on the statement , which look to the future . there be a lot in it to commend . in particular , it be absolutely right to focus on data collection and make certain we be ai - ready . I be delighted about dstl ' s enhance role , which be one of the learning from Ajax , and I be pleased that all the recommendation of the Sheldon report be be take forward . on close industrial work at secret and exportability , that be entirely consistent with the defence security industrial strategy . that be absolutely welcome and a very positive sign . above all , I be delighted with the emphasis on spiral development and the new concept of the MDC . we all know the benefit of that : get something that be right and appropriate on to the frontline where it can be spirally develop be good for industry — it see the drumbeat of order — and good for the service , which do not need to think they be go to get everything in one bite . it be all positive . the only thing I would ask be that we should not forget the basic . the Minister refer to this in his statement , but sro who have enough bandwidth , support , and time and length on a project be absolutely critical , as be a culture in which they can experiment , and if something ain ' t work , they should be able to pull stump . that should not be a source of shame , but an inevitable consequence of be forward - lean , modern and experimental . they should say , " this isn ' t work ; reinvest the cash elsewhere . " that should be commend when sro come to the Minister with that kind of circumstance . I be very grateful to the Chairman of the Select Committee ; he be absolutely right . let I take those two point . on the importance of SROs , the big issue we face , ironically , for all the talk about technology , be people — that be across the economy in many way and across the public sector . yes , we want to empower SROs . there be some brilliant sro in the Department and it have be a pleasure to work with they . I stress that I think we be now at the point where 90 % of SROs spend at least 50 % of their time solely on one project . that be very positive . on my right hon . friend ' s point about cultural change , let I be frank . we can publish all the strategy we want , but if they be not deliver and do not change the culture , they will not have the effect on output that we want . let I return to my drone example . my right hon . Friend speak about the need to learn from failure , which be how many of the great entrepreneur in the world have succeed . on the day of my visit to the SME that be develop a highly effective drone to be use on the frontline , the people there have receive bad news , but crucially , they take that bad news , they spiral the platform , they learn from it , and they make sure that when it go out again it be competitive . that be the key to the system . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement , and for his honesty in detail the complexity and difficulty involve in defence procurement . I wish he every success with the proposal that he have outline . back in December , a National Audit Office report state that the MOD face a £ 16 . 9 billion black hole in equipment funding . I do not hear any mention in the statement of how that would be address , and I fear that it may not be cover in the Budget , so perhaps the Minister could enlighten I . will he also tell I whether he can guarantee that we will able to meet the requirement for essential contribution to both NATO and Ukraine during this time of conflict ? also miss from the statement be any detail of the post - Brexit defence sector labour shortage — how do the Government plan to address those shortage in order to support the sector ? — and any reference to parliamentary scrutiny , especially with regard to the nuclear programme . what assurance can the Minister give that the programme will be scrutinise by the Defence Committee and by Parliament ? also , give that we be work with ally to support Ukraine , which I welcome , do we not now need a mechanism such as a comprehensive defence security treaty with the European Union to further that ? there be a considerable emphasis on prioritise exportability . do the Government acknowledge that arm export and procurement programme with the state of Israel could make we complicit in war crime ? that be a concern for many member of the public , and I would be grateful for the Minister ' s comment on it . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for the broad thrust of his comment . let I deal with they in reverse order , begin with his point about arm export . as he know , we have strong and robust rule , and we do of course follow they . we keep all our exist export rule and priority under review . he mention nuclear parliamentary scrutiny . I respond to two successive Adjournment debate on nuclear matter that have be initiate by scottish colleague . I also appear before the Defence Committee recently , when I speak as openly as I could about the highly sensitive issue of the recent certification of our nuclear submarine , HMS Vanguard . the hon . Gentleman mention the lack of a labour supply from the EU . let I gently say to he that when I speak to defence company , I see a real willingness to invest in apprenticeship so that we can grow our own UK workforce , and I think that that be what we all want to see . on the equipment plan , the hon . Gentleman make the same point as the right hon . member for Garston and Halewood ( Maria Eagle ) . the equipment plan be a moment in time . it be a huge programme over 10 year , and only a minority of it — perhaps 25 % or 30 % — be actually on contract . what that be show be , effectively , the aspiration for programme in the future . there will be other programme , not on contract , that we will not pull out of and that we will be expect to be part of , but there be room for flexibility . for I , the purpose of this acquisition reform be to inform that process on the basis of what matter most of all : datum from the frontline and war gaming datum — on what be happen in Ukraine and on our own war gaming — inform spiral and technological development . that be the way forward , and I think it will be a far more flexible process than take very rigid view . I remind the House of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I commend my hon . friend for the remarkable pace at which he have get to grip with the challenge of acquisition in defence . he have not be in post for very long , but he have bring intellectual rigour to those challenge , which some of we have be try to do for a while . I also endorse everything that be say by the Chair of the Select Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Horsham ( Sir Jeremy Quin ) , who be an expert on these issue . I be particularly pleased that he have seek to bring the learning from the current conflict in Ukraine back into our own system here in the UK . other country be learn how to adapt their acquisition system rapidly , and we need to do the same . I completely endorse the integrate procurement model . its precursor be in the complex weapon programme , which have be run for more than 10 year . I think the fact that my hon . friend have refer to it in the current contract that he announce yesterday for the next stage of the competition for the medium helicopter lift be a good example of that . he speak about introduce agility , about exportability and about innovation . many of we have be push the MOD to proceed with all those development . the spiral development and , in particular , the move from an initial and a final operator capability to a minimum deployable should have a huge impact on the acceleration of process . sro have be refer to . if my hon . friend can consider extend term — double or triple term — for service personnel and key civil servant in that role , he will assist enormously in retain knowledge within the system . rise — order . may I remind member to focus on the question to which they want the Minister to respond ? it be a privilege to take a question like that from the former Minister for Defence Procurement , who follow another former Minister for Defence Procurement — the Chairman of the Select Committee . I hope that my right hon . friend do not mind my repeat what he say to I privately when I get the job . at that time , he make the same point about the importance of SROs ' spending as long as possible in their role , which be also in the Sheldon report . obviously there be an employment law issue — in the sense that we can not insist on that — but I have refer to statistic which show that we be invest more in SROs , in the Army in particular . my right hon . Friend speak of learn lesson from Ukraine — he be absolutely right . one lesson that I have be strike by be the importance of understand electronic warfare , jamming and interference , and the way in which the battle space have change . that be why I keep emphasise the importance in our system of secure datum from the front and from war gaming to inform procurement . my right hon . Friend make an important point about the complex weapon programme . this involve a portfolio approach that should lead to more agile commercial relationship , enable a well demand signal to industry , which drive its investment , but also allow we to take a nimbler approach when deal with industry . be it be right for the Minister to seek to reform a defence procurement system that the Public Accounts Committee have describe as " broken " ? the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) , have just deliver a speech to Policy Exchange , in which he set out that a future Labour Government will create a national armament director to co - ordinate and oversee defence procurement . why have this Government not do that in the last 14 year ? it be interesting to hear what the hon . Gentleman have just be WhatsApped by the Labour Whips Office , but I be happy to share what be happen in the real world if he want to hear it . Andy Start , who run Defence Equipment and Support , be an excellent national armament director . he have be out lead trade fair in Ukraine , he have lead reform in DE & S , and above all , at a time of war in Europe , he have oversee DE & S , particularly in Abbey Wood , get equipment out to Ukraine and help to keep it in the fight . forgive I , Sir , but — yes ! [ laughter . ] I have wait for year to hear an MOD Minister issue this statement , and this very good Minister have do just that . it be true that the Public Accounts Committee say that the procurement system be break , and last summer the Defence Committee endorse that in a report , produce by a Sub - Committee that I chair , entitle " it be broke — and it ' s time to fix it " . well , I take this to be the " fix it " or " put right " plan . I welcome it , and in particular the sense of urgency that go with it . give that the Defence Secretary have tell we that we now live in a pre - war rather than a post - war world , we must do this soon and , crucially , fast . the proof of the pudding will be in the eating , but can the Minister assure I and the whole House that the sense of urgency that I mention will be at the centre of this , and that he and Andy Start will now get on with it ? I be honour by my right hon . friend . we enjoy our robust exchange , but that be an example that I shall particularly remember . the phrase " a sense of urgency " be , I think , what the public want to hear . important as today ' s exchange be , this be really serious ; it be above politic . this be about the fact that our adversary be ramp up their procurement and their technology — frankly , in some instance , at a frightening pace . that be why embrace the deep relationship with industry , the constant feedback loop on datum from the frontline and from war gaming , be so crucial . I think the Committee have an important role in this regard . I set out our intention in my statement , but for it to be embed we will have a key set of milestone that will enable we , if we work together , to show that it be be implement ; if we can do that together , we can put the pressure on to ensure that it become manifest . I would like to pick up on the point about urgency . we have see what the UK be capable of in defence acquisition from urgent capability requirement or , previously , urgent operational requirement . these harness the ingenuity of british industry and combine it with the professionalism of the british armed force personnel . they remove bureaucracy , focus on the capability rather than detailed specification , and deliver amazing equipment in very short timescale . a great example be the Jackal , the all - terrain mobility platform that be develop at Dunkeswell in my Honiton constituency . how much be the new integrate procurement model inform by the UCR process ? on matter of defence procurement , it always strike I how many former service personnel will raise the issue of urgent operational requirement or whatever else we call they , whatever variation of the acronym . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to stress their importance . they be not something that can be use at scale for the whole procurement system , but in specific , urgent area they be critical , and we will continue to use they . I be consider they in a couple of sensitive area , which obviously I can not talk about far , but he make an excellent point . by the way , the Jackal be an excellent platform . my first trade mission on export be to the Czech Republic , and the Jackal be there . I be proud to receive glow review about it from the defence select committee there . I , too , welcome today ' s statement and the bold strategy , so I thank the Minister . we have a conversation yesterday in which I suggest that we need an arbiter of good taste within strat comms . I be delighted to see the IDA now be form , which should allow for a bit of rigour , with tri - service interest . may I make a point about how we can far reform acquisition ? to my mind , if we be serious about not write cheque that we can not cash , and about financial rigour , discipline and planning , we need to be make procurement team responsible for the entire capability throughout lifecycle . may I please leave that with the Minister ? I be be mischievous , but it be a seed I want to sow . my hon . friend have also serve and have great expertise in logistic and these matter . in many way , that be the portfolio approach : have team within MOD who be focus on a particular capability , potentially cut across the frontline command and the stovepipe approach . it have be particularly useful for complex weapon . in effect , as I have say , we will be use that with drone and uncrewed system , but I be happy to look into it far . I be also glad that my hon . friend stress the importance of the IDA in strat comms . just to be clear , this be about have a way of call out issue that I suspect and hope be not commonplace , but have that presence there will hopefully lead to cultural change , which be the key thing we want to see , so that we get into the habit whereby when we procure , we be look at not just the platform but whether it have the key enabler . if we get the basic right , we will set programme up for success . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement . he outline several change , and I be sure that his emphasis on people be absolutely correct . procurement be not just a matter of system , but about how they be implement and who implement they , and the culture within team be important too . specification change drive complexity , cost and delay . do my hon . friend agree that remove delay from the programme be critical because , if for no other reason , the international security situation demand it ? my hon . friend , who speak with great expertise from significant ministerial experience , make an excellent point . I agree with he wholeheartedly . there have be some debate about the issue of to what extent we can lock requirement so that they do not get change , because it be a frustration . my sense , which I try to share early , be that what we need to lock at the beginning be the top - level political decision — for example , around the type of manufacture , be it sovereign , off the shelf or some combination thereof , which I think one could argue be the case for the New Medium Helicopter . if we do that , our sro , official and commercial team will feel empower , so that they can get on and rush to the finish line . I congratulate my hon . friend on his excellent statement . what training and professional development will be put in place to underpin the new policy ? what he be describe be a wholesale transformation of culture , attitude and behaviour that be require in the Ministry of Defence , particularly around the pace , the people and the leadership of team . this will not be achieve unless there be a concerted effort to change the culture and to implement a change programme in MOD and the armed force that will underpin what he be seek to achieve . I be very grateful to my constituency neighbour — another Essex MP with a great passion for defence procurement reform . we have discuss it at length . he be absolutely right to emphasise the importance of training . a lot of this be already start to happen and come to fruition , and I can give he an example . I refer to a meeting with industry at " Secret " . I attend one such meeting in Main Building , where Mil Cap , who be in charge of military capability in MOD , and I sit with a wide number of defence industry representative and speak to they . the thing that enthuse they be that , because we be at " secret " , we be able to share as sensitively as possible our future plan . a lot of what I be say be about build on work that be ongoing , particularly at DNS , for example . but my hon . friend be right : if we want to make this work , we have to have the people and they have to have the training . my hon . friend will know full well that I be a huge advocate of Leonardo Helicopters in the neighbour yeovil constituency , which be the home of british helicopter as the only end - to - end helicopter supply chain manufacturer in the United Kingdom . I welcome today ' s statement , and I very much welcome his statement early in the week about the New Medium Helicopter procurement , but could he briefly outline how organisation such as Leonardo Helicopters , which employ thousand of people in south Somerset and West Dorset , might benefit from his statement today ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . he be a champion of the rotary industry , which support so many job in his constituency . it be thank to the championing of that interest by he and other colleague who have constituency interest in the procurement that it be move forward as it be . obviously it be a competition , so we have to be even - handed and recognise that all three company have their strength , but I would emphasise two point about that procurement . first , there be a strong emphasis on UK industrial contribution , particularly in design work . that be the most important work , and it be what we want to see in the UK . secondly , there be the huge weighting for exportability . as far as I be aware , Type 31 be the only other such procurement where we have have a weighting for exportability . I want that to be the default so that my hon . friend can say to his constituent that , because of his campaigning , this procurement will give a strong weighting to UK job and prosperity . defence procurement have be a work in progress since Samuel Pepys , and I welcome the late reform . one issue when I be in the Ministry of Defence and then on the Public Accounts Committee be that sro be in place for a fraction of the contract life cycle . will the Minister ensure that long term apply across all programme , not just those in the Army ? how will the much - need reform help get well value for money , particularly for contract that be award without competition ? my hon . friend make an important point about Samuel Pepys . my diplomatic answer would be that defence procurement have perhaps be subject to spiral development for long than we think . my hon . friend make an important point about value for money , particularly for single source . I stress that the change will come into force at the same time as we be also reform single source regulation . I will soon have the great pleasure of bring forward a statutory instrument , which will make a number of change to single source regulation to ensure that they be optimise . they be a good way of ensure that the inevitable single source procurement that we will always have in defence , not least in highly sensitive area or where there be one specialist supplier , be as effective as possible . he make a very good point . I welcome the statement , particularly the new thinking around factoring export for the future into defence acquisition and procurement . I thank the Minister for his recent visit to Shropshire . would he like to put on the record his thank to all the fantastic defence engineer — man , woman and apprentice — who work at Rheinmetall BAE Systems Land and the defence support group Babcock , which be deliver for defence and keep we safe at home and abroad ? would he perhaps like to hint at new job and new contract in Shropshire up to 2030 ? my right hon . friend be an absolute champion of defence job in his constituency in Shropshire . I be delighted to visit rbsl in Telford , which be make not only Boxer but Challenger 3 , two of the three key component of our future armoured combat battlegroup . it be a pleasure to meet the apprentice and other worker , and to see the reality behind those job that we often talk of as statistic . Babcock be also an important employer in his constituency . I will say to he that the opportunity will be there not only through our own procurement but through put exportability at the heart of procurement , to ensure that we sustain our industrial base for as long as possible by give it the wide possible market . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I have inform the relevant Member of my raise this point of order . on 10 January , the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) ask the Prime Minister an oral question about Hillingdon Hospital in his constituency . he say that " the new Hillingdon hospital have full planning permission and full funding and enable work be well under way . " — [ Official Report , 10 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 295 . ] however , a freedom of information request have reveal that " the total funding for the redevelopment of Hillingdon Hospital be to be confirm " . I far understand that the start date for the procurement of a contractor and for the construction of the hospital be yet to be confirm . give that the hon . Gentleman may have unintentionally mislead the House on a matter of great concern to his constituent , I seek your assistance , Mr Deputy Speaker , in ask he to set the record straight on this matter . I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order and for give I forward notice of it . she have clearly make public her view on this matter . while I be not responsible for the content of Members ' question , I draw the matter to the attention of those on the Treasury Bench so that if a Member have unintentionally mislead the House , they can be advise to correct the record as soon as possible . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I want to clarify the record because something I say in the House yesterday be not , it turn out , on further investigation , entirely accurate . I have be campaign for some time on supermarket chain ' charge motorist in Chesterfield several pence more than they be be charge a few mile up the road . yesterday I take the opportunity again to bring that to the attention of the House during Department for Energy Security and Net Zero question . since then my office have discover that price in Chesterfield be now the same as they be in Sheffield , or very slightly less , so I want to give credit to the supermarket , who appear to have put in place the change that be need . I say that Chesterfield motorist be be overcharge , but they no long be , which be a very happy thing , so I take this opportunity to correct the record . I can see motorist speed towards — well , perhaps not speed but head towards the hon . member ' s constituency to fill up . when someone unintentionally mislead the House , that be how to correct the record with speed . I thank the hon . gentleman for that . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . today , report that Thames Water have be lobby the Government and Ofwat to let it increase bill and face low fine come as the company seek to avoid a potential £ 18 billion bail - out from the taxpayer . it seem clear that the UK ' s large water company be teeter on the brink of collapse . my constituent and all the 16 million people who depend on Thames Water across London , the Thames valley , Surrey and elsewhere will be deeply concerned about what a collapse of Thames Water could mean for they . we know that the Government have prepare a contingency plan for that event . that be confirm to I in response to a write question that I table this month . however , in the same response the Government refuse to make that plan public . the prospect of a multibillion - pound bail - out mean that this have cease to be a purely commercial matter , and there be now a significant public interest in the publication of the plan . may I please ask your advice , Mr Deputy Speaker , on how I might compel the Government to come to the House to provide reassurance to my constituent as soon as possible , and on what measure the House can take to ensure that the Government publish their contingency plan for the event of Thames Water ' s collapse ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order and for give I forward notice of it . she have already do a lot of work on this , so she know the avenue to go through , but she can always seek guidance from the Table Office on how to pursue the matter far . while it be not in the power of the Chair to compel Ministers to come here , they will have hear the point of order through those on the Treasury Bench , so I be grateful to the hon . Lady for make it . Bill present High Income Child Benefit Charge ( Review and Impact Assessment ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Wendy Chamberlain present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to undertake and publish a review of the merit of raise the income threshold for the High Income Child Benefit Charge and of reform the process for declare income above that threshold ; to require the Secretary of State to publish an assessment of the impact of the High Income Child Benefit Charge on single parent and on full - time caregiver for child ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June , and to be print ( Bill 170 ) . Brain Tumours Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) 2 . 55 pm I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to set a target for the number of glioblastoma patient who take part in clinical trial each year ; to require training for medical oncologist to include training relate to brain cancer ; to provide that any drug that have be license for use on tumour must be trialle on people with brain tumour ; to make provision in relation to neuro - oncology multidisciplinary team in the NHS , include a requirement that each such team must include a medical oncologist ; to require manufacturer of drug license to treat tumour to make those drug available in specify circumstance for clinical trial relate to brain tumour ; to make provision about the application of funding cap on funding for multi - drug treatment for glioblastoma brain tumour ; to make provision about the process for funding of drug intend for the treatment of glioblastoma ; to make provision about the management of drug trial datum , for the purpose of increase the quality of datum relate to glioblastoma patient ; to make provision about review the allocation of exist funding for brain tumour research by the National Institute for Health and Care Research ; to make provision about the direct referral of patient by optometrist to accident and emergency department for the purpose of diagnose brain tumour ; and for connected purpose . the reason I be speak again about this terrible disease be a personal one . it be why this campaign will always feel different from the other campaign I take on . on 24 June 2023 , I lose my wonderful sister Margaret to a glioblastoma brain tumour . as soon as Margaret receive her diagnosis , we find out just how bad the treatment be , how the life expectancy be nine month and how there have not be a new treatment on the NHS for 30 year . we find out that family in the UK be leave to crowdfund and sell their house to fund private treatment , and that they would have to take their very sick family member on to a plane and fly thousand of mile to access healthcare in Germany or the United States . that be why Margaret start her final campaign : to find a cure for glioblastoma brain tumour . when Margaret pass away on 24 June , it be leave to I to take on that battle . her mission be now my mission . the Government have leave the disease in the " too difficult " pile for too long , and I be here to put find a cure back on the Government ' s agenda . the second reason I be make this speech be above we in the view Gallery : I be incredibly grateful that a number of patient ' family have come to the House to hear the speech , and their support be a reminder that 3 , 200 people be diagnose with a glioblastoma brain tumour every year . it be not just Margaret who be force to fly thousand of mile to access the treatment that should have be provide on the NHS , but family up and down the country who be be fail and who deserve well . have care for someone with a brain tumour , I know how bad thing be , and I know that if we try something different , we can give people diagnose with this deadly disease some hope . this be my something different . no . 1 be the pharmaceutical industry . Dr Paul Mulholland be Europe ' s lead medical oncologist in glioblastoma . he believe that we be on the cusp of a cure and he would like to run clinical trial so that he can turn that belief into a reality , but the pharmaceutical industry have refuse to donate the drug he need for those trial to take place . that be because glioblastoma be a very small market for those company . with only 3 , 200 people diagnose each year , the investment be just not profitable — there be not much money in it , and the company be not interested . that be why , as policymaker , it be our job either to encourage or to force the pharmaceutical company to provide the drug for these trial . I will give just one example . in October , I meet Moderna to ask if it could donate medicine for a clinical trial of 10 patient . I have hope that it would give clinical access to its mrna pipeline to help find a cure , but it refuse . this company with annual sale of $ 4 billion refuse to donate drug for 10 people at a maximum cost of half a million pound . these drug could save thousand of life each year , so Moderna ' s refusal be shameful . the House will be interested to hear that Moderna have publish an environmental , social and governance statement on its website that say it have " a responsibility to the multitude of patient our technology could help , regardless of whether they have a disease share by million , or one that be unique to they alone . " the statement say that Moderna " understand what our stakeholder expect from we as a sustainable responsible business and leader in mrna medicine . " those word be clearly meaningless . I do not mean to sound pessimistic , because some company have be very supportive — I have have wonderful conversation with Roche — but where company such as Moderna have the fund and the medicine but lack the will to find a cure for brain tumour , I think it be the Government ' s duty to step in and legislate to ensure that they do . the second difference be about regulation . we need to ensure that our regulator incentivise the pharmaceutical industry and clinician to do as many clinical trial as possible . right now , the pharmaceutical industry see the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency and the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence as a barrier , as a reason not to do clinical trial in the UK . that need to change . for starter , when a pharmaceutical company be trialle a drug for glioblastoma and another disease such as melanoma , the MHRA should allow it to submit its datum separately , so that glioblastoma patient ' result do not adversely affect the application . funding treatment as a package have be a major impediment to the industry . we can solve this issue if NICE fund each drug use in the treatment of glioblastoma separately . we will make progress if we make those change , but we should not stop there . we need a whole host of policy change if we want to make a change . if we carry on with the same old process , we will get the same old result , which in the case of brain tumour research be failure . we also need a target of get 200 glioblastoma patient each year into clinical trial on drug that have the potential to change the course of the disease . we need the NHS to ensure that every neuro - oncology multidisciplinary team have a medical oncologist as a core member , so that brain tumour patient be not leave in a corner of the ward because there be nobody to fight for they . the NHS should make it easy for optometrist to directly refer patient straight to a & E for a scan without go through their gp . on Monday I meet the Anticancer Fund , which be base in Brussels , and I think I have discover the one benefit of Brexit . Brexit mean that the NHS medicine repurpose programme have be able to identify drug that be initially purpose to cure another cancer , and that be exactly what we need to tackle brain tumour . the NHS should require that every doctor train to be a medical oncologist go through a mandatory course on brain tumour , which take I to my final recommendation . in 2018 , after Tessa Jowell sadly pass away from glioblastoma , £ 40 million of Government funding be promise to fund research into brain tumour . as of January 2024 , just £ 15 million of that £ 40 million have be award . that be a real failure of government . the MHRA should be shout loud and proud about how much money be available for investment in brain tumour treatment , but it do not and I can not understand why . for as long as there be no progress and I be a Member , I will come back to the House at every opportunity . I come into politic to fight for people who be not hear , and there be few people hear less than those who suffer from glioblastoma . question put and agree to . order , that Dame Siobhain McDonagh , Will Quince , George Freeman , Tracey Crouch , Steve Brine , Helen Hayes , Paul Blomfield , Sarah Owen , Dame Meg Hillier , Daisy Cooper and Wes Streeting present the Bill . Dame Siobhain McDonagh accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 19 April , and to be print ( Bill 169 ) . your campaign be one of Margaret ' s legacy . thank you , Siobhain . Pedicabs ( London ) Bill [ Lords ] second reading I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . it be a pleasure and a privilege to move the motion on Second reading for this Bill , which tackle an issue that have plague London ' s road for far too long . without a shadow of a doubt , the Bill have a long and chequer history in get to this stage , and legislator have be call for legislation on the issue for over 20 year . it be unquestionably the case that in 2011 the Law Commission commence its 11th programme of law reform , which include a review of the legal framework relate to this space . that be publish on 23 May 2014 , and it recommend bring pedicab within the scope of taxi and private hire regulation . Successive Mayors , include the present Mayor , have support regulation in this space . the previous Mayor of London , Mr Boris Johnson , call in 2012 for Transport for London to have the power to remove pedicab that do not meet rigorous safety and licensing standard . an independent task and finish group on taxi and private hire vehicle licensing be subsequently commission by the Government in September 2017 . the Minister be make a very good point about the cross - party support from both a Labour Mayor and a Conservative Mayor . do he agree that it be important to recognise that the pedicab industry have also call for proper regulation ? the London Pedicab Operators Association write to I to say that it be " in accord with the universal view that pedicabs must be fairly and appropriately regulate fast . " do the Minister agree that it be important to do it now ? anyone who have see this particular problem on the street of London will accept that there be clear public demand for pedicab and that there be organisation that want to have regulate , safe pedicab on the street of London . my hon . friend be right to say that the industry wish to be regulate so that the good actor can be support , so that people can have trust in this industry , although it be small , and so that the rogue actor — I will come on to they in a bit more detail — be not only discouraged but prevent from operate in this way . we have to be blunt about some of the particular example , and this have a significant and real impact on the tourist industry in this country , on woman ' s health in particular — but also that of general member of the public — and on the potential commission of crime . some of the bad example include a tourist charge more than £ 450 for a seven - minute , 1 . 3 mile journey with their two child , another charge £ 500 for a 10 - minute journey between Mayfair and Soho , and one hit with a £ 180 bill for a three - minute journey — fortunately on that occasion the driver be order to return the money by local police and Westminster City Council . the truth be that the task and finish group have be seek a space for a safe and responsible pedicab trade . the quote that be set out in the House of Commons guidance say that " there have be much justify criticism in recent year of rogue pedicab operator take advantage of tourist with excessive charge and absence of safety check " , and it go on : " it be not acceptable that Transport for London be unable to regulate pedicab to ensure a safe service ; the Government announce in 2016 that it would rectify this , and the legislation should be bring forward as soon as possible . " that be say in 2018 . subsequently , in 2019 , the Government make it crystal clear that they support the Bill . there have be various attempt to bring this matter forward and — let we be blunt — this be a thin Bill deal with a niche issue , but it be something that genuinely do matter . such issue be traditionally often handle by way of a private Member ' s Bill , and various colleague have try to bring this matter forward by way of a private Member ' s Bill , start with my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) . will my hon . friend give way ? as I have just name my hon . friend , I will be delighted to give way . I be grateful to the Minister for give way , and he be , as ever , make an excellent speech . do he agree that the Mayor , the council , resident , business , Parliament — largely — and the pedicab industry itself agree with simply change a 19th - century legislative anomaly in order for the only form of public transport in London that be not regulate to come under that banner ? do he agree that this could and should have be do year ago , and that it should be do easily now ? my hon . friend will know that pedicab be effectively stage carriage under the Metropolitan Public Carriage Act 1869 — with which we be all deeply familiar , I be quite sure . that mean they be the only unregulated form of public transport operate on London ' s road . he be right to highlight that this have cross - party support across London , as well as support from a variety of Mayors and local authority . it have the support of the business industry and those who want to be part of a regulated pedicab industry . tourist visit London who step into a pedicab should not , I believe , face the risk of an inappropriate fare , an unlicensed driver who have have no background check , and a vehicle with potentially no safety standard — sadly , that be fairly regularly the case . would we not have have a regulatory regime have the Licensed Taxi Drivers ' Association not be campaign openly and publicly for ban pedicab altogether , rather than regulate they ? I say with real , genuine respect for my hon . friend — I be his Whip for a while — who clearly have strong view on these matter , that although the London taxi driver may have a view , have unregulated provider on the street of London who be clearly , in some sad case , abuse tourist and have a very bad reputation — rip people off to the tune of £ 500 for a couple of minute ' journey — do not give a good image of London . there have be attempt under successive government to tackle this issue by way of private Members ' Bills , which be often how small legislation be often deal with in this place . the taxi driver do not have anything fundamentally to fear from a regulated pedicab industry , because regulated pedicab exist in other city , and it be not the case that anybody be try to take away unfair competition . the taxi driver have be regulate in a perfectly appropriate way by successive government on a cross - party basis , and we want they to thrive and exist and provide the service they do to Londoners and tourist alike . be the Minister aware that at a meeting with licensed taxi driver at City Hall on 17 January 2004 Bob Oddy refer to a video produce by the LTDA , " Ban Don ' t License " , and the LTDA be campaign not for registration of pedicab but for a complete ban ? will the Government commit to ensure pedicab be not regulate out of existence ? there be quite a lot to unpick from that question on event of 20 year ago , but I will do my good . first , the Government do not want to regulate any particular part of the sector out of existence , and , in fact , pedicab exist elsewhere . secondly , I be absolutely confident that we can have a situation in which people be charge an appropriate fee for what be a physical activity — charge for cycle someone around the flattish street of London be fairly simple stuff — and pedicab operator get a proper return for their endeavour while make sure the cost be not £ 500 for five minute . it be perfectly possible for we to create a proper market where there be safety check in the usual way without pedicab no long be in existence . the point be answer by my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) : as she rightly point out , a number of pedicab operator want to get rid of the bad actor so they can thrive . there be nothing fundamentally wrong with that — there really be not . there be space in the great city of London for the black cab industry , the private motor vehicle industry in the form of private hire , and pedicabs ; all three can and should co - exist , along with all the bus , the tube and the like . I agree with the Minister about the mixture of transport mode we enjoy in London — and people should also be able to enjoy that across the rest of the nation . bring we forward to the last few year as oppose to 2004 , when I chair a transport committee on the London Assembly in 2017 we look at accessibility and ensure access to different transport mode in the capital . do the Minister agree that by bring forward this legislation and help Transport for London to set the regulation , we will have license pedicab with clear operator , allow for a licence duration , fee , suspension and clear charging , which will help pedicab add to the mix of transport mode in London ? it be hard to disagree with those point , but I accept that my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) have concern and I want to try to try to address some of his point . this be not something that just one side of the House be seek ; all part of the House be seek it , as have successive Mayors , include Mr Boris Johnson , late of this parish , who enthusiastically support it . I accept entirely that some may have concern about Transport for London not be part of the Government as such , but successive Mayors of different political persuasion have be happy for TfL to run this appropriate regulation . the hon . Lady touch on a variety of point , but clearly there be other issue , such as noise , the persistent and ongoing blocking of footpath — which unquestionably have significant issue for accessibility — and the general causing of nuisance . without a shadow of a doubt , there be plentiful example to show why this measure have be call for on a repeat basis and why the Government should act in this space . I be not against this Bill , but I would like some general reassurance from the Minister . I be not the sort of Conservative who believe in more regulation , particularly when it come to young entrepreneur provide a fairly simple service for tourist . can he assure I that , when this regulation come into force , it will be light touch and not onerous , so that we do not kill this young and perfectly acceptable industry ? I be perfectly happy to be reassure ; I just want the Minister to do that for I . the answer be yes and yes . the key point be that , as this be a totally unregulated market , it be hard to be precise as to how many people be provide this service on a daily or weekly basis . in London , it be in the several hundred , rather than the thousand . those who wish to take this industry seriously and do thing properly unquestionably feel that they can run a young entrepreneurial business with a proper reputation and the right amount of enthusiasm and aspiration in a truly conservative way , and also provide a safe service in which tourist can have confidence . I genuinely believe that that be the case . if it matter that there be a strong recommendation that the measure will be appropriate , but light touch , I be happy to provide that from this Dispatch Box . I have go on for long than I intend , but I genuinely believe that the Bill will ensure that the pedicab industry be respectable , safe and regulate in an appropriate fashion , and that it bring the same accountability to this industry that we rightly expect in a great capital city that be , rightly , a tourist hotspot , and we wish to continue to support that . the Bill be support by Londoners , councillor and member of Parliament , and there be no question but that I be happy to commend it to the House . it be a pleasure to speak for the Opposition on Second Reading this afternoon . as my colleague in the other place have set out , Labour welcome this short yet vital Bill and will support its progress , but it be long overdue . after year of ask for these power from the Government , the Bill will finally give Transport for London the power to tackle the blight of unregulated pedicab in London — largely in the city ' s west end . as colleague will know all too well , pedicab have be able to operate without regulation for decade due to a legal loophole in London . they be not consider taxi under the current law and be instead define as " stage carriage " under section 4 of the Metropolitan Public Carriage Act 1869 . however , with section 4 no long in force , a completely unregulate pedicab industry have emerge in London . indeed , as the Minister infer , it be the only form of unregulated public transport in the capital . between 2018 and 2023 , 24 pedicab operator incident be report in London , include six sexual offence and 13 injury - cause collision . pedicab have also be notorious for egregious overcharging of tourist , as of course they be currently entirely free to determine their own fare , sometimes seemingly at random . as the Minister reference , a tourist with two young child be charge more than £ 450 for a seven - minute journey in a pedicab . the driver intimidate the tourist into immediate payment and then disappear — presumably to avoid be report . this be just one of many concern report of unacceptable behaviour from unlicensed operator . it be clear that TfL urgently need the power necessary to regulate , and I be pleased that the Bill will go a long way in make pedicab safe for passenger , because it be this emphasis on safety that be so vital . I know that the Minister and I agree that we do not want pedicab ban from London street ; we just want they to be as well - regulate on safety as any other mode of public transport . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way . he be speak very eloquently . I also welcome the word from the Minister this afternoon . do my hon . friend agree that there be a very similar situation with other new form of transport , such as e - scooter and e - motorbike ? hopefully , there can be a similar discussion about the safety issue and about balance the need for new form of transport against the safety of pedestrian . perhaps he can say a few word about the need for the Government to look at that issue as their next objective in this area of transport policy . I agree with my hon . friend . I would have like to have see the Government hold to their promise of deliver a comprehensive transport Bill . thing such as e - scooter need a decision one way or the other ; we can not extend the trial indefinitely . a regulated pedicab sector can bring enormous benefit to London , as a unique zero - carbon way to travel in an equally unique , thrive part of London with a bustling night - time economy . indeed , a sustainable pedicab industry can be in keep with the treasured , colourful , unique character of the west end , while also ensure that regulation be in place to keep passenger safe . I be pleased that the Bill have reach this Chamber in a much improved state , thank to the hard work of colleague in the other place , notably labour lord . in particular , we welcome that the Government have concede on ensure that the power to regulate be entirely devolve to Transport for London , rather than the time - consume and unnecessary step of require parliamentary approval . such a requirement would have be anomalous compare with tfl ' s wide power on private hire regulation , or indeed with other combine authority ' s regulatory power . for that reason , we welcome the Government ' s removal of subsection ( 2 ) of clause 6 and the insertion of clause 7 on guidance from the Secretary of State instead . additionally , we warmly welcome the Government ' s decision to amend clause 2 , to make provision for regulation on noise nuisance , which be a key concern that stakeholder have be raise for year . that be say , as positive as the Bill be , the Government have take far too long to get to this point . transport for London , Westminster City Council , the Local Government Association and various night - time economy trade association have be call for action on pedicab for year . and for year , the Government repeatedly promise action , with private member ' bill even be propose on the same topic by Government mps . the reality be that this legislation be desperately overdue and should have be part of a much more comprehensive transport Bill . local council , industry body and manufacturer alike be cry out for clarity from the Government on e - scooter and e - bike regulation , for instance , but the Government seem to refuse to take this opportunity to make progress in this area . none the less , the Bill be important in its own term , and I be pleased that TfL ' s power to regulate on this issue will be on the statute book in due course . a key issue that many stakeholder , include the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association and Transport for London , have raise be make pedicab operator eligible for enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service check in line with taxi and private hire driver . I know that that be raise by several colleague in the other place , where the Minister say that the Government be look into it . I would be grateful if the Minister could provide an update and say whether we can explore that in Committee , because this be an opportunity to ensure that passenger safety be as robust as possible . overall , this be a much - need but desperately overdue Bill . I look forward to work with the Minister and other colleague as the Bill progress . I , perhaps more than most here today , welcome the Second reading of the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill . it do seem to be groundhog day for I , as this will be the third time since enter Parliament in 2019 that I have stand in this Chamber and speak on Second Reading to highlight the need for a licensing scheme for pedicab in London . Madam Deputy Speaker , you and other in and outside Parliament could be forgive for wonder why on earth the Government have give time for this small Bill . one would expect that it should become law via a private Member ' s Bill , as the Minister mention . it should have do , as four attempt have be make via private member ' bill to introduce a pedicab license scheme in London . one be make by my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) ; a second by my predecessor , Mark Field ; and since enter Parliament I have twice promote a private Member ' s Bill on pedicab licensing , but because of the way such Bills fall due to a single objection , mine have fail . therefore , I be truly grateful for what the Government have do , first under the former Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , who be 100 % behind the wish to secure pedicab legislation . he agree with the then Transport Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Grant Shapps ) , to put a clause in the plan transport Bill , which fall when Mr Johnson resign . I then start my lobbying from scratch and meet no . 10 official from the current Administration to make the case for pedicab legislation to be give Government time . I would like to put on record my thank to people from across Parliament who have provide help , particularly Baroness Stowell of Beeston , who support my campaign to lobby Ministers and their special adviser . I would also like to put on record my thank and admiration for the two special adviser , James Nation and Will Tanner , who accept that we need to introduce pedicab regulation . without they , we would not be here today and I thank they , the Minister and the Transport Secretary for understand the reason why we need this legislation . I do not know for certain whether we would get Government time for this legislation , so when I stand in the other place and hear his Majesty announce " a Bill will be introduce to deal with the scourge of unlicensed pedicab in London " , you could have knock I over with a feather . it be fair to ask why we need this legislation at all . first , I wish to point out that this Bill do not and will not propose to ban pedicab from the street of London ; it be about improve the condition for driver and passenger . I firmly believe that if we could have properly regulate pedicab , they could offer a very positive and special visitor experience . I understand that pedicab regulation already exist in this country and where it do , in place such as Oxford , York and Salisbury , we still see pedicab , but they provide a much well offer . it be clear that the regulation of pedicab do not mean their eradication . my hon . friend will have see , as I have , the briefing from Cycling UK . do she recall that it say : " even where local authority have be keen to support local would - be pedicab operator ( as have happen in Oxford , Salisbury and York ) , they have be unable to operate on a ply - for - hire basis , because the local taxi operator ( who view they as competition ) start ask question about whether the pedicabs and their operator have the same insurance etc " ? Pedicabs have not be able to operate in those area outside London because of the opposition from the licensed taxi driver . I thank my hon . friend for that point . as far as I be concern , Cycling UK have support this Bill — I have have several meeting with Cycling UK and I believe my hon . friend may have be involve in some of those meeting previously . it have always understand why I want to bring in this Bill . it be important to make the point that the driver and vehicle must be safe . there have be too many instance where police operation and operation in conjunction with Westminster City Council have find driver who be unfit to be take passenger , include those who be want for serious crime , such as sexual violence crime . I believe that one person be even find to be want for murder — do the hon . Lady agree that this regulation be not just about ensure a fair and transparent fare model , because TfL will have the option to ensure that those driver undergo criminal check and that they have the right to work in the UK ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention , as it come to the crux of why I want to introduce this legislation : I want to make these vehicle safe , not only through ensure that they be pass mot and be fit to be on the street , but by ensure that the driver be safe . again , as a result of the operation that the police and Westminster City Council have undertake over the year , we have find asylum seeker who have not get the right to work drive these pedicab , and we have find illegal immigrant who have not get the right to work here . let we not forget that those people be also be exploit . one reason it be important to have regulate pedicab be that it will ensure that driver have right . we also have to ensure that we have a regulated , fair system in place . operator must adhere to the highway code and not play blaring music at all hour of the day and night . it be time that pedicab in London be regulate , as black cab , Ubers and private hire vehicle be . I hear what my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) say about what the Licensed Taxi Drivers ' Association say 20 year ago . in my own meeting in the last couple of year , taxi driver have be very clear that they want a level playing field . they do not expect pedicab to be ban ; they just want they to be as safe as black cab . why should a black cab driver have to jump through so many hoop to get on the road , when a pedicab driver can literally get on a pedicab , go on to the street of Westminster and ply for trade ? it can not be right , and we have to ensure that the whole system be fair , just and legal . part of my constituency , include Soho , Covent Garden , Marylebone and Fitzrovia , can become like the wild west . it become the wild west end at time because of the sheer number of pedicab on the street . too many play extraordinarily loud music , often block road and pavement , disrupt resident and business , and have a poor track record of exploit London ' s tourist . I be extremely grateful for the wide range of support that I have have for secure pedicab regulation from local people across the two city , from resident association such as the Soho Society , the Marylebone Association , and the Covent Garden Community Association , and from business include the Hippodrome , Heart of London Business Alliance and the New West End Company . I also thank Roger Geffen from Cycling UK , Chris Dixon from Pedal Me , and Friedel Schroder from the London Pedicabs Operators Association , who have be on this journey with I and always provide I with the information and support for what I intend to do . the reason pedicab be not regulate in London , as we have hear , can be trace back to the fact that , under the Metropolitan Public Carriage Act 1869 , pedicab in Greater London be define as a stage carriage . modern legislation have not correct the issue , and thus pedicab do not fall under Transport for London ' s license power . as a result , pedicab be currently the only form of public transport that be not regulate in London . the Bill correct that , clearly outline that , to attain a licence to operate a pedicab , operator must adhere to several requirement pertain to their pedicab . the requirement relate to the road - worthiness and cleanliness of pedicabs , safety and insurance , the type of equipment that must be carry onboard , the appearance and marking of pedicab , and the conduct of pedicab operator . I must thank the noble member of the other place , where the Bill begin its parliamentary journey , who have improve the Bill and ensure that it be as watertight as possible . I put on record my gratitude to the transport Minister Lord Davies of Gower for his excellent stewardship of the Bill through the other place , and for join I and today ' s Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) , on a visit to Leicester Square on a Sunday evening to see the situation for himself . I be sure that it be enjoyable , and a different ministerial visit than they be both use to . in that time , we see four pedicab block a pavement , which would have prevent an emergency vehicle , be it an ambulance , fire engine or police vehicle , from enter Leicester Square have there be an incident . Pedicabs have to be properly regulate to ensure that the public be safe . the other place have tighten up the definition of a pedicab to prevent any adjustment from be make to a pedicab to get around the licensing requirement . not only will the Bill ensure that the conduct of operate a pedicab be regulate , but it will provide Transport for London , which will operate the licensing scheme , with the power to implement a proper , fair system like the one for black cab and Ubers . rip - off fare from pedicab be a constant theme in my inbox , and in medium coverage . I thank the hon . Lady for make such a powerful speech on why we need regulation . be she aware of the BBC Democracy report on its undercover work look at the fee charge ? one pedicab charge a flat fee of £ 5 per minute and another reportedly close to £ 500 for a 10 - minute ride . do she not think that that be an extortionate rip - off ? I absolutely agree and thank the hon . Lady for her point . the BBC Democracy report be fascinating about some pedicab driver , although I must make the very important point that not all pedicab driver be rogue . there be brilliant organisation and company such as Pedal I — I have work with Chris Dixon , the founder — which be an outstanding pedicab company that look after its driver properly , and its vehicle . I want all pedicab to be like that . the BBC Democracy report , however , show that some pedicabs driver be be use for drug dealing and take people to brothel , where they deserve what happen if they go to some very dodgy club . that be why we have to regulate and ensure that driver be fit to carry passenger and that they be legally able to work in this country , more than anything . such pedicab fare be in the medium constantly , especially when pedicab operator take advantage of vulnerable tourist enjoy the incredible cultural offer of the west end . a constituent who come across one such tourist incident write to I : " the Pedicab operator get very aggressive when the Americans refuse to pay £ 300 for a journey from Trafalgar Square to Great Smith Street " , which be a journey of 0 . 8 mile . I welcome the Bill ' s provide Transport for London with power to set what fare can be charge , when and how passenger must be make aware of the fare , and what method of payment be acceptable . perhaps the most popular part of the Bill for my constituent be the provision on rider ’ conduct , which thank to the other place have be strengthen to include noise limit . the frustration local people often face due to the loudspeaker many pedicab carry be well sum up by a constituent who tell I : " I have no choice but to listen to music hour after hour , day after day , and often until the early hour of the morning . they be leave in situ , able to do it , as they all know the council and the police have no power to stop they " . I be therefore pleased to see the other place strengthen the Bill ' s ability to tackle unreasonable noise level by add noise restriction to the conduct requirement that operator must meet in order to keep their licence . the hon . Lady may know that a number of pedicabs congregate outside St Thomas ' s Hospital in my constituency , where patient be recover from lifesave treatment . do she agree that have that noise blare out in the early hour of the morning be totally unreasonable ? it be completely unreasonable ; the hon . Lady make a good point . not only hospital be affect ; hotel be lose business . if a pedicab be outside a hotel in the west end at 2 in the morning and do not move for hour , patron rightly complain and ask for their money back . this be not just about resident and hospital patient , but about business lose money . I be pleased about the noise level be add to the restriction . as my constituent rightly point out , pedicab can get away with act like that , because there be no power to contain they . the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill will bring that to an end , I hope . those operator who do not adhere to their new licence term can be give a fix penalty notice . if the conduct of operator do not improve after that , Transport for London reserve the right to demobilise , seize and dispose of pedicab that contravene the regulation . that will make a huge difference . finally , I will touch on the role of Transport for London . I put on the record my sincere thank to Will Norman , the Mayor of London ' s walk and cycling commissioner . he have work closely with I on my private Member ' s Bills and have be a huge advocate for pedicab regulation . I note that in the other place an amendment be table to allow the Department for Transport to provide Transport for London with statutory guidance on pedicab regulation . I agree with that and welcome the fact that the Government have accept that amendment . TfL be the correct body to oversee regulation , as it currently regulate licensing for all other taxi and private hire . it may have take four private member ' Bills , an abandon transport Bill and year of lobbying and campaigning by politician from across the political divide , but I be confident that the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill will finally become law , the street of London will be safe , and we will have a safe and thriving pedicab industry . it be an honour to follow my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) . I thank she for her work in bring the Bill to this stage , and pay tribute to member for the cross - party support that it have receive . the Bill be support by the Mayor of London , by my borough council — Lambeth Council — by Westminster City Council , by the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea , and by hon . member from across the political divide . I share Westminster bridge with the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster : half the bridge be in Vauxhall ; the other half be in the City of Westminster . I regularly cross the bridge on my way to work . I need not tell any Member that that bridge can be busy ; you literally have to fight to get across it — in some case , for your life . I want the bridge to be busy , because that mean that tourist be come to London , our night - time economy be thrive , my constituency on the south bank be see those visitor come and spending , and people be support our local business . it mean that people be able to thrive — and that be what we want . it be what make London unique , so it be important that we celebrate the fact that more and more people be come to Westminster bridge and part of central London . however , we also want people to have a good experience . in that case , why be there still a proliferation of unlicensed market stall sell hot dog and block the pavement with impunity on the Lambeth side of Westminster bridge ? I continually raise that issue with the Lambeth North safe neighbourhood policing team , with Lambeth Council and , rightly , with the Met Police Commissioner . I have say to the commissioner on a number of occasion that , yes , there be many major policing challenge in London , but that activity be a blight on a key part of London that receive so many tourist . there be also the crime element of those thing . through work with the safe neighbourhood team lead by Sergeant Watson , we have see a number of prosecution in recent month , and I hope that with more support and funding for our police officer , we can eradicate that activity for good . pedicab be part of the experience for many visitor to London . the Bill ' s main purpose be not to ban they outright , but we can not deny that , with their current unregulated status , they be create serious risk and problem for tourist , resident , the road network , and , as the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster highlight , for the driver themselves . currently , someone get into a pedicab have no clear idea of what they be get into : they do not know how safe the driver be , how roadworthy the pedicab be , or how often it have be clean . not only be that dangerous for everyone on board ; it also disadvantage those who spend money maintain their pedicab only to see their hard work , trust and investment damage by those who continue to take risk . it be right that clause 2 ( 6 ) ( a ) , ( b ) and ( c ) give Transport for London the power to create a clear safety and cleanliness standard so that people can trust that the pedicab they be use be not dangerous . I also welcome the amendment to clause 2 ( 6 ) ( i ) make in the other place . I confess that when I be drive , sometimes I like listen to music . I will not tell you my choice of music , Madam Deputy Speaker , but it range from Beyonc é and the Spice Girls to Taylor Swift and Usher Raymond . we know that when it come to pedicab , music can also be part of the experience ; it go a long way , but I have have constituent complain about the loud music from pedicab and the noise nuisance that they create in residential area , as the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster also outline . it be right that we give TfL the power to act on that . while a lot of our focus may be on the problem customer face in pedicab , it be also right that we look at the work condition of their driver . many driver find themselves be exploit ; they work long hour and tiring shift in close proximity to extremely loud music , and — let ' s be honest — some face abuse from customer , with very little protection . it be therefore right that clause 2 ( 6 ) ( h ) allow provision to be make relate to the work condition of driver . I hope that be not forget when TfL draft the regulation . like many people , I also welcome clause 2 ( 5 ) , which relate to how fare be advertise , charge and pay for ; we have hear many story and anecdote of how those fare be not fair . I do not think any of we expect that pedicabs will , or should , become a cost - effective way of travel around our capital , and it be clear that many people get into pedicab do so because of the wild and wacky experience they offer — those light can sometimes be quite attractive , especially when the pedicab have pink fluffy feather as well — but there be a big difference between pay a premium for an experience and , frankly , be exploit . as the Minister touch on , the BBC report in July on a belgian tourist who be charge £ 464 for a mile - long ride . when she complain , the driver demand immediate payment , make she feel really threaten . do we think any tourist who have have that experience will want to come back ? do we think they be go to tell their friend and family , " come to London " , when this be what can happen ? this be not about just one egregious case ; as we have hear , there be many other case of such exploitation . many tourist have be advertise trip between the like of Westminster bridge , just outside this place , and Trafalgar Square without know how close they be , and rightly feel cheated when they be charge £ 50 for a 10 - minute journey . I know that London be expensive , but come on — that be just a rip - off . it be right that we recognise that pedicab may charge that little bit extra for those pink flashing light and the music , but we must strike the right balance between a premium and be rip off . London should be one of the good city in the world to be a tourist , but our current lax regulation around pedicabs destroy not only their image , but that of our rightfully robust standard in other sector and the experience of the UK as a whole . at present , TfL be unable to act to help ensure pedicab ’ safety , include for passenger , and their fair and transparent operation . in a city of almost 8 million people , pedicab be the only form of unregulated public transport in the capital . this Bill will allow TfL to set standard for operator and ensure that driver undergo robust criminal check . as the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster have highlight , it be long overdue , and it be necessary to allow pedicab to be a positive part of the London transport network . it be a pleasure to participate in this debate . I be grateful to the Minister for have indicate in his remark that he be open to discussion and persuasion on what I hope will be some useful amendment that can be table to improve the Bill when it reach its Committee and Report stage . I see that it will be refer to a Committee of the whole House , rather than a Public Bill Committee ; that be just as well , because if it be go to be deal with in a Committee upstairs , I be sure that I would never be select by the Committee of Selection — which be control by the Government — to participate in it . this Bill be really an allegory for this Parliament . we have thousand of illegal immigrant on our street who have jump bail or get rid of their tag ; rogue parking operator who the Government have be try to deal with for year and year ; e - bike run amok and cause mammoth problem for pedestrian in London ; and all sort of other obstruction of the highway by protester , make it very difficult for people visit London — particularly at the weekend — to go about their lawful business . it be an allegory for this Parliament that it have choose prime time on a Wednesday to discuss the burn issue of pedicab . [ interruption . ] I can not hear what my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) say from a sedentary position . my hon . friend be make an interesting speech , but would he agree that we could and should have do this back in 2018 , when my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) be the leader of Westminster Council and I introduce my private Member ' s Bill ? we could have get it do on a Friday afternoon . we could have get this do much soon than that . we could have get it do in about 2005 - 06 , when Transport for London bring forward a private Bill , include a provision to deal with this matter . however , in that Bill and in subsequent Bills , we have always encounter the difficulty that Transport for London have be unwilling — I do not think it be unable , but it be unwilling — to produce any draft regulation , so we be be ask to approve potential legislation that be blind as to what would be contain in it . it be interesting , be it not , that all these year have go by , and one might have expect by now that Transport for London would have a document with detailed draft regulation for pedicab but it have not get anywhere near that ? indeed , when I be privileged to be invite to a meeting that my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster organise , it be clear at the meeting that Transport for London be unable to produce any draft and be unable to say how long it would be before it would produce one . it be unwilling to produce a draft to inform debate on the private Member ' s Bill that my hon . friend be promote . so be it surprising that there be a lot of suspicion around this issue ? People think that the ulterior motive of Transport for London be to regulate pedicab out of existence . obviously , we can say that that be not the intention , and all the rest of it , but if the consequence of this legislation be that pedicab will be extinct in a few year ' time , we as legislator should be ask whether we really want that situation to arise . I certainly do not want that situation to arise , and I be concerned that there have be a lot of misrepresentation about the extent of the support for the Bill . in principle , there be support for the Bill , because all the regular pedicab operator would love to have a light regulatory regime to get rid of the rogue on the street . let we go back to the history of the Bill , and the proposal from many different politician from across party , organisation and business improvement district right across London , and the council in the 32 borough of London . do the hon . member believe that they , as representative of London , speak for their resident and business , would see why we need this Bill ? I see that , absolutely . I have already refer to that London Assembly Transport Committee ' s scrutiny report on the future of London ' s pedicab , which be publish in February 2005 . in that report , that committee make it quite clear that it be in favour of very light regulation of pedicab , not the heavy - handed regulation that seem to be envisage at the moment and that be certainly fear by organisation such as Cycling UK . the hon . member keep cite the 2005 report . do he appreciate that , 20 year on , the transport system in London have move on , be more diverse and be more accessible ? do he agree that regulate these pedicab will help improve the transport network for resident , business and tourist come to London alike ? I think the jury be out . I say that because Transport for London have discretion to decide , for example , whether to introduce 20 mph zone . we know that it also have discretion over whether to outlaw vehicle of a particular type , such as diesel vehicle , or to introduce ultra low emission zone . it have that discretion , but many people live in London — particularly outer London , where they be dependent on their car or van for go about their normal business — think that Transport for London have abuse its power . indeed , they have ask the Government to intervene , and that be the message that come out of the Uxbridge and South Ruislip by - election , which the hon . Lady may remember . be Transport for London to be trust ? the short answer be that it have not behave responsibly on the extension of the ULEZ charge across the whole conurbation . how do we know it be to be trust on this if we give it a blank cheque on which to write ? do the hon . Gentleman agree with I , a lifelong Londoner , that some of the measure he have outline , such as 20 mph limit , ULEZ and the congestion charge , be all benefit to help improve transport in London and air quality ? we have a major issue with air quality . when we step out from this building on to Westminster bridge in my constituency , the air quality be quite bad . we have a major issue . we be try to get more people to be active and to use public transport , but that will only happen if measure , such as the one he have outline , be introduce with the support of Londoners , the council and resident in London . do he agree ? I be afraid I do not agree with everything that the hon . Lady be say , but I agree about the desirability of have emission - free form of transport in London , and one such emission - free form of transport be the pedicab . I do not understand why the hon . Lady seem to be rely on Transport for London legislate with a heavy hand to exclude that sort of activity . I thank my hon . friend for give way , and I hope the House will forgive I for have to leave the Chamber for a few minute . do he agree that what this law be try to do be ensure not only that pedicabs become regulate , like every other form of public transport , but that they be treat in London as they be in every other part of the country ? they be stage carriage in London , but everywhere else they be hansom cab , which mean they can be regulate everywhere apart from London . the regulated Pedicabs Coalition bring together the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association , which he mention early in an intervention , as well as casino , hospitality business and resident group in Westminster that want this Bill to happen so that we have pedicab on the street , but regulated one . I hope that my hon . friend will make his own speech in due course , because I know he believe passionately about this issue . may I just refer he and other member to the briefing from Cycling UK ? my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster refer in her opening remark to Roger Geffen , the policy director for Cycling UK . the briefing he have produce have a section entitle " beyond the Bill : the need for a ' national ' regulatory framework for pedicab " . it state : " as thing currently stand , pedicab can operate in London under legislation date from 1869 , which permit the operation of Stage Carriages … conversely , in the rest of Great Britain ( I . e . outside London ) , pedicab have to operate under the same legal framework as taxi . this make it almost impossible in practice for pedicab to operate on a ply - for - hire basis outside London , because the insurance and other requirement for taxi be so onerous , and be entirely disproportionate for address the potential risk . even where local authority have be keen to support local would - be pedicab operator " , those pedicab operator have not be able to start up , because of the weight of regulation . I make that point in an intervention on the Minister . Roger Geffen then state that it be " potentially valuable " that the Secretary of State will now be able to issue guidance to TfL , but that it would be great if that guidance " could in future be extend to other non - London licensing authority , at such time as a new regulatory framework be put in place for license taxi and minicab . " he , as a cyclist , be concern that this great method of transport — a pedal - drive rickshaw — be not be use outside London for the purpose of enable people to apply for hire and travel from one place to another . that be why I think the assertion that the Bill aim not to regulate pedicab out of existence but merely to bring in a regulatory regime that outlaw the most extreme example of bad behaviour be naive . it be incumbent on Transport to London to produce a draft regulation . as we have hear , it have be at this for 20 - plus year , and even as we speak it can not produce draft of the regulation it have in mind to introduce . I put out this challenge to Transport for London , which I hope will be carry to it by my hon . friend the Minister . I do not know when the business manager will decide we will have the Bill ' s Committee and Report stage , but before we get to Committee it should bring forward a draft of the regulation that it have in mind . if it do that , we will be able to see whether our fear and suspicion , which be share by Cycling UK , be well found or wide of the mark . that be a perfectly reasonable way to proceed . it be commonplace in the House to see draft regulation before we finalise legislation , but there do not seem to be any appetite for that on the part of Transport for London . we have not even have an indication of the timescale in which transport for London wish to introduce the regulation . how much long will the good pedicab operator of London have to wait before the lightweight regulation , for which they have be campaign for so many year , be introduce ? one of my suggestion be therefore that the Government should recognise that , in the rest of the country , where a different regulatory regime relate to pedicab , they do not exist because they be regulate out of existence . if the Government wish to promote emission - free form of transport such as pedicab , why do they not get on and introduce a guidance system for transport authority and local authority outside the London area so that they can take the burden of regulation off potential entrepreneur who wish to be able to provide pedicab service in city such as Oxford , Salisbury and York , as we have hear ? if such a commitment from the Government be to come out of the Bill , it would be a really worthwhile exercise . I do not think that the Government be right to be sit on the fence in relation to e - bike and e - scooter . why be we concentrate on the small number of pedicab rather than the very much large number of e - bike and e - scooter , which be cause mayhem for many resident live in London , not to mention elsewhere in the country ? as I be sure my hon . friend know , the use of e - scooter on the highway — other than in certain pilot site — be illegal . therefore , it be not really a matter of regulation ; rather , it be a matter of enforcement . many of we would love to see much more enforcement . similarly , on e - bike , of which I use to be a regular user and owner , my hon . friend will know that there be significant regulation , not least that they be speed - limit to 15 mph . however , many manufacturer have hide in their bike somewhere the ability to override that speed limiter . similarly , that be a subject for enforcement rather than for regulation . therefore , although I appreciate his point and agree with he , I do not think it be a matter for legislation ; frankly , in London and elsewhere , it be more a matter for the police . my right hon . friend be right . so often in this place we find ourselves introduce new legislation because the legislation in place be not be enforce . my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster do not mention this , but be it not extraordinary that it take the City of Westminster so long to start use power that it already have to control " pedicab chaos " as it put it , to start prosecute rogue pedicab operator . the City of Westminster issue a press release on 20 December pride itself on successfully prosecute six pedicab operator in Westminster magistrate court , which result in fine near £ 3 , 000 . that show that law be already in place but they be not be adequately enforce , as my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) say . I agree on the safety of e - bike . tragically , a three - year - old be hit by an e - scooter on 19 July 2021 in Myatt ' s Field park in my constituency . thankfully , she do not die , but she be leave with life - change injury . there be a real issue about the safety of e - bike . do the hon . Member agree that many pedicab obstruct cycle lane and cause danger , and that be why we need clear regulation to ensure that they follow the highway code and the code of practice ? I be very much in favour of regulation where it be necessary . to take the hon . Lady ' s own council , Lambeth , I recall read in a national newspaper in the past few day that because it have not comply with regulation on street sign to prohibit entry into low - traffic neighbourhood , it have be able to fleece the motoring public of many million of pound . [ interruption . ] the hon . Lady be laugh , but it be not funny to the motorist who have suffer and pay those high penalty . it be not as though the money that Lambeth have recover through those foul mean have be reinveste into improve the road network . as someone who have the privilege — if I can call it that — of live in Lambeth , I can see with my own eye the poor state of the pavement and highway there . what the hon . Gentleman be refer to , as the Minister know , be the trial of a low - traffic neighbourhood in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Streatham ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , off Streatham High Road . that be still in its trial period and the council be consult on it . do the hon . Gentleman agree that my local authority be have to scale back on the thing that it want to do because of the cut it have face over the past 14 year ? it would be helpful be we lobby the Chancellor on a cross - party basis to fund local government adequately . I will not be draw into the Lambeth - Wandsworth comparison . when I be the leader of Wandsworth council , we help secure the low council taxis in London , while Lambeth have among the high . the hon . Lady would be well advise to keep away from the efficiency or otherwise of Lambeth Council . let I revert to the subject matter this afternoon . Roger Geffen ' s briefing have draw attention to the definition of pedicab in clause 1 ( 2 ) , which be : ' " pedicab " mean a pedal cycle , or a pedal cycle in combination with a trailer , that be construct or adapt for carry one or more passenger and be make available with a driver for hire or reward ' . the point make by Cycling UK be that a pedal cycle may be use for the delivery of good , so why should it be control under the provision in the Bill ? it may be use by somebody not ply for hire , but take a passenger in a pedicab as a result of a hire agreement enter into not from a public highway but as a private agreement . for example , hotel and hospitality centre in London may wish to use the service of pedicab as a privilege for their customer , so they can visit the west end and not have to struggle on public transport , while , at the same time , enjoy the fun of travel by pedicab . why should pedicab in that situation be outlaw under the definition in the Bill ? that be a concern . couple with that be the concern express that the plying for hire of pedicabs be too broadly draft , because it exclude private hire but would not exclude private hire , on a definition in the Bill , relate to pedicab exclusively . that be the detail relate to clause 5 . I hope my hon . friend the Minister have look at the briefing from Cycling UK , because it be very balanced and well argue . it reinforce the point make at the beginning of the debate : " Cycling UK and the London Pedicab Operators ' Association ( LPOA ) have be call for such a framework for over 20 year . have it be put in place , the ' wild west ' situation which now exist in London could have be avert . however , it need to be clear that the regulatory framework ' s objective be to support a safe and responsible pedicab sector , and not potentially to kill it off . . . the Bill as draft contain no safeguard to assure we on this point . " if my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster can provide the safeguard that will be contain in the Bill but be not in it at the moment , I be happy to give way . [ interruption . ] I think she want to intervene , but obviously she do not want to draw attention to the safeguard that Cycling UK , which she pray in aid as a supporter early on , say be miss from the Bill . my hon . friend seem to be assert that they be in the current Bill . if that be the situation , I would like to see where they be . I would not have think that that be an unreasonable request . I hesitate to intervene , but the position that use to exist be that the Government be go to do the secondary regulation . it be decide in the other place that it would be quick and well to do it through Transport for London . to criticise tfl , when this be produce only in the last few week in the other place , be a little harsh give that that be not intend when the Bill be originally publish . it be clearly the case , though , that we continue to support the industry . we can argue the toss on the briefing my hon . friend refer to , but I can assure he that it be not our intention to , as he put it , regulate this particular industry out of existence . I accept what my hon . Friend say , but if that be not the intention but it happen in practice that it be regulate out of existence , what will the Government do about it ? perhaps he will intervene and answer that question . at the moment , there be nothing in the Bill to enable the situation to be rectify . if tfl behave in the irresponsible way it have in relation to the ultra low emission zone , and appease the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association and effectively outlaw pedicab in London , what be go to be do about it ? I hear no response , but that be why proper safeguard must be write into the Bill . as for the Minister ' s point that Transport for London have only just find out about its responsibility , TfL propose its own legislation in 2005 , and I imagine that it have in mind exactly what it want to do . when my hon . friend the Members for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) and for Cities of London and Westminster produce their private member ' Bills on this subject , it be already clear that the regulation would be introduce by TfL . when we ask TfL what would be in they , we be tell , " we have not the time or the inclination to start draft the regulation now . " even as we speak , we do not know what the timescale be for the production of the regulation and the introduction of this regime . I be not sure whether the Minister say that he have read Roger Geffen ' s four - page briefing , but if he have not , I will happily share it with he after the debate . in the briefing , concern be express — and I certainly share that concern — about the Bill ' s requirement for TfL to consult " whoever it consider appropriate " . what be the point of that ? why not say something specific , such as " Transport for London must consult organisation represent pedicab operator , cyclist and pedestrian — and other , but include those " ? at present , the Bill place no obligation on TfL to consult pedicab operator , cyclist , people involve in the hospitality industry , and so on . my understanding — although the hon . member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) may be able to correct I , have carry out the role of transport committee chair at City Hall — be that TfL must undertake a statutory consultation with all the relevant party , include business and resident , on any regulation that may be introduce if the Bill be pass before this can become a proper licensing regime . I be grateful to my hon . friend , because in that case I be sure she will support an amendment , or perhaps draft it herself , to place on the face of the Bill exactly what she have say . at the moment , the discretion as to who should be consult rest solely with TfL , which I think be ridiculous . let I expand a little on the point I be make about clause 5 and the need for clarification of what be mean by " a power - assist pedicab " . Cycling UK believe that the potential pitfall could be avoid through reference to the Electrically Assisted Pedal Cycles Regulations 1983 to define the vehicle that will be exempt from the legislative requirement for private hire vehicle . I hope that the Minister will take that point on board . Cycling UK have make a number of other suggestion . it ask , for instance , what will happen about pedicab stand : " subclause 2 ( 7 ) of the Bill currently provide for TfL to make regulation to limit the place , time and / or circumstance in which pedicab may ply for hire or operate " — order . I remind the hon . Gentleman that speeche on Second Reading should not go into huge detail about the various clause , because that be obviously for Committee . I be sure that he will return to the wide issue . Madam Deputy Speaker , I take your point completely , but this be not a situation where the Bill will go into Committee upstairs , the Committee will start with a couple of evidence session with people who be interested in the Bill , and member of the Committee will look at it . this be a situation where the Government have on the Order Paper a motion that all the remain stage should be deal with in three hour . there be no indication as to how much time there will be between now and the time that those stage be timetable for this House . therefore , I think it would be helpful if I flag up in advance some of my concern about this Bill , to which I be refer in this second read speech . as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , a second reading speech can extend to thing that be not include in the Bill , which be why I be refer to thing that could be include in the Bill but which be not currently include — that be my intent . that be extremely helpful . the hon . Gentleman be very experienced and be on the Panel of Chairs , and he understand a lot about procedure . although he be flag up issue , too much detail about the clause would be inappropriate , but I be sure he be come back to his main point . I just remind he that I have two other speaker to get in . fortunately , because there have not be much government business today , we have a reasonable period of time for discuss the Bill . to summarise the point I be seek to make , Cycling UK say that the Bill grant power for TfL to make regulation to limit this , that and the other , but there be no power to require TfL to provide place where pedicab can have stand . again , that seem to be rather asymmetrical or illiberal . my final point be about the concern that Cycling UK express about the need for consistency between civil offence relate to the use of pedicabs and motor vehicle . Cycling UK refer specifically to clause 3 ( 5 ) ( a ) . I will not refer to that in detail , take your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I think there be sufficient meat in this Bill for we to have a very lively discussion in Committee and on Report . however , I hope that in advance of that , we will get a clear view from the Government , and particularly from the Minister , about whether it be essentially their intent to stand by idly while give power to Transport for London , which do not exactly have a good record on all this , to exercise what the Government hope will be its good intent to facilitate a high - quality pedicab regime in London . we know jolly well that quite a lot of the people who be concern about pedicab in the city stop short of actually ban they altogether or introduce regulation that would have exactly the same effect . I wholeheartedly welcome this legislation and the step take by the Government to introduce a licensing regime for the only form of transport in London that be still unregulated . I hope to see the development of the pedicabs industry across London , provide employment and entrepreneurial opportunity as well as a safe , affordable and carbon - free form of transport , especially for those who be unable to utilise other form of active travel . in order to ensure that regulation can promote the use of pedicab , rather than merely suppress the negative aspect of the unregulated trade , it be important to ensure that sufficient care and attention be pay to how such a trade might operate . the Liberal Democrats urge the Government and TfL to ensure that the relevant council and user group , such as the one in my constituency of Richmond Park , be adequately consult to ensure that the new regime be effective and that regulation be implement as smoothly as possible . my particular interest in pedicab arise from their use as a means of transport in part of the capital that be currently close to motor traffic . I refer of course to Hammersmith bridge in my constituency in particular . we be shortly to mark the fifth anniversary of its closure to motor traffic , although I can assure the Minister that this milestone will not be celebrate with any particular joy among the community of Barnes , East Sheen or mortlake , or indeed wider afield , who have suffer ever since from the consequence of appal traffic congestion . there have yet to be a complete analysis of the full economic consequence to the capital of the continue closure of the bridge , but even if there be one , it could not encompass all the miss opportunity that my constituent have suffer : the pass trade miss by small business in Barnes ; the employment opportunity that could not be take up ; and the educational , social and cultural event that have to be miss because people be unable to cross the river . during the 2019 election campaign , various conservative politician film themselves at the bridge , promise to get it fix , yet here we be , stare down the barrel of another general election and no progress have be make . the Government have remain shamefully silent on their plan to fix the bridge , despite have be in possession of a business case from Hammersmith and Fulham Council for the past year . however , adversity breed innovation , and my enterprise constituent in Barnes have not sit by passively while be let down by the Government . in 2021 a temporary pedicab service be put in place across Hammersmith bridge by the Barnes Community Association . in the six month that it be operational , the scheme carry more than 9 , 000 people over the Thames and be a lifeline for those member of my constituency who can not access the shop , hospital and other service in Hammersmith while the bridge be closed . this temporary scheme demonstrate that there be demand for transport across Hammersmith bridge beyond cycling and walking , especially among old people and those with limited mobility . the ability to cross the bridge connect people with the economic and social opportunity deny to they by reliance on a lengthy and increasingly unreliable bus route . should this legislation pass , I urge minister to work with TfL to create a new pedicab service across the bridge that could serve as a model for other scheme in London . I have meet Transport Ministers , official from the Mayor ' s office and local councillor , all of whom express support for the idea , and I hope the Minister will now publicly commit to work with TfL to renew effort to get a pedicab service up and run across Hammersmith bridge , should this legislation be enact . I believe that if a pedicab service could be put in place initially to serve those who wish to cross Hammersmith bridge , it could work as a proof of concept to enable the service to be extend to other part of London where the promotion of active travel have be hinder by the need to cater for those with reduced mobility . I would like to acknowledge the contribution of Liberal Democrat colleague in the other place , where this legislation originate . I particularly welcome the fact that this Bill will provide the framework to address not only the noise pollution often cause by pedicab in London but the safety issue for both passenger and pedestrian that be often link to the driving of these vehicle . far , I be pleased that we will be able to crack down on the extortionate fare often charge by pedicab . there have be report of some journey of only 10 minute result in fare of hundred of pound for the passenger . this legislation will therefore be useful not just in enable the setting up of new pedicab scheme but in regulate those already in existence . I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the outstanding work of Liberal Democrat London Assembly Member Caroline Pidgeon , who have campaign for year on the issue of pedicab in our capital as well as be an effective voice for londoner on so many issue relate to crime and transport . she have give great service to the people of London in her 16 year as an Assembly Member and she will be much miss when she stand down in May . this legislation be a welcome step towards set up a framework to regulate pedicab usage in London , and the Liberal Democrats will be support the Bill today . my constituent in Richmond Park will particularly welcome the opportunity to make use of a clean , safe , good - value transport option to access the north side of the Thames , and I hope that the Government will continue to approach this legislation in an enable , rather than suppress , spirit . my constituent be still demand answer on the long - term future of the bridge , and I will continue to press for they , but a short - term solution to the problem of access will none the less be welcome . some year ago , as I emerge from one of the watering hole in Soho that I use to frequent before the child come along , I happen upon a scene where an inebriated individual be stand in front of a pedicab , sway backwards and forwards . as I pass , I hear he say to the pedicab driver , " how much to Guildford , mate ? " , at which point there be an exchange that I do not overhear . the man get into the pedicab , and off it go . I have no idea what happen to that poor chap or whether he make it to Guildford in the pedicab from the fringe of Leicester Square , but I doubt it . it occur to I after the event that what probably happen , as we have hear from other member , be effectively a sort of mug . this chap , in his relaxed state , be likely to have be relieve of quite a lot of money for a service that he have stumble into in his confusion , probably with a sense of good humour , adventure or desperation to get home . it strike I that we really need to do something about the pedicab system in central London . I do not want to detain the House too long . I feel like an SNP Member comment on legislation that affect only England in that , like my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , there be no pedicab in my constituency , although I look forward to his amendment on Report that would allow the relaxation of licensing so that pedicab can emerge in Bournemouth and Christchurch . I be sure that campaign will feature on his election leaflet come the big day later this year . notwithstanding my imposing on the debate , I have antecedence in London as a Westminster councillor and a deputy Mayor for eight year . I support this Bill for four reason . first , I regard myself as an economic liberal . I think we should avoid as much regulation as possible to allow the private sector to flourish and , frankly , to allow grown adult to freely enter into contract between themselves . however , more important to I be that , in any industry or economic area , there should be a level playing field . we have to accept that these vehicle operate in London by dint of a strange loophole in rather ancient legislation . when Airbnb arrive in London in a big way , all the hotel , which be very heavily regulated and have significant insurance and maintenance cost , be right to complain that an unregulated competitor be enter the market and that the Government have to take a decision . " either you regulate Airbnb the same as we or you regulate none of we and allow we all to compete fairly . " that notion of a level playing field be key . when I be at City Hall , I support the arrival in London of Uber and other relate taxi service on the basis that there should be a level playing field with the black cab service . I feel that if there be not a level playing field , black cab should have some privilege that Uber and other do not have . the job of the Government or the regulatory authority be to balance those right , privilege and regulation to make sure that all competition be fair . at the moment , as a number of member have say , it be not fair that pedicab be not regulate in the same way as other cab . secondly , although many of we love and cherish the slight chaos of the centre of our capital city , it require order from time to time . in particular , it require order on the street . anyone who drive in London on a regular basis will know that it be hazardous at the good of time , not least because the growth in cycling and the fact we now have to drive at 20 mph mean there be a lot of overtake and chaotic behaviour . motorist have to keep their eye peel at all time for people suddenly swerve across the road , very often take their life in their hand . we need a sense of order , particularly in the densely build centre of town , and it strike I that these pedicab do not contribute to a sense of order . have have close shave with a couple of pedicab over the year , I can say that they be often dangerously drive and badly park . they block the road and pavement , which , as my hon . friend the Member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) say , cause problem for emergency vehicle that need access to pedestrianise area . we need a sense of order , and this Bill will achieve that . thirdly , successful city centre — and London be a particularly successful city centre — do not happen by accident . they happen because they be curate . when I be a Westminster councillor at City Hall , we be very careful to preserve the ability of resident to live in central London and to ensure that the west end in particular should be a mixed residential and commercial area . that be key to its success , and if there be a sense of nuisance , which many pedicab be — will have hear about the music and the light and all the rest of it — that will be just another straw break the camel ' s back to drive the resident out of central London . if we want the west end to stay vibrant and successful — the powerhouse , frankly , of the economy that it be — we can not allow it to turn into the City , where there be no resident and it be dead after 9 o ' clock and there be no one there at the weekend . that be just not the way to curate a city centre . curate a city centre be an art as much as a science , and the municipal authority have an obligation to allow a certain amount of chaos and scruff . I have lament the municipal Domestos , for example , that have be pour over Spitalfields by the City Corporation . it have destroy that asset for the City and it be now just another dull shopping centre fill with chain . I look to company such as Soho Estates , which be a great custodian of the area around Soho Square ; it carefully curate who occupy its property in order to maintain both the reputation and the character of Soho as a slightly louche , shall we say , part of the capital , which all of we have enjoy from time to time , mostly in our youth . that curation require tool with which we can control some activity , and that include pedicab . the fourth reason I support the legislation be the issue of crime . there be , unfortunately , a litany of story of crime be commit by people operate these cab , whether rip off tourist , put passenger in danger or use their pedicab to run drug . they be not unrelated to the criminal fraternity and we need to be able to root out those people and have the control to remove they , because in the end this be all about make money , and if we remove they and leave space for the reputable operator , we will have a much well sense of safety for the public in central London . I acknowledge the hesitancy of my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch about regulation , and in normal circumstance would share it , but we must bear in mind the notion of a level playing field and of a service that operate within the capital that be reputable around the world and do not feature on social medium for tourist in other country as one of the rip - off they must avoid — a bit like how so many italian city be now advertise on social medium as infest with pickpocket . we have to think about the reputation of our city internationally and indeed its impact nationally . that be why I be very keen to support this legislation and have be a long - stand supporter of this step since my time at City Hall . I call shadow Minister . this have be an interesting debate — some contribution have be interesting in a good way , some perhaps less so — and there have be broad agreement , with one exception , that this Bill be a thoroughly good thing . I be pleased to see power finally be grant to Transport for London to tackle the challenge and difficulty of unregulated pedicab , which we have hear describe by a number of member , from across London in particular . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Cities of London and Westminster ( Nickie Aiken ) for her work on this issue over many year and I be grateful to she for quote the view of the London Pedicab Operators Association and its call for regulation , show that the industry itself be keen to see action on behalf of operator who want to do the right thing . I also congratulate the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) on finally get his dear wish grant and see this regulation come to fruition . perhaps I be overstate that , but he have play a part , include through promote a private member ' s Bill . when my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) be extoll the virtue of Westminster bridge , I do wonder whether she be go to start quote William Wordsworth : " Earth have not anything to show more fair " . that is , of course , a line that everybody be aware of , but perhaps pedicab spoil the view very slightly . she make good point about the threat to tourist and the importance of safety for passenger and , indeed , for driver , which be include in the legislation . she , along with a number of other member , mention the noise nuisance as well . my parliamentary twin , the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) — he and I share the same date of birth — finish the debate with what I would loosely describe as an occasional dose of over - disclosure about his own past , but he make a very good case for the legislation as well . we have some disagreement from the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who seem to think that this be a sitting Friday and that he should take his characteristic approach of talk out a private Member ' s Bill , which be why , as the Minister point out , we be here and the Government have have to finally bring the Bill forward . the hon . Gentleman be be a little unfair to my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who make a good point about our try to understand where this legislation could go . as I understand it , TfL publish a framework for licensing pedicab back in 2022 . it might be helpful if the Minister be to circulate that framework to member when we get to Committee . I be grateful to the right hon . member for his intervention . the wide point be that the hon . member for Christchurch be raise thing that really belong in Committee , but he will have his chance to raise the matter that the right hon . Member mention , as it will be a Committee of the whole House . it be good news that we will close the legal loophole that exempt pedicab from be define as taxi under current law , leave pedicab as the only form of unregulated public transport in London . my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield ( Simon Lightwood ) set out why Labour view the Bill as so important . he address the case of overcharge . we have have TfL ' s own evidence of collision that involve pedicab result in personal injury . there be 24 driver incident between 2018 and the end of August 2023 , include road obstruction , driver conduct , and six sexual offence . those case , alongside the overcharging and the noise nuisance , demonstrate why it be so important that action be take to regulate pedicab . we have an important opportunity here to improve the safety of passenger , and of all road user in central London , and to help the tourist economy . the Bill strike the right balance between the enjoyment that pedicab can offer and the protection of the public . today ' s debate prompt the question of when the Government plan to bring forward their long - promise transport Bill , which need to be wide - reach and to extend beyond London , and include regulation on other neglect issue such as e - scooter and e - bike . for today , though , this legislation on pedicabs be long overdue and I look forward to it progress through the House . with the leave of the House , have open this debate , I shall now bring it to a close . we have have a short , occasionally feisty , and certainly interesting journey down memory lane . I would like to mention all those colleague who have endeavour to bring this legislation before this House and to pass it on previous occasion . I congratulate all colleague who have attempt to bring in this legislation through private member ' Bills . clearly , we have learn an awful lot about certain individual member . I enjoy hear from the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) who probably have a t - shirt — obviously create in Soho — that say , " I be louche in my youth " . the long and the short of it be that he make good and fair point . I genuinely believe that , even though we be all economically liberal and want to see a thriving , bustling , entrepreneurial London , there have to be some degree of order and a fair playing field across all form of transport . there be a legitimate issue to address in term of crime and the way in which this city be perceive if we do not take action . it be right that , on a cross - party basis , we be take action . I thank all colleague for their contribution , although I will not go through they in detail . a fair point be make about noise . I say that have spend the good part of a month of my life in St Thomas ' Hospital , where I experience the impact of the noise outside , and have meet many representative of hotel , business , restaurant and theatre , who be genuinely concerned at the unregulated noise be provide by some of these operator . the fair point be also make that people need a living , breathe residential city of London and that that be simply not possible if we have unregulate noise . People be literally move out because of this problem and that be not acceptable . my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) rightly make legitimate and genuine point , start with the fundamental principle of ask , " what be the end objective here ? " that be a totally legitimate thing to do and we should not in any way decry his robust attempt to get to the heart and soul of these point — I welcome his do so . I very much take on board the effort he wish I to make to allay his concern prior to Committee stage . I wish to put a couple of other point on the record . as my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire make clear in his brief remark , TfL produce an outline , in January 2022 , of a potential licensing framework , which be in excess of 10 page . clearly , it would have to be refresh , because this legislation be come forward and , for example , noise regulation be add in the other place barely week ago . we must also take into account that clause 7 set out the requirement for guidance , which be a matter for the Secretary of State . the Secretary of State give update good practice guidance for licensing authority outside London in November last year . it specifically state that where there be a " local interest " in provide pedicab service , licensing authority should make " adjustment " to licensing requirement to " accommodate " such service . the whole point and purpose of that be to make it easy to bring those thing in . clearly , clause 7 provide a capability for the Secretary of State to bring in such guidance . I endorse the point that have be make about e - bike and e - scooter : enforcement be the key issue on an ongoing basis . I make the final point that we will debate the Bill in Committee , and I propose to write to all member who have contribute today to set out some of those point in a bit more detail . I genuinely commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Pedicabs ( London ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee of the whole House shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 5 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . Pedicabs ( London ) Bill [ Lords ] ( money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . Pedicabs ( London ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise the charging of fee under the Act . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make and question propose , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of any amount refund in respect of any tax or duty in accordance with arrangement make under the Act . — ( Nigel Huddleston . ) I rise to make a few brief comment about this money resolution . let I begin by thank all those who work with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . I know that I be not the only member who have benefit from its expertise , experience , network , contact and global stature , which be recognise and value both here in the UK and across the Commonwealth . I have rely on its support on many occasion . I have recently visit Ghana and Canada with the cpa , and I have work closely with our overseas territory , Crown dependency and other member of the Commonwealth family . it be crucial that we build those link and strengthen they . at a time of deep global uncertainty , our relation - ship through the Commonwealth , and indeed inter - parliamentary relationship , be crucial . when it come to both cpa UK and , as this money resolution apply to , the cpa as a whole , the secretariat , which be host here , play a critical role ; and I pay tribute to the former Member of this House , our friend Stephen Twigg , who be the Secretary - General . I also commend the work of the International Committee of the Red Cross , which obviously play a critical role globally , work tirelessly and meticulously to support civilian work in conflict and war zone around the world , and to uphold key responsibility in relation to the law of war and humanitarian law . as we know , the icrc have play a critical role for many decade . on the substance of today ' s money resolution , the Opposition fully support these move . as I understand it — perhaps the Minister will correct I — the money resolution do not lead to any substantial expenditure . on the privilege and immunity that will be grant by the Bill , any expenditure will be cover in relation to the work that already go on around similar international organisation . it be worth reference that the cpa have experience significant issue , with concern be raise about whether it will receive these important privilege and immunity . question have be raise , include at recent meeting of the cpa , so it be important that we get on with this as soon as possible , and give it the support it need in term of a change of status . otherwise , there could be a risk , for example , of the cpa secretariat be move outside the UK , which would be a huge retrograde step . it be critical that we give the icrc the specific privilege and immunity that other state grant , so that its confidential and neutral , important work can be carry out . I have hear from both the cpa and the icrc about these matter , and how important this small but significant change in legislation be to they . indeed , I have visit the ICRC headquarters in Geneva and listen to important development about its work in critical zone around the world . as I say , the Opposition fully support these move . the money resolution be an important next step . we need these change to the status and operation of these organisation , bring we in line with other country and allow the organisation to do their work . time be of the essence , so I hope that the Government can move swiftly . the motion be about send taxpayer ' money to the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association , which I fully endorse , and the International Committee of the Red Cross . I will spend a minute or two talk about the icrc , because all british taxpayer be contribute . the icrc play a noble and important role in conflict around the world . that be indisputable . it would , however , be remiss of I not to reflect on the strong criticism that it have face in recent month for its abject failure to access the hostage — then , more than 200 — who have be cruelly hold by Hamas in unimaginable condition . we should not forget that in 1939 the president of the icrc approach the German Red Cross to arrange for visitation with Jews deport to Poland , and he be meet with a refusal by the nazi german authority . from then on in world war two , the icrc opt for a strategy of no long address the question of Jews directly . we all know the tragic consequence of that decision , for which the icrc have — or have — retrospectively apologised , and rightly so . follow that apology , his Majesty ' s Government , and other government around the world , have support the International Committee of the Red Cross with british taxpayer ' money , and have do so for year , but today family in the United Kingdom — and there be family in the United Kingdom whose relative be be hold hostage — as well as family from Israel and around the world whose loved one have be miss now for almost five month , understand the history of the Red Cross as it relate to the Nazis in world war two , for obvious reason , and it be painful . as a consequence , this most recent failure by the icrc will never be understand and be likely , I be sorry to say , never to be forgive . when question about that by the Prime Minister of Israel , the ICRC president , Spoljaric Egger , say that apply pressure to Hamas " be not go to work " . as can be imagine , that be inconceivably frustrating for Israel ' s leadership and for jewish people around the world , particularly in this country . Israel ' s Foreign Minister at the time , Eli Cohen , say that the Red Cross have no right to exist if it could not reach the hostage , determine their condition and provide they with medical treatment and medication . he add : " every day that pass be another failure for the Red Cross . " even more shocking be a meeting with hostage family . someone from the icrc go to meet hostage family , and the Red Cross respond to plea to deliver medication to the hostage with reprimand of the hostage family , tell they to think about the Palestinians . Imagine say to a recent rape victim , " can you think about other ? " in the circumstance , perhaps it be not surprising that a report mathematical breakdown of the icrc ' s statement on social medium show that 77 % of they solely condemn Israel , while only 7 % solely condemn Hamas — an 11 time difference , which surely point to a worrying trend towards political bias in the icrc . bear in mind its second world war history , that be deeply shame . criticism of the organisation be mount across the world , as well as in Israel . near - weekly rally have take place outside the icrc office in the United States since 7 October to demand that the Red Cross meet individual in the Gaza strip . we be ask his Majesty ' s Government for taxpayer ' money to go to the icrc . we should take the demand about the hostage hold by Hamas seriously and urgently , because it be the icrc ' s distinguished reputation that I be talk about now . I applaud its good work in so many region around the world ; I just want it to do good work for jewish people as well as for people around the world . there be too many example of international organisation and institution , and national one , that do excellent work everywhere else except where Jews be concerned . it be for the icrc ' s reputation that I speak now . where it do such excellent work internationally in other case , I want it to do excellent work for jewish people , who be be torture , with child be keep hostage . this issue have lead to deep - seat feeling of frustration and disappointment . I will conclude by say that I be sure that his Majesty ' s Treasury and his Majesty ' s Ministers in the Treasury will think carefully , as they always do — I know that they will — about spend taxpayer ' money . I thank the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) for their contribution . I have hear my right hon . and learn Friend , as I be sure have the icrc . the purpose of the Bill be to enable the Government to treat the cpa and the icrc in a manner comparable to that of an international organisation . my right hon . and learn Friend make some broad comment and , as I say , the Government have hear they and I be sure that the icrc have hear they . I thank the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth for his comment , particularly the way in which he , too , recognise and applaud the work of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . its purpose and role be recognise across the House and around the world . there will be further debate on the Bill in Committee , so I will end my comment there . question put and agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , term and Conditions of Employment that the draft Paternity Leave ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 10 January , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Pensions that the draft Occupational Pension Schemes ( Collective Money Purchase Schemes ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 14 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) question agree to . Petition Petition - Southall Crown Post Office I rise to present a petition for Southall Crown post office on behalf of the resident of Ealing , Southall . Southall Crown post office be be close against the will of local resident . this afternoon , along with my constituent , I deliver the Communication Workers Union and Ealing labour petition to Post Office Ltd ' s chief executive officer , Nick Read . he refuse to meet we . as they provide a vital public service , we urge the House of Commons to protect this and other office of the Crown post office network , especially in the light of the maladministration of the Post Office expose by the Horizon scandal . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Post Office Limited and Nick Read CEO to ensure that Southall Crown Post Office be not close . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Ealing Southall in the county of Middlesex , declare that Southall Crown Post Office should not be close by Post Office Limited . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with Post Office Limited and Nick Read CEO to ensure that Southall Crown Post Office be not close . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p002918 ] British Justice System and International Corruption Cases Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) 5 . 6 pm this be the third debate on oligarch and lawfare that I have lead in the past two year . it be unfortunate that it be necessary to return once again to this matter , but it be just as crucial as ever . in the last three decade , London have be swamp by a tidal wave of money that have pour in from Russia , other ex - soviet state , China , and other corrupt regime around the world . cash - hungry charity , university and political party have gladly accept that money , and have look at those deep - pocket oligarch with green - eyed gullibility . all have show an excessive willingness to overlook the misbehaviour of the people supply the money . my previous debate on this subject be in response to the bullying of a former Member of this place , Charlotte Leslie , by someone who have seek to take advantage of this cash - for - access attitude : Mohamed Amersi . over the past decade , Amersi have set out to purchase a reputation in the british establishment , seek to be know as an upright citizen and philanthropist . he even have a name for it : " access capitalism . " however , his fame have turn to notoriety , as more and more worrying information have come to light about his past . he train his sight on Ms Leslie because of her proper exercise of due diligence in regard to he . that come after he attempt to take control of the Conservative Middle East Council , which Ms Leslie run , and then in turn seek to set up his own rival organisation . amersi accuse Ms Leslie of libel for what she have say about he , in an excessively long , draw - out and expensive legal case that also encompass a wrongful claim of a breach of datum protection rule . but his campaign against she go far beyond the case itself ; he set out to destroy her reputation . there be lie that she sexually blackmail man ; the collection of intimate detail about her family ; physical intimidation ; threaten letter send by notorious legal firm Carter - Ruck to journalist and mp , include myself , claim that Ms Leslie consort with sanctioned individual ; and an obsessive , misogynistic and ultimately defamatory hate campaign conduct on social medium by amersi himself . Ms Leslie have at last be vindicate in court , with Mr Justice Nicklin note amersi ' s " exorbitant approach to the litigation " , and the fact that " subject a person to successive civil claim can be a hallmark of abusive conduct " . amersi clearly hope that he could break Ms Leslie ' s resolve and force she to concede through bullying , intimidation and the threat of financial ruin . he fail . he also seek to intimidate a current Member of this place , the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) , who have likewise try to shed light on his dealing . thank to those two people and the relentless work of journalist such as Tom Burgis , upon whose new book " Cuckooland " I will draw today , we know that amersi be deeply immerse in a twilight world of backroom bribe , creative accountancy , and a whole lot of smoke and mirror . that be why he be so desperate to suppress Ms Leslie ' s claim : he do not want to be expose and have his carefully craft public image — that of a savvy entrepreneur and generous philanthropist — shred . with that in mind , a close look at his past be warrant . the name of the regime that Amersi have aid , abet and enriched make for a shopping list of dictatorship and autocracy . first , let we look at Russia — as with so many tale of corruption and kleptocracy , the story start in Russia . in 2005 , Amersi be an adviser in a deal with the danish lawyer and businessman Jeffrey Galmond . Galmond claim to own a large swathe of the russian telecom market . in reality , though , he be say to be a frontman for the russian telecom Minister and Putin ally Leonid Reiman , who use Galmond to exercise his control over the sector . that be confirm by a swiss arbitration tribunal in 2006 , which note that Reiman arrange deal to " misappropriate " russian state asset " for his personal enrichment " . it seem likely that amersi ' s payment for the deal — $ 4 million — come from the proceed of crime against the russian people , funnel via Galmond . in an affidavit issue by Galmond the year before the deal Amersi advise on , Galmond acknowledge the existence of allegation about his relationship with Reiman . we know that Amersi would have have a copy of that affidavit , which surely should have raise some question in his mind , yet the deal go ahead and Amersi get his $ 4 million . it be a straightforward case of a fixer be reward for facilitate a deal . of course , Amersi deny know the truth about Galmond , but we have to ask ourselves how ignorant someone work on such deal could really have be . it have be clear for year that the post - soviet regime in Russia be a kleptocracy . indeed , Alexander Litvinenko be murder in 2006 because he have be investigate post - soviet corruption . however , Russia be not the only place of interest . I also want to focus on a few place where Amersi have be active : Uzbekistan , Nepal and Kazakhstan . in those place , Amersi work as a representative of TeliaSonera , a large swedish telecom firm . his pay be an astonishing £ 19 , 000 a day . that give we an idea of what TeliaSonera think he bring to the company , but the question have to be ask : what on earth could Amersi possibly bring to the table to justify a salary of nearly £ 7 million a year ? in Uzbekistan , the deal Amersi be involve in lead to a finding of criminal activity . in essence , TeliaSonera — the company Amersi work for — agree to buy a company control by the President of Uzbekistan ' s daughter for a hugely inflate price in order to gain access to the uzbek market . that company and its Uzbek subsidiary later admit that it have pay " more than $ 331 million in bribe to an uzbek official " . that be corruption 101 : pay a bribe by vastly overpay in a business deal that ultimately profit member of a corrupt regime . the American Department of Justice confirm that TeliaSonera " corruptly build a lucrative telecommunications business in Uzbekistan , use bribe payment wire around the world through account here in New York City . " as a result of all this , various judicial authority end up impose fine of nearly $ 1 billion on TeliaSonera in 2017 . amersi plead ignorance — if we believe his version of event , he have no idea that TeliaSonera be craft a massive bung for a corrupt post - soviet regime . however , Amersi know that the uzbek businessman with whom TeliaSonera be deal run a telecom company that , accord to a memo that Amersi have see , be control by affiliate of the uzbek President ' s daughter . that will be something of a theme in these case : amersi say that he could not possibly have know , but then be expose by the documentary evidence . the pattern be that of a specialist in shady dealing , and it be for that specialism that TeliaSonera be pay he nearly £ 7 million a year . amersi ' s work for TeliaSonera extend to Nepal , where he help that company gain access to the telecom market . at the time , Nepal be control by a corrupt Maoist regime . in this sphere , Amersi facilitate a deal with nepalese business tycoon Ajeya Raj Sumargi , which involve many million of dollar find its way to Sumargi . however , it be not really sumargi whose friendship TeliaSonera seek ; it be that of the corrupt Maoist Government . that much be clear from a 2013 report commission by TeliaSonera and carry out by private intelligence specialist Control Risks , which note that its source believe Sumargi " handle and invest unaccounte money for various Maoist leader . " Control Risks far report that Sumargi ' s relationship with lead nepalese politician , and now Prime Minister , Prachanda " extend beyond the realm of business " . it appear Sumargi even buy Prachanda a house in his sister - in - law ' s name . the report also note exist allegation of bribery and corruption against Sumargi , and claim of " unethical or illegal business practice " . even after this report , Amersi urge TeliaSonera to maintain its relationship with Sumargi , which it do to the tune of million of dollar . yet another example of this pattern be find in Kazakhstan , where Amersi facilitate a large questionable business deal to the benefit of a banker accuse of be a front for the corrupt Kazakh regime . both TeliaSonera and Amersi be handsomely reward for this . once again , Amersi will claim he could not possibly have know of this corruption , but this be a clear pattern of behaviour . this be a man who know exactly what he be do . as I have say , in all these case amersi maintain his innocence . in fact , he tell Mr Burgis that he would only deem a potential business partner to be corrupt if there be 100 % proof — a high bar , of course , than that of a criminal court , and a bar rarely reach , but never reach if you always look the other way . a report by the highly respected legal firm Norton Rose Fulbright , commission by TeliaSonera in the wake of its corruption scandal , note that the " nature of the service and the relationship provide " by Amersi be " not transparent , it appear often deliberately so . " it state that , in his dealing with TeliaSonera , Amersi " be take no obvious risk " , and do not have the kind of overhead associate with an investment bank , yet be be pay like one . throughout the report , Amersi be refer to as Mr " XY " , if member care to read it . the report note that in some case he be apparently pay twice for provide the same service , at one point receive a fee of $ 30 million . it also highlight back - to - back payment arrangement — a classic laundering exercise — whereby TeliaSonera would pay his company , and his company would then pay the third party in question the same amount . I would like to turn to amersi ' s relationship with the british legal system , which be the core of this . much have be say about this in the past , and I do not want to repeat what I and other have say in this House , but there be one aspect we must focus on , and it relate to amersi ' s legal case against Charlotte Leslie . that be one of the key strategic lawsuit against public participation that we talk about when we raise the slapp campaign back in January 2022 . in a hearing in this case in June last year , the preside judge , Mr Justice Nicklin , ask both side to state what cost they have incur in fight the case to that point . Ms Leslie ' s team provide the information , but Mr Amersi ' s lawyer fail or refuse to do so . this be rather odd : as Justice Nicklin point out , amersi ' s lawyer be decline to provide information that be already in the public domain . as he put it : " would you help I with how you can maintain a claim of confidentiality when you have give an interview to a newspaper in which you have tell the newspaper how much your cost be ? " that interview from June 2021 be with Tom Burgis and publish in the Financial Times . the lawyer ’ response in court be to say that Burgis ' s reporting be inaccurate and misrepresent the truth : the figure quote by Burgis — £ 300 , 000 — be wrong , and Amersi have never say it . in fact , however , the transcript of the interview show exactly what he say : " £ 260 , 000 worth of cost , right ? nearly £ 300 , 000 now , after the DPA " — Data Protection Act — " filing ' against Ms Leslie . " amersi go on to confirm the £ 300 , 000 figure in an email to the Private Eye journalist Richard Brooks in 2021 , and his lawyer — from the notorious firm Carter - Ruck — do the same in a threatening letter they send to the Financial Times in 2022 . yet in court , amersi ' s lawyer tell Mr Justice Nicklin that the cost have " not be reveal to Mr Burgis " , which be a lie . amersi claim in a swear witness statement that he " do not say that my legal cost be approach £ 300 , 000 " , which be also a lie . in short , Burgis ' s reporting be correct , and Amersi and his lawyer know that when they tell the court it be not . I be not a lawyer , but that would appear to I to be perjury . a picture emerge of an attempt to avoid justice by obscure the truth . indeed , it be not only the court system that Mr Amersi have seek to bend his will ; he have attempt to buy his way into the british establishment and , worryingly , he have have some success . amersi have manage to recast himself as a philanthropist and a benefactor , rather than the shady political fixer for corrupt politician that he really be . he have donate to charity , academic institution and the Conservative party , and apparently he now intend to donate to Labour . clearly , he will do whatever he can to get influence . the british establishment be clearly vulnerable . there be a green - eyed gullibility at the top of our society , with institution happy to hoover up cash without ask question . I be afraid that the origin of that vulnerability date back to the Blair year , when a tendency to overlook inconvenient truth about wealthy donor become embed , but it have to be say that it do not improve with subsequent government either . indeed , the sad truth be that Amersi be just one of many people who take advantage of our freedom to enrich themselves and to dodge accountability . I welcome that the action the Government have take to make it hard for oligarch and their enabler to bend our justice system to their will , but there be much more work to be do to ensure that british justice be the enemy of these corrupt individual , and not a tool for achieve their wicked end . the Government be properly start to change the law on slapp , but to deal with current misbehaviour , we need to enforce the law that already exist to protect ordinary british citizen . there must also be more scrutiny of such people ' s attempt to buy their way to a good reputation . although I have set out to detail an accurate account of amersi ' s behaviour base on extensive documentation , it be for the appropriate legal body to come to a decision on his innocence or guilt . however , we know that amersi facilitate corrupt deal . the repeat nature of the murky practice involve be strike , and he put Charlotte Leslie through year of persecution and torture for her due diligence , in what may have amount — in my view , it do — to criminal harassment . the Bribery Act 2010 be clear that it be an offence for a british citizen to bribe a foreign public official , no matter where in the world that action take place . Mr Amersi be a british citizen , and he must obey british law . his dealing in the former Soviet Union and Nepal be therefore surely a matter for the National Crime Agency to consider . furthermore , the Metropolitan police must now consider whether the action against Charlotte Leslie constitute criminal harassment , and the judiciary should consider the question of perjury that I outline a moment or two ago . I will send copy of the Hansard for today ' s debate to all those agency . I know that the Solicitors Regulation Authority be already review a complaint about the conduct of Carter - Ruck in these matter . the very due diligence that Ms Leslie have be attack for be exactly what we need when it come to people like Amersi . we must ensure that it happen , and that it be not prevent by the kind of bullying deploy by Mr Amersi . all this be a test case for how we handle corruption and cronyism in our country . it be imperative we meet that test if London be not to become a global capital for sleaze . I be grateful for the opportunity to take part in this debate , and I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Haltemprice and Howden ( Sir David Davis ) for have secure it . he have be an exemplary advocate on the challenge that corruption pose to the rule of law and freedom of speech . my right hon . friend have raise some serious issue . as he will know , investigation be conduct independently of his Majesty ' s Government , and we be unable to speculate or comment specifically on any individual allegation . this debate engage issue of fundamental importance to our democracy and value . we must confront the reality that , while our justice system stand as a beacon of fairness and equality for many , the corrosive effect of corruption can undermine justice here and around the world . in acknowledge that challenge , we affirm our commitment to uphold the principle of justice and to ensure that the rule of law remain steadfast . corruption can threaten our national security and prosperity through a slow erosion of trust in institution at home and overseas . development be slow when poor nation have their resource drain away , which hamper their ability to mobilise revenue and facilitate growth and investment while undermine wide effort to reduce poverty . at its most extreme , corruption can fuel state capture , where private interest trump the public interest as corrupt actor take over the state institution and decision - make process to serve their own agenda . while instance of corruption may be isolate , their impact reverberate far beyond the confine of individual case , undermine public trust and confidence in the legal system as a whole . the british justice system have in recent year see the rise of strategic litigation against public participation , which have a chilling effect on freedom of expression and civic engagement , deter individual and organisation from exercise their right to free speech for fear of legal reprisal . we know that free speech be critical in the fight against corruption , for it enable truth tell where corrupt actor rely on precisely the opposite . the climate of fear and self - censorship that slapp create lead to stifle public debate , undermine the robust exchange that we hold as essential . fortunately , we can point to progress in counter slapp in this jurisdiction . we be the first jurisdiction to legislate at the national level to combat slapp relate to economic crime in last year ' s Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act . work be also under way to ensure that new procedural rule be design to give the legislation effect , such that slapp defendant have a fair fight when confront with abusive threat or proceeding . just last week , the Government be proud to announce their support for a private Member ' s Bill on slapp introduce by the hon . member for Caerphilly ( Wayne David ) , whom I congratulate on his commitment to challenge abusive litigation that undermine british justice . the Bill follow the approach set out in the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act , which as hon . member know , introduce new define characteristic in statute to empower judge task with identify these case , an early dismissal mechanism that cut short case with improper purpose at their heart , and a cost protection regime that will provide defendant with clarity around the cost risk they be expose to when respond to slapp threat . the Bill pass its Second Reading , which be an essential step in legislate comprehensively against slapp , no matter their subject matter or the cause of action in question . I be pleased to note the support that we have receive from stakeholder across medium , law , civil society and both Houses of Parliament . it be a credit to our country that so many be prepared to come together to tackle this issue across the political spectrum . however , combat corruption and preserve access to justice require more than just legislative solution . it demand a cultural shift that place ethic and integrity at the forefront of our justice system . we be fortunate in this country to have independent regulator that uphold the high professional standard . the Solicitors Regulation Authority take swift action by launch a thematic review of slapp activity and publish a warning notice early on when the issue come to light . that encourage renew engagement , with guidance on aggressive correspondence and the notorious letter often issue at the start of slapp claim : those marked " confidential " or " without prejudice " . such label be design to intimidate people who may not have immediate access to legal advice , such that they withdraw from intended publication . we be work together across Government to champion a co - ordinate approach to slapp . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport lead the SLAPPs taskforce , which bring together actor in the medium freedom space to propose non - legislative measure to stamp out slapp . the taskforce be make progress across workstream that seek to raise awareness and develop regulatory response on the issue , benefit from the depth of expertise among the medium and law professional take part . aside from abusive lawsuit , let I address the Government effort to combat corruption in the broad sense . it be an undoubted benefit that the UK be an open economy with one of the world ' s major financial centre in the City of London . that mean that we need strong defence to prevent bribery and corruption here and abroad . the Government take decisive action on bribery by modernise UK criminal law through the Bribery Act reform in 2010 . that legislation set the international gold standard for anti - bribery and corruption law , and be find to be an " exemplary piece of legislation " by the other place follow post - legislative scrutiny . in the past fortnight , the Serious Fraud Office have bring charge against two individual for allege bribery in the oil and gas sector in the middle east . the charge build on a number of critical enforcement milestone that have be meet in recent year , include our large ever financial penalty for bribery follow the conviction of Glencore , which be order to pay £ 280 million in 2022 . I be proud of all that be be do to keep corruption at bay . whether through action against illicit finance or legislation that protect public participation in the public interest , we must continue this work together to ensure that corruption find no home in our jurisdiction . question put and agree to . House adjourn .