I will not . after year of deadlock , it be this UK Government that step up with £ 25 million for the Welsh Government to keep coal tip safe . there be no well illustration of the new relationship between the two government than that co - operation on a matter that I know be of concern for people in former coalmine community across Wales . today ' s debate have raise some important issue and we have have some excellent contribution from colleague . I will run through a few , such as that of my hon . friend the Member for Neath and Swansea East ( Carolyn Harris ) . whenever I hear the word " Neath " , I just think of the " Neath , Neath , Neath ! " rugby chant . that be definitely a " Neath , Neath , Neath ! " speech . on the contribution by the Member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) , I recognise , have grow up very near to the border , the economic , cultural and personal tie that she describe . my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) ask for a meeting with her colleague to talk about Newport . I will be delighted to do that . my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) talk about the 21st century school programme , as do my hon . friend the Member for Clwyd North ( Gill German ) . my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire also pay tribute , which I echo , to all the public sector worker of Wales . to my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Andrew Ranger ) , I be delighted to see Wrexham AFC promote last season . I go to the game against Stockport at the end of the season and have , in my time , drunk quite a lot of that famous export , Wrexham Lager . my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff West ( Mr Barros - Curtis ) talk about the political dna in his constituency and about Ely , and I recognise his description of the sport club . I have spend many weekend on the touchline of pitch in Cardiff West and it be great to see the club go from strength to strength . my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) give a passionate speech about the history of his constituency , which be full of people with big heart . he definitely have a big heart . my hon . friend the Member for Mid and South Pembrokeshire ( Henry Tufnell ) mention his constituency ' s proud city of St David ' s and the £ 1 million regional skill fund that we have recently announce for Pembrokeshire . I be very interested to hear mention from the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) of her Wind Street escapade . I have some of those as well , so maybe we should have a chat outside the Chamber about that at some point . I want to wish everybody a very happy St David ' s Day . I thank they for their contribution and I look forward to celebrate on Saturday .