I congratulate my right hon . friend the Chancellor not only on be the first woman ever to deliver a Budget to this House , but on be the first Chancellor to deliver a join - up , grow - up Budget in 14 year . represent a Welsh constituency , I be proud that this Budget provide the large funding boost — £ 21 billion — that Wales have receive since devolution . that be proof , if ever that be need , that only two Labour Governments work together will ever properly listen to , understand and fight to meet the need of the people of Wales , who have be ignore , belittle or attack by generation of Conservatives . we all know that our broken public service would collapse overnight without the selfless dedication of the countless woman and man who , day in and day out , serve as unpaid carer . I be particularly pleased that the Budget have raise the amount by nearly £ 200 a month that carer can earn before lose out on carer ' s allowance . turn to agriculture , as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for farming , and have grow up on a small family farm , I know there have be much disquiet over the change to agricultural property relief . I have be in constant communication with our excellent local NFU policy staff since the Budget , and I be listen to their concern and feed they directly back to DEFRA . it be unsurprise that farmer be worried , give that many journalist and the conservative party have unfortunately be selectively focus on a £ 1 million figure that do not reflect the reality of the policy . let I seek to reassure small family farmer and repeat the word of the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) last week , who say : " the total value of a farm should not be confuse with the value be pass on at death . multiple family member can own part of a farm . for example , if an individual jointly own a farm worth £ 3 million with their partner , only £ 1 . 5 million be in their estate at death . " those be wise word , which will give comfort to many who have be mislead by selective and mischievous comment on the Budget . with the additional £ 500 , 000 relief for each partner if there be a property on the farm , a farm worth up to £ 3 million may still pay zero inheritance tax . yes , this Budget recognise that family farm form part of the backbone of rural community , but it also recognise that our rural community rely every bit as much on strong , function public service . this historic Budget call time on austerity , and bring stability back .