Oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — transport : economic Growth what step she be take to help ensure that the transport system support economic growth . what step she be take to help ensure that the transport system support economic growth . economic growth be this Government ' s top priority , and the Chancellor put growth right at the heart of her spending review , announce more than £ 92 billion of capital investment in transport infrastructure to give people access to job and opportunity . this include long - term funding for our large city region , billion of pound of investment in road , hundred of million of pound for walk and cycling , and deliver transformative project such as the trans - Pennine route upgrade and East West Rail . this will make a real difference to people ' s live up and down the country , now and in the future , show the difference a Labour Government make . every french city with a population of more than 150 , 000 have a mass rapid transport system , yet over 30 UK city or town of that size still lack it . research from Centre for Cities show that poor connectivity hold back growth and productivity by limit mobility . a key reason why we have so few be cost , because build a kilometre of track in the UK be twice as expensive as the european average . can the Secretary of State set out what her Department be do to bring down cost and help kickstart a tram - building revolution ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that matter with I in person a few day ago and for send I further information on the report and the research . tram do have the potential to support growth at much low cost than heavy rail , but he be right that the cost per kilometre of new tramline be much more expensive in the UK than elsewhere in Europe . I have ask my official to look into what we can do in this area as we look to unlock growth across the UK . we have a proud community in St Athan in the Vale of Glamorgan that be both grow and thrive thank to the economic opportunity provide by the Bro Tathan enterprise zone . will the Secretary of State work with Welsh colleague to progress funding for a new railway station in St Athan to support that growth and provide dignity for the resident ? as we have see in so many area , the previous Government may have make promise about this station , but they allocate no feasibility or development funding to get the project move . through the spending review and infrastructure strategy , this Government will provide at least £ 445 million of rail enhancement over the next 10 year to deliver long - term infrastructure need in Wales , include new station . detail of how this funding will be allocate will be announce in due course . my local economy on the Isle of Wight be entirely reliant on ferry service for the movement of people , the delivery of product and , in the case of tourism , for customer . will the Minister acknowledge just how important unregulated ferry service be for the entire economic wellbeing of the Isle of Wight ? I do recognise that issue . the hon . Member and his colleague on the Isle of Wight have raise this matter with I previously , and I be meet his colleague directly after this question time to talk far . the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , host a meeting recently and we be consider what far we can do as a Department to support local leader in find a satisfactory resolution for his constituent . a number of immediate airport expansion be now plan around the London area , which be fair enough , but there be some concern about the protection that be require for vital link to airport in the region and nation of the rest of the UK . will the Minister provide an assurance that work will be do to protect those link and the local economy that rely on they ? the hon . Gentleman will know that we have invite Heathrow to bring forward proposal for a third runway and we be expect further information on that this summer . we be clear that part of the expansion of Heathrow be about improve regional connectivity . he will also be aware that we have provide airport such as Doncaster with Government money to support that reopen . I call the shadow Minister . to achieve growth , business rely on our world - class logistic and haulage sector . give that Logistics UK say that it be " disappointed " that the logistic sector have not be identify as one of the foundational industry in the industrial strategy this week , what happen ? do the Department for Transport go into bat for our logistic sector ? do it lose the row ? or do it not bother ? what will the Secretary of State be do to ensure that our logistic sector be see across Government as foundational to any growth mission ? it be my understanding that the logistic sector be pleased to be recognise as a case study in the industrial strategy . I know that it welcome the announcement in the spending review of £ 590 million to progress the low Thames crossing , which be a key strategic freight route . for many year the sector have be talk to we about improve the route from the south - east to the midland and the north . unlike the previous Government , this Government be finally get on with the job . we have take the planning decision to grant consent to the crossing and be make money available through the spending review to improve the country ' s critical freight route . the Secretary of State clearly have not listen to Logistics UK — I hope that at least she know where the low Thames crossing start and end . let we turn to another foundational industry to transport and growth : fuel . Elizabeth de Jong , chief executive of Fuels Industry UK say about this week ' s industrial strategy : " we be disappoint not to be name explicitly as a ' foundational industry ' today , give the vital role of the fuel sector in enable growth " . why have our transport - critical fuel sector also be leave behind by the Government ? this government ' s industrial strategy set out the sector that have the potential to deliver economic growth and for which be compete internationally for mobile capital investment . my colleague the Minister for the future of Roads and I meet repeatedly with the industry , be that to discuss fuel or freight and logistic . we be determined to get our economy fire on all cylinder , and we know what critical role the sector he talk about play in that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . my party and I be pleased when the Chancellor recently announce funding for Northern Powerhouse Rail to improve connectivity . however , we still do not know on what the money will be spend . any plan to boost the northern powerhouse must surely include a new main line between Manchester and Liverpool — a vital link that would not only drive economic growth across the north - west but strengthen connection between two of our great city . when will we finally see the detail behind the Chancellor ' s announcement , and will she meet with I and my hon . friend the Members for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) and for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) to discuss proposal for the well linking of Manchester and Liverpool ? the mayor of Greater Manchester and Liverpool — Andy Burnham and Steve Rotheram — have make a strong case for improve rail connectivity between their two great city . the hon . member be right to say that this Government be commit to improve the country ' s rail network . I hope to say more on scheme for the north in the week and month ahead . I assure all hon . member that I will come back to the House swiftly when I have more information so that they can question I far . include coppull railway station , I hope ! local Bus Services what step she be take to help improve local bus service . what step she be take to help improve local bus service . what step she be take to help improve local bus service . what step she be take to help improve local bus service . what step she be take to help improve local bus service . what step she be take to help improve local bus service . the Government be kick - start a revolution in bus service across the country , deliver the right service in the right place at the right fare level to serve local community . our Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill will overhaul bus service operation , protect vital route , include in rural and deprived area , and deliver on our commitment to improve living standard across the country . the Government have confirm over £ 1 billion of funding for bus to support and improve service in 2025 - 26 , and we be keep fare low by maintain the £ 3 bus fare cap . it be no surprise that Stoke - on - Trent ' s bus service improvement plan be among the good in the country . thank to funding from this Labour Government , dozen of new service have be deliver , such as the 36 , connect Kidsgrove to Hanley and Meir , and the 501 , help people get to Wolstanton retail park . will the Minister join I in recognise the progress that Stoke - on - Trent have make with its bus network , and will he meet I to discuss how we can ensure that progress continue when funding end next year ? I congratulate Stoke - on - Trent on its success . it be great to hear that local ambition be be realise through new bus service , low fare and more accessible bus . funding have be announce for 2025 - 26 : stoke - on - Trent city council be award £ 9 . 8 million , and Staffordshire county council be award £ 11 million . future allocation for individual local authority will be confirm in due course . I be grateful to the more than 300 resident who take part in my bus survey . many express frustration about Arriva ' s decision to cut the x5 service , leave schoolchildren strand and people unable to get to work . fortunately , on this occasion , Red Eagle Buses step in , but what happen speak to the wide issue of bus company not put resident ' need first . will the Minister join I in ask Buckinghamshire council to take up the new franchising power in the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) bill to fix exactly that issue ? the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill put the power over local bus service back in the hand of local leader right across England , enable they to choose the bus model that work well for their area . the Government will support local transport authority that decide that the franchising route be the good option for they , deliver improvement to service in their area . I hope that my hon . friend ' s local council will work with she and her constituent to find the good local solution . reliable and accessible local bus service be vital for our community , connect people to work , education , healthcare and each other . yet too often , service be reduce or withdraw due to low usage , leave many isolated . to ensure that those service remain viable , we must not only improve they but encourage more people to use they . what step be the Government take not only to improve local bus service but to commit to run national or regional campaign to boost bus usage and protect those essential route ? we will encourage operator and local authority to work together to run their own regional campaign to help boost bus usage . funding provide to local authority through the local authority bus grant to improve service could be use for that kind of campaign , if those authority feel that will help they to meet their bus service improvement plan objective . after decade of fail bus deregulation under the Tories , I be pleased that this Labour Government truly understand the importance of deliver well bus service for million of people . how will the Government support local leader to take back control of their bus service , and how will that benefit my constituency of Harlow ? I be think particularly of rural area in my constituency , such as Roydon , Nazeing and Hatfield Broad Oak , where resident often talk about how a lack of connectivity cause issue of isolation and a lack of job prospect . the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill will put power over local bus service back in the hand of local leader . it be intend to ensure that bus service reflect the need of the community that rely on they , include in rural area . leader in place such as Harlow will be empower to deliver reform to their bus service . we will also be reform bus funding , give local leader more control and more flexibility to deliver their local transport priority . I welcome the extension of the £ 3 fare cap and the new power enable local authority to deliver bus service that local resident need . in my constituency of Watford , the recruitment of bus engineer to keep service run remain a major problem . what be this Labour Government do to work coherently with the sector to meet that need ? I appreciate my hon . friend ' s concern about the recruitment of engineer . although it be , of course , primarily bus operator ' responsibility to ensure that they meet their staffing need , the Government will continue to support the bus sector to meet its current and future labour requirement . the great long - term funding certainty that the Government be provide through the spending review confirm that the bus sector be a great one for engineer to build their career in . it be great to meet some of the rise star in the go - Ahead Group just yesterday . my constituent in Blaydon and Consett rely heavily on bus . thankfully , with the support of the North East combine authority and our Mayor Kim McGuinness , my constituent have benefit from subsidise fare as a result of the Government ' s continuation of the bus service improvement plan funding , for which I be very grateful . that funding be due to expire in March ' 26 , but it be crucial that we be able to plan how bus user across the north - east can continue to benefit from those fare . will the Minister agree to meet I and member of the combine authority to discuss how we can continue to provide value for money for bus user in the north - east ? I be delighted to hear that my hon . friend ' s constituent be benefit from reduced fare , below the Government ' s national £ 3 bus fare cap . I be pleased that we be able to allocate £ 23 . 8 million to the North East combine authority under the leadership of Mayor Kim McGuinness . I be , of course , more than happy to meet my hon . friend . as I mention to the Minister when he appear before the Transport Committee , I send a transport survey to every household in Weald of Kent and receive hundred of comment about our bus . many be dismay that village such as Smarden , Egerton , Frittenden and Pluckley now have no bus service at all , while other observe that small village be serve by massive bus carry one or two passenger . what further assessment have the Minister make of the role of demand - responsive service in rural area such as mine ? the hon . member will be aware that the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill contain power to ask local transport authority to identify specific route that be of social value and need . that will be particularly important when consider rural area . she will also be aware that the Department have be support a number of design - responsive transport scheme , of which we be undertake review . in my constituency , Hammersmith bridge have be close to vehicle for over six year . during that time , bus have be unable to cross , emergency vehicle have experience delay and business on both side of the bridge have lose out . the Economic Secretary to the Treasury be recently unable to confirm on the radio whether the structure fund will be put towards the bridge ' s repair , so will the Minister tell I whether we can expect funding for Hammersmith bridge to reopen ? I entirely appreciate the problem that the hon . Member and her constituent have experience as a result of Hammersmith bridge . further information on the structure fund will be announce in due course . several of my constituent have write to I , concern that Arriva , which provide local bus service , have cancel or reduce some of their local route , such as the 322 in Maple Cross and the 328 in South Oxhey , leave they with no other transport option aside from costly taxi . what will the Minister do to ensure that everyone have access to public transport , such as those vital bus service ? I will expect the hon . gentleman to walk through the Lobby with the Government when our Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill come forward . it be exactly design to take back control of our bus service , which the conservative party completely and spectacularly fail to do . the Bill will empower local leader to choose a model that work well for their area . it include , as I mention , a socially necessary local service measure . local transport authority that operate under an enhanced partnership will be require to identify local service that they consider to be socially necessary and put in place requirement that must be follow before such service can be change or cancel . they also need to consider the alternative option available to they . bus usage and service in rural and semi - rural area such as Wokingham be particularly hard hit during the pandemic . will the Minister confirm that council such as Wokingham will not see funding for local bus service reduce , and will he recognise that rebuild bus usage in rural area be a unique challenge that require extra resource ? I completely understand the challenge , particularly in rural area . that be why the package of measure in the Bill to give local area the power that they need to take control of those bus be so important . I already mention socially necessary bus route . in the Budget , we confirm £ 1 billion in support to improve bus service and keep fare affordable , include in rural area . that funding have be devolve down to local leader to decide how to spend that in any way they see fit . that will improve bus service in their area , include in rural area . a blind resident in my constituency , Marilyn , rely on her guide dog and the local bus network to live independently . however , change under the Government ' s £ 1 . 7 million active travel grant , include float bus stop on Rifford Road in my constituency , force she to cross fast , bidirectional cycle lane just to board a bus . that go against safety advice from the Guide Dogs organisation and the Royal National Institute of Blind People and be cause real distress . do the Secretary of State agree that government - fund infrastructure must be safe and accessible for everyone , and will she commit to review active travel guidance to consider the role of float bus stop that put blind and visually impair people at risk ? during the passage of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) bill in the other place , we commit to write to all local transport authority ask they to pause the installation of a specific kind of float bus stop , where passenger get off the bus straight into a cycle lane or an island . that be because they have be identify through research as problematic for people , particularly those with vision issue . [ Official Report , 9 July 2025 ; Vol . 770 , c . 8WC . ] ( Correction ) we have already do work with Active Travel England and Transport for London to identify a design standard . fundamentally , this Government believe in accessible transport for everyone , and that be exactly our ambition . if we be to deliver local bus service , we must deliver bus that be efficient and technologically modern to ensure we can meet those target . with that in mind , will the Minister assure the House that any action take by Government to provide bus and local bus service will support bus manufacturing across all part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and , in particular , Wrightbus in North Antrim ? absolutely , and that be why I be so proud to chair the first bus manufacturer expert panel in March . that be a year - long project with bus operator , bus manufacturer and mayor across the country to try to forge a smooth pipeline of order to support our fantastic UK manufacturer . the Government know that bus franchising be commercially risky and very expensive for any local authority . we know that because Transport for London cost taxpayer £ 650 million a year in subsidy , and Andy Burnham ' s Bee Network in Greater Manchester be currently on course for an annual deficit of £ 226 million , when its business plan be for a forecast profit . what be the point of give risky franchising power to every local authority in the country when the Government do not provide the money to support they ? I will not take any lecture from the Conservatives under whose watch we see 300 million few bus mile . as I have explain to the hon . Gentleman in Committee and in various exchange , the full fat franchising — as it be commonly know — in Greater Manchester be only one kind of franchising available to local authority . various other method be available to different area , include the model adopt in place such as Jersey , which be a partnership between the private operator and the local transport authority so that they can benefit from its skill and knowledge . I do not recognise — and I have correct this in Committee — the figure that the hon . Gentleman quote for Greater Manchester , which be perform fantastically , deliver well , more affordable , green , smoother and reliable service for the people of Manchester . I be grateful for that answer , and we have four hour of Bill Committee later today to rehearse the argument yet again . in an early answer , the Minister say that he be provide £ 1 billion of support for bus in this financial year , but surely he know that £ 700 million go to help local authority navigate the huge administrative burden that come with franchising and the other scheme that the Government have in mind . that leave just £ 255 million for actual bus service across the whole of England . that be only enough to satisfy Andy Burnham for a year , yet we have full fat be pursue by Liverpool and West Midlands . I ask again : where be the money to support those ambition ? as the hon . Gentleman be aware , place such as Greater Manchester be part of the group of authority that have receive £ 15 . 6 billion to spend in their local area . it be important to recognise the extraordinary performance of bus in Greater Manchester . once again , we be not tell local area which model to adopt for bus : it could be franchise or enhanced partnership , as well as remove the barrier to municipal bus company . passenger Rail performance : Cumbria what step she be take to help improve passenger rail performance in Cumbria . what step she be take to improve passenger rail performance . I be all too aware that rail performance have be sub - par for many year in this country , but follow a decade of decline , we be now start to see train performance stabilise , with passenger return to the railway . we be work with the rail industry on a performance restoration framework , with five clear focus area to recover performance , include timetable resilience , staff and keep train safely move during disruptive event . the energy coast rail line in Cumbria be in desperate need of upgrading . it have Victorian - era signalling , and part of the track suffer from coastal erosion . upgrade the line would be of huge benefit to passenger , improve the reliability and speed of journey , and to critical freight for the nuclear decommissioning work and for the shipyard work at Barrow . business , other member and I will meet the Minister for Rail next week to push for funding to get the final business case over the line . will the Secretary of State confirm that her Department will work with I and other to ensure that the project be in the Government ' s infrastructure pipeline when it be publish ? my hon . friend have be a great advocate for his constituent on this topic and make a strong case for the scheme . my official be work with Cumberland council and across Whitehall to refine the business case he refer to . I know the Rail Minister look forward to meet he next week to discuss it . in 1911 , Blackpool be home to the busy railway station in the world — a testament to our town ' s rich transport heritage . today , the Blackpool South line urgently need a pass loop to enable train to pass each other and deliver the reliable , frequent rail service that our community in South Shore deserve . the Government ' s recent £ 4 million investment in Blackpool ' s local bus service be welcome . will the Minister meet I to discuss the long - overdue need for investment in the Blackpool South line to finally deliver that pass loop ? this Government be commit to invest in local transport around the UK . I be pleased that we have be able to make such a substantial investment in bus service in my hon . friend ' s constituency . Fylde council ' s business case find that there be potential to increase frequency on the south Fylde line . I know the Rail Minister would be happy to meet he to discuss the matter far . the lead question be on Cumbria . we be put general question into what be a lead question , and I do not think it be good to join they up . we be now go round the country on what should have be a cumbrian question , which be something we could think about for the future . rail service be important in Cumbria , but they be also important in Sleaford . for some time , I have be campaign for lift at Sleaford railway station for those who have difficulty with stair . I be pleased when the previous Government include Sleaford in the Access for all scheme , and have raise it at previous Transport question , I be delighted when the Rail Minister write to I to confirm that the feasibility study will go ahead . when I meet Network Rail yesterday , I find that it be stuck . Network Rail have do as much as it can , but the money ready for it have not be officially unlocked . could the Secretary of State look into that and ensure that the work go ahead as soon as possible so that people can access the second platform even if they have trouble with stair ? I understand the importance of accessibility at rail station , such as Sleaford in the hon . Lady ' s constituency , and she be right that feasibility work have be do on 50 scheme across the country . that feasibility work show that the cost of those individual scheme will vary from place to place . we be review that work and look at the overall quantum of funding we have available . I must say to she and other member of this House that it be unlikely that we will be able to fund all 50 scheme , but I will provide an update in due course on which one will go forward . much like Cumbria , my constituent and rail user in Chichester share a part of the Brighton mainline when commute into London . unfortunately for they , the journey time into London Victoria — on the rare occasion when everything be run on time — be nearly 100 minute , which be above average for city of a similar distance from London . the complaint I hear most often about the journey be the lack of a fast service . will the Secretary of State work with I to encourage southern rail to implement such a service for the benefit of my constituent ? the hon . Lady will know that these matter be constantly keep under review . we have constrain capacity on the rail network and need to balance the number of fast service we have with local stopping service , but I be happy to discuss the matter far , both with the train operate company and Network Rail . aviation Sector what step she be take to support the aviation sector . we be unlock growth through the power of aviation by progress airport planning decision and drive airspace modernisation , include through the new UK airspace design service . we have also invite proposal for a third runway at Heathrow , which will have benefit across the UK and could result in billion of pound invest in our economy . to help the sector grow in a sustainable way , we have introduce the sustainable aviation fuel mandate and a Bill for a SAF revenue certainty mechanism . have the Minister have discussion with the Scottish Government on how good to use the substantial increase in the scottish budget to support the aviation sector ? in particular , what do the Government plan to do to make up for the lack of investment in connectivity around Glasgow international airport in my constituency ? my hon . friend be a champion for Glasgow airport , and as she know , Scotland need investment in transport and infrastructure of the kind we be now see across England and Wales . the Scottish Government will receive the large real - term settlement since devolution begin in 1998 as a result of this month ' s spending review . I hope this budget increase will be put to good use . it be good to see Doncaster regional airport recently attract £ 30 million from this Government . the public service obligation flight route between Newquay airport and Gatwick be a vital regional connection between Cornwall and the capital , but with the current service end in July , it be now up for renewal . will the Minister please meet I as a matter of urgency to ensure that this vital link remain in place ? public service obligation be vital for connect the UK economy , and I think we currently have three . I would be more than happy to meet the hon . member to discuss the one affect his constituency . Bus Manufacturing whether she have have recent discussion with Alexander Dennis Ltd on the potential impact of the propose closure of its Falkirk and Larbert bus manufacturing site on her target for public transport decarbonisation . what step she be take to support the bus manufacturing sector . I understand that this will be a deeply concern time for worker at Alexander Dennis and their family . it be important that the Government , at all level , support british manufacturer , which be why I be proud to chair the launch meeting of this Government ' s new UK bus manufacturing expert panel on 13 March . the panel aim to explore way to ensure that the UK remain a leader in bus manufacturing . my official and I have be in close contact with Alexander Dennis , and I remain committed to work with it and relevant Government Departments to find a way forward . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which detail my membership of Unite the union . once upon a time , Scotland be an industrial powerhouse — we make thing — but last week , Alexander Dennis start a 45 - day consultation with employee . as it stand , hundred of job will be lose from my constituency and that of my hon . friend the Member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) . Unite and the GMB have call for both the Scottish Government and the UK Government , the company and the union to come together to find a solution to save those job and scottish bus manufacturing . there be change to policy and legislation that could achieve this . my constituent , the Alexander Dennis worker , want and need to know whether the UK Government be willing to do what it take . the £ 15 . 6 billion for regional transport project over five year that we announce early this month will help to create a pipeline of investment for the zero emission bus market in the UK , while improve local transport for some of our large region . as I say , we be in close contact with all relevant party to consider how we can support Alexander Dennis . I declare an interest as co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for british bus . as the Minister have outline , this Labour Government will double real - term transport spending in city region by the end of this Parliament . while this should be very good news for bus manufacturing in this country , Alexander Dennis — in my constituency and that of my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) — be , in a contradictory move , seek to end more than a century of bus manufacturing in Scotland and put 400 worker in Falkirk out of their job . what action will the Secretary of State and Ministers , in conjunction with Cabinet colleague and the Scottish Government , take to maintain strategically necessary bus manufacturing in Falkirk ? labour mayor across the country be put in order for UK - manufacture bus , as we support bus travel in our town and city . the scottish people will be ask question about why the Mayor of Greater Manchester have manage to buy almost four time as many bus from Scotland as the SNP Scottish Government have . my official and I be in close contact with Ministers and representative from the Scottish Government , the Department for Business and Trade , the NFI Group — the owner of Alexander Dennis — and Scottish Enterprise to explore avenue of support . Road Network : condition what step she be take to improve the condition of the road network . pothole and poor road surface be a nuisance for driver , cause damage to vehicle and can pose a real danger to road user . to tackle the poor state of our road follow a decade of decline , this Government will provide £ 24 billion of capital funding over the spending review period to maintain and improve local road and motorway across the country , deliver fast , safe and more reliable journey . I thank the Minister for her answer , and for reassuring resident in Swanscombe and the surround area that , two year after the collapse of Galley Hill Road , hope for a solution be in sight , thank to the structure fund announce as part of the comprehensive spending review . can the Minister confirm the likely timescale for the structure fund be up and run and open for bid ? will she undertake to ensure that her official in the Department be work closely with Kent county council to maximise the chance of a successful bid to the structure fund , as I be sure she will for other part of the country ? I thank my hon . friend for his steadfast advocacy for people and business in his constituency , which I know have be blight by the collapse of the a226 at Galley Hill . it be visit place such as Galley Hill that lead we to invest £ 1 billion to enhance the road network , and create a new structure fund that will repair rundown bridge , decay flyover and wear - out tunnel . detail on how that fund will be allocate will be announce in due course . the Minister be familiar with the campaign that I and neighbouring colleague have be run for many year to improve the a180 . when will she have some good news for we ? I can already give the hon . member the good news about the £ 24 billion allocate in the spending review for improve our nation ' s road , and as he know , National Highways be look closely at what can be do on the road that lead to his constituency . peacehaven in my constituency be a grow town , but it remain a one - road - in , one - road - out town . the daily gridlock and frequent roadwork on the a259 be the single big frustration and barrier to opportunity for my constituent . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can unlock that and provide a real boost to Peacehaven and neighbouring town ? I appreciate how frustrating the situation be for my hon . friend and his constituent . my official be continue to discuss detail of the business case for the scheme with East Sussex county council , and I would of course be happy to meet he to discuss that far . the Rapid Transition Alliance tell we that we can improve the quality of our road if we support more people to use rail as a form of public transport . that be one reason why I be campaign to restore the direct train between Eastbourne and London Bridge that be discontinue during the pandemic . will the Minister back my campaign , with a view to help to improve our road and improve economic growth for Eastbourne too ? that be a creative way of ask about railway in a question about road . this Government be commit to improve all form of transport , so that people have a real choice about the good mode to use for their journey . we be keen for people to have the choice of sustainable transport mode , include rail , walk and cycling , as well as drive and travel on bus . as the hon . Member will see , the Government be invest huge amount to support our rail industry , just as we be do to support the state of our road . Train Frequency : Sutton and Cheam how much funding she plan to provide to increase the frequency of train from station in Sutton and Cheam constituency . rail service in Sutton and Cheam be support by requirement on train operator to plan service and timetable to meet current and future passenger demand , ensure value for money for the taxpayer . Govia Thameslink Railway and South Western Railway be require to work collaboratively with the Department for Transport to develop future plan , and our Department hold they accountable for deliver for passenger . early this week I be contact by a long - suffer commuter use Worcester Park station . she write : " as a teacher my day be already demand , often fill with pressure , high energy , and very little downtime . sadly , commute to and from work now feel just as stressful . train during peak hour be frequently so overcrowded that they feel unsafe and extremely uncomfortable . what should be a straightforward journey have become an exhausting and frustrating part of my day . " now that south Western Railway be under Government control , will the Minister tell my constituent when we can expect to see the service and timetable finally improve for Worcester Park station ? service return to public ownership be a watershed moment for our railway and the beginning of our effort to build great British Railways , a new publicly own organisation that run our train . we want passenger to see improvement to their service now and , start with SWR , each operator will have to meet rigorous bespoke performance standard on thing such as punctuality , cancellation and passenger experience , so that we can begin to build a world - class public service . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Worcester Park be a station that my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) and I know well as it be on the boundary of both our constituency , and I confirm that my constituent face the same issue of overcrowding . SWR acquire 90 high - capacity Arterio train to address this issue back in 2019 , yet six year later only a handful have enter service . the UK taxpayer be currently spend over £ 5 million every month on lease the Arterio fleet , and over £ 0 . 5 million additionally every month to store the unused train . will the Minister confirm how many Arterio train be now in use , whether the issue delay roll - out have now be address , and whether he think that spend million of pound every month on unused train be a good use of taxpayer ' money ? I be aware that another two of those train be now in operation . the new manage director be aware that this be a challenge and we be already begin to see progress . drive Test Backlog what step she be take to reduce the backlog for drive test . I know that many learner be still struggle to book a driving test . we be work hard to reduce drive test wait time and help more people get on the road . in April , the Secretary of State announce further measure , include double examiner training capacity and offer overtime pay incentive . in May , the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency launch a consultation on improve car drive test booking rule , which currently have over 30 , 000 response . over 630 , 000 learner now have a test book . that number will rise as the DVSA increase test availability . the post - covid backlog in drive test be trend down under the last government . at the time of the general election , it have get to 521 , 000 , which be still too high , but it be come down . since this Government take over , the number have rocket up to 600 , 000 , a new record high , mean that constituent like Oliver , in my Spelthorne constituency , have have to wait six month for a driving test . the increase delay in drive test be put a handbrake on growth and productivity , so whatever the Government be do , can they do more of it and fast please ? we recognise that demand for drive test have grow not just because of a covid backlog , but due to a long - term change in behaviour and demand for drive test . I be pleased to report that the change we have introduce , particularly on overtime pay incentive , be make a difference . the DVSA expect to deliver thousand of additional test this month and be work to increase test availability far over the come year , so that constituent like the hon . Gentleman ' s can obtain a test as soon as possible . I understand how important this be , particularly to young people , and we do not want to curtail their life chance . rise — Order . I now have to move on to topical question . there will be disappointment for hon . member whose question be next on the Order Paper , but that be because of the way question have be group . we really do need to think about why we be group question that be not relevant to each other . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . early this month , the Chancellor ' s spend review make it clear that national renewal must be feel everywhere , in every place and in every journey , and that be what this Government be deliver , start with the big ever regional transport investment outside London : over £ 15 billion towards metro extension in Newcastle and Birmingham , mass transit in West Yorkshire , and a new bus fleet in Liverpool . but that be not all . we be put billion towards the trans - Pennine route upgrade , as well as East West Rail , and we be protect the £ 3 bus fare cap until at least March 2027 . today , we be go far : we be proud to announce that we be improve mobile connectivity in over 50 rail tunnel , and use satellite technology to strengthen wi - fi on all mainline train to transform rail travel for passenger . finally , last week I reveal our shocking hs2 inheritance . make no mistake : we will fix that appalling mess and get the project back on track . our plan for change be under way , with well journey for passenger and value for money for taxpayer . the transport sector generate Britain ' s high emission . through collaboration with France , we have the opportunity to transform the world ' s busy ferry route , across the strait of Dover between Britain and France , into the world ' s first high - volume green shipping corridor . will the Minister commit to champion this great initiative in the UK and at the upcoming COP30 ? the hon . Lady be entirely right to highlight the importance of decarbonise our maritime industry and ensure that our port have the grid connection to enable fleet to purchase new vessel , so that we can get carbon emission down on the sea , as well as elsewhere in our economy . I would be very happy to talk to she far about what more we can do to champion that important work . I call the shadow Secretary of State . both Grand Central and hull train have see their passenger number increase dramatically since the pandemic , by more than 50 % and 20 % respectively . that be a significant increase compare with other operator . why do the right hon . Lady think that might be ? if the hon . Gentleman want to trade statistic on the rail network , I can tell he that we have see a massive increase in passenger number on TransPennine Express and LNER . in fact , last year we have a 7 % overall increase in passenger journey and passenger revenue overall go up from £ 10 . 6 billion to £ 11 . 5 billion , which be good news for the taxpayer and a clear sign that people want to come back and use our railway . I be not hope to trade statistic — I be hope that the right hon . Lady would answer the question . I will provide the answer : it be because they be open access operator . they have to compete for passenger by provide a service that passenger want at a price they be prepared to pay , and it be clearly work . why have the Government indicate to the industry that they be not supportive of open access by state their opposition to eight of the nine proposal submit in February ? I have say repeatedly at this Dispatch Box that we see a role for open access operator when they open up new market and add value . we have to balance that against the revenue that they abstract from the public sector operator . we can not have a situation in which we import too much congestion on to the rail network , because there be constrain and finite capacity . I be keen to see a mixed model of delivery go forward , but I need to reduce the taxpayer subsidy go into the rail network at the moment . we be support — order . in a recent survey I conduct in Mansfield , local and minor road be among the worst affect by poor maintenance . the A60 in Warsop , Chesterfield Road in Mansfield and Old Mill Lane in Forest Town be highlight as particular problem . what be the Department do to improve local road in my constituency and in Nottinghamshire as a whole ? my hon . friend be a great champion for his local constituent . we have provide an extra £ 500 million for council this year to end the pothole plague , and the East Midlands combine county authority will receive almost £ 20 million extra , take the total to £ 76 million . for Nottinghamshire to unlock its full uplift , it need to show that it be follow good practice and publish a report on its highway maintenance activity by the end of this month . after year of broken promise by the Conservatives , this Government have finally confirm this week that the Camelford bypass project will not go ahead . have anticipate that for some time , I have already start work with local stakeholder on a plan b . will the Roads Minister meet I to discuss an alternative way forward ? I be aware that at least the certainty of a decision be welcome by the hon . Gentleman , and I appreciate that . the Department be happy to discuss any alternative plan with he and with Cornwall council . we have meet before , and I be very happy to meet he again . First Bus be axe the critical 65 bus , which run through Dalmarnock , Bridgeton and the Gorbals in my seat and into the seat of my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) . without the 65 , Dorothy , who be in her 90 , will not be able to visit family and friend . that be a loss for everyone , because Dorothy be brilliant company . do the Minister agree that bus operator must take into account the need of people such as Dorothy before axe critical bus service ? I be sorry to hear about the impact that that be have on Dorothy . as my hon . friend will know , bus service be a devolved matter in Scotland . in England , we be take action to put power over bus into the hand of local leader through the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill . when the Government introduce the increase £ 3 bus cap , it see the cost of a number of short journey with local bus provider increase by more than inflation . what step be the Minister take to ensure that people be not feel the effect of Labour ' s bus tax ? participant in the bus fare cap be only able to increase bus fare by inflation , so if the hon . Gentleman want to speak to I outside the Chamber , I would be happy to take that matter up for he . I be disappointed to see the finding of yesterday ' s Civil Aviation Authority airport accessibility performance report , which outline that three airport — Edinburgh , London Heathrow and Glasgow Prestwick — receive a " need improvement " rating for accessibility . can my hon . friend provide an update on when the aviation accessibility task and finish group ' s recommendation will be publish , and when the Government will be able to outline how they plan to introduce measure to support disabled people who wish to access air travel ? everyone should be able to travel with dignity and ease , which be why we launch the aviation accessibility task and finish group last year . I expect to be able to provide an update soon , when that group publish its finding . as my hon . friend have mention , the Civil Aviation Authority ' s airport accessibility performance report 2024 - 25 demonstrate that improvement be still require in some area . Devon and Torbay combine county authority will receive just £ 40 million between 2026 and 2030 in local transport grant funding — less than half the amount award to York and North Yorkshire and a fraction of the billion give to the city region , despite Devon have the long road network in the country . a large local operator say that just £ 1 million a year would make a transformational change in Devon , where rural deprivation be well hidden . will the Minister meet I to discuss the issue face the bus network in Devon and the Government investment that be need ? our long - term bus investment will support rural area to improve local bus service . that be on top of the £ 712 million we have allocate to local authority in 2025 - 26 . I meet taxi driver in Derby , at a meeting organise by the GMB , who be proud of the work they do . they want high standard across the board ; what action be the Minister take to review taxi licensing , so that everyone can have confidence that the taxi and private hire industry be reliable , sustainable , and safe for passenger and the driver themselves ? I assure my hon . friend that we be take this issue very seriously . we be review licensing authority ' compliance with exist guidance , and we will hold those who do not follow that guidance to account . we will go far follow the publication of Baroness Casey ' s review , and we have commit to take legislative action to close the loophole in the current licensing regime to achieve high standard of safety across the board . the dawlish sea wall collapse in 2014 , cause a devastating loss to the south - west ' s economy of about £ 1 . 2 billion . it be not the break in the sea wall that close the railway for eight week ; it be the collapse of the cliff . will the Minister prioritise the project to secure those cliff , which be yet to be carry out , or will she meet I ? perhaps she could even visit dawlish to see how important this fix be go to be . I know how important that rail line be to the people of the south - west , include the hon . member ' s constituent . we be work to determine which rail enhancement project will be take forward follow the Chancellor ' s spend review statement on 11 June . More information will be make available shortly , and I be sure that my colleague , the Rail Minister , will write to the hon . member in due course . follow the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , last week the Casey review show we yet again that private hire vehicle be a dangerous place for many child and young people . nationally in 2023 , 96 % of taxi licence be issue in one local authority — Wolverhampton , one of my neighbouring local authority — yet only 10 % of the applicant live there . what action be the Minister go to take to ensure local taxi licensing be do locally and to high standard ? hear , hear ! Baroness Casey have rightly bring this issue into sharp focus , and as I say to my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , we be commit to address it . we will work as quickly as possible and consider all option , include out - of - area work , national standard and enforcement , in seek the good overall outcome for passenger safety . the Minister may be aware that the outline business case for improvement to the A31 at Hickley ' s Corner in Farnham will come before she in a couple of month ' time . while I understand that she can not make any promise now , will she at least agree to look kindly on that application and meet I to discuss it ? I look forward to see that business case when it come forward , and I will of course be happy to discuss it with the hon . member at the appropriate time . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . a new report from the all - party parliamentary group for cycling and walking warn of the grow public safety risk pose by the widespread use of unsafe , illegally modify bike , and the fire risk cause by their cheap but powerful battery buy from online marketplace . what assessment have the Minister — along with his colleague in other Departments — make of the risk pose by those fake e - bike ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for that question . I be study the APPG ' s report in detail . illegal e - bike be clearly dangerous and have no place on our road . I would be happy to meet she to discuss it far . my constituent Paul cycle more than 1 , 000 km a month all across the country , but he tell I that Cheshire ' s road be among the bad . poor road be dangerous for all road user , so do the Minister agree that national guidance for pothole repair policy must properly reflect the need of cyclist alongside motorist ? we must urgently improve road condition for everyone . I absolutely agree that the poor state of the road that have be leave to we after 14 year of under - investment pose a serious risk to cyclist . that be precisely why we have give that extra £ 500 million to council across England , and it be precisely why we be hold they to account and ask they to follow good practice in road maintenance . as the Secretary of State know , I welcome the £ 445 million be invest in Welsh rail over the next five year , but will she help I to secure a meeting with the Rail Minister , so that we can discuss the need to start off build the Burns station with the Magor and Undy station in Monmouthshire ? my hon . friend have be a fearsome champion for this rail investment , and I be delighted that over the next 10 year we will be spend more than £ 445 million on rail enhancement in Wales . I will certainly help she to secure the meeting that she request . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? I shall . the business for the week commence 30 June include : Monday 30 June — Second reading of the Deprivation of Citizenship Orders ( effect during Appeal ) Bill . Tuesday 1 July — Second reading of the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill . Wednesday 2 July — consideration of Lords message to the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill , follow by a motion to approve the draft Armed Forces Act 2006 ( Continuation ) Order 2025 , follow by a motion to approve a statutory instrument relate to terrorism . Thursday 3 July — debate on a motion on financial redress for 1950 woman impact by Department for Work and Pensions maladministration of state pension age change , follow by a general debate on mobile phone theft . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 4 July — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 7 July will include : Monday 7 July — Second reading of the Pension Schemes Bill . Tuesday 8 July — remain stage of the Football Governance Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 9 July — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill . Thursday 10 July — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 11 July — private member ' Bills . I be afraid to say that the past week have be another horror show for the Government . this be Armed Forces Week , as the House will know . it be a time to celebrate and champion all those who serve and have serve in our armed force , and nowhere more than in my own county of Herefordshire . we must also note that , far from celebrate the armed force , this Government deliberately open the door last year to unfair and vexatious prosecution of veteran who serve decade ago in Northern Ireland , and they have keep that door open . what else ? the original Abortion Act be debate for more than a year , but the Government allow no notice for public debate on the abortion amendment last week , and they give just two hour of debate in the Chamber on the big change in abortion law in nearly 60 year . whatever one think of the merit of the issue , that be a scandalously bad way to make legislation . what else ? Defence Ministers be leave out of the loop on the US bombing of Iran ' s nuclear facility , and be unable to say whether they support this action by our close ally . a Government Whip resign , express her deep concern over the welfare Bill , and the Government have promise to bring the Bill forward next week , as we have just hear — let we see if they do . talk of u - turn , the Government , have only just u - turn on the winter fuel payment , and again on groom gang last week , have prepare themselves for a u - turn on the two - child benefit cap less than a year since they suspend seven Labour mp for vote against the cap . this be just one week . be it any wonder that the Prime Minister ' s personal reputation have continue to plummet ? only yesterday , the Times of London say : " not quite a year have pass since his landslide general election victory and already his political stock be trade at junk status , akin to a Zimbabwean dollar or Weimar papiermark . " Mr Speaker , you may recall from your intimate knowledge of german history that the papiermark be a monetary instrument that lead to hyper - inflation and political collapse . that be come from the Times of London . shall we dig a little bit far into one specific reason why the Prime Minister ' s reputation might have fall so much ? follow the record pay settlement of last year , the junior doctor have announce that they be " excited " at the idea of six month of strike action . meanwhile , hospital consultant be ballot to see if they will strike as well . doctor receive a 22 % increase last year after Labour take office , and now the junior doctor be apparently demand a further pay increase of 29 % . these be eye - water number and , of course , we will all end up pay if the increase be grant , but I be afraid this be exactly what we would expect from a Government who have tax and splurge the cash since the election . it be hardly surprising that the union now think they have an open door to extract money from the Treasury , and the Government have actually make the situation even bad through their rolling programme of nationalisation , and by abolish NHS England . whatever else it may have be , NHS England act as a firebreak on union lobbying , because it operate semi - independently of Ministers . by abolish it , the Government have now remove one of the few mean they have to face down extortionate demand for more pay and more restrictive practice . the same be true with the railway : as each one be nationalise — include South West Railway only last week — so the obstacle to the union ' demand be progressively be remove . the House will recall the massive pay settlement give to the rail union last year , with no attempt to negotiate any efficiency gain . it be only a matter of time before those union come back for more , as the doctor be do . these be not pay bargain ; they be an abject surrender . of course , Ministers themselves do not mind — after all , 90 % of they be report to be union member . as far as I can see , the Leader of the House be an exception : she be not a union member , and all credit to she for that . I be ! ah , okay . I be very sorry to say that the Leader of the House have correct I . she be , in fact , a union member and therefore fully complicit in the same problem . the Treasury itself be now the only hold - out against union demand . little wonder the Chancellor have look so unhappy and out of sort — and that be before the Deputy Prime Minister start leak memo call for billion of pound a year in tax increase . the union know the Government be vulnerable , and they have come back for more . labour Back Benchers also know that the Government be run scared and , lead by their Select Committee Chairs , they be start to get organise . can the Leader of the House positively and personally now confirm that the welfare Bill vote will take place next Tuesday ? may I start by wish two Deputy Speakers a happy birthday ? [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] as the right hon . Gentleman say , this be Armed Forces Week , when we thank and show our support for the man and woman who serve , or who have serve , in our armed force over many year . it be nice to see the right hon . gentleman in his place again this week , because we have miss he quite a bit recently , but I might gently suggest that if he have be here last week , he could have ask last week ' s question last week instead of ask they this week . he ask I about the welfare Bill . as I have just announce to the House , the second reading of the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill will take place next Tuesday , and the remain stage of the Bill will take place on the Floor of the House the following week . I want to reassure colleague that we take parliamentary scrutiny and the process of Bills extremely seriously . that be what our parliamentary democracy be all about : bill be introduce ; principle be consider at Second Reading ; and the detail receive robust debate and discussion , and be often amend in Committee , before we consider Third Reading . as the House would expect , the Government actively engage with parliamentary opinion throughout a Bill ' s passage , as we be do intensively with the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill . I be sure that the whole House can agree that our welfare system need reform . too many people be consign to benefit for life without support to work and to get on . during the pandemic in particular , the number of those on sickness and disability benefit rise significantly , and the previous Government do nothing to re - engage people with the labour market afterwards . one in eight young people be now not earn or learn . many post - industrial community have be scar over generation by worklessness and little job creation . as constituency mp , we have all see the inadequate and , frankly , degrade nature of disability benefit reassessment . address these deep - seat problem be at the core of our labour principle and what we be try to do with our welfare reform . I just remind colleague that these include : the big permanent increase to the standard out - of - work benefit since 1980 ; an end to reassessment for all those with serious health condition ; create a more holistic and professionally - lead assessment process ; the big back to work programme in a generation ; the right to try work ; and end the era of consign people as unable to work . to be clear , it be the Conservatives ' legacy that this government now have to sort out — their legacy of one in 10 working - age people on sickness or disability benefit ; their legacy of a generation of young people with no mental health support and poor skill ; their legacy of over 7 million people on NHS waiting list ; and their legacy of inaction on welfare reform over year and year . quite honestly , the right hon . Gentleman have a brass neck , because the Conservatives have write the book on Government chaos , have they not ? there be three Prime Ministers in three year ; they send the market into chaos , with Budgets do on the back of a fag packet — they really do write the book on that one — there be by - election after by - election for misconduct ; over 40 Ministers resign in a single day ; billion be waste on crony covid contract ; public service be leave on their knee ; and industrial action be sweep the country , cost we all dear . all of that leave ordinary people pay the price with high bill , high mortgage and long waiting list . however , this be not just about welfare reform ; it be also about the context in which this sit in , and that be what this Government be get on with do — this Government ' s mission to create good , decent , well - pay job in every community ; this Government ' s mission to bring down waiting list and deal with the deep - seat health inequality in this country ; this Government ' s mission to tackle child poverty ; this Government ' s mission to build more affordable and social housing , give people a bedrock in life ; and this Government ' s mission to revolutionise skill and opportunity for young people . that be this Labour Government , with our labour value , get on with the job and deliver for people . rise — Order . I be go to allow business question to run only until 11 . 30 be , because of the important statement that be to follow , so I ask Members to help each other , and there will be a good example from Afzal Khan . I know that many colleague in the House share my frustration with the leasehold and management company that leverage excessive and ambiguous service charge on leaseholder and tenant . in my constituency , I be face ongoing problem with Glide Property Management , which demand unreasonably large sum from constituent without provide suitable service , and which be refuse to respond to the numerous complaint that have subsequently be submit to it . do the Leader of the House agree that such company should not continue take advantage of leaseholder and tenant , and must be hold fully accountable for all complaint ? I fully share my hon . friend ' s frustration with our leasehold system , and the charge and difficulty that many leaseholder face . he will know that we be act quickly to implement the provision of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , and there be more come on that very soon , include the measure to drive up the transparency of service charge and ensure that they can be challenge more easily by leaseholder . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I join the Leader of the House in congratulate the Deputy Speakers on their birthday , and in celebrate our armed force . early this year , when the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions announce the welfare reform , her argument to this House be that they be all about get people back into work . that argument be undermine somewhat by the timing ; in the spring statement the follow week , we discover that the £ 5 billion saving we achieve from the welfare reform make up fully half of the fiscal headroom that the Chancellor be rely on . when we take a close look at the reform , we find that most of the saving be generate by change to the eligibility criterion for the personal independence payment . entitlement to PIP be give to those in work , those out of work and those unable to work . it follow that many of those who stand to lose out as a result of the reform will not be incentivise into work , because they will already be in work , or will be unable to join the workforce any time soon . no wonder , then , that when the Bill be publish last week , there be condemnation from all side of the House . if the book need to be balance , we need to make sure that they be not balance on the back of the disabled . the Leader of the House will be well aware of all the rumour circulate around this place that the Government be prepare to make concession on the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill . what be the procedure for do that ? we understand that a reasoned amendment , if one be table , would kill the Bill off entirely . what be the option for the Government to make concession ? will they have to withdraw the Bill and re - present it , or be there some other mechanism by which they can make compromise with their Back Benchers before next week ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place . he have do a very good job of stand in for his excellent colleague , the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) , with whom I also enjoy work . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that reform to the welfare system have to be do with compassion and be carefully manage . I be sure he also agree that the system do need reform . he be absolutely right that PIP be not an out - of - work benefit , but a benefit that help to support disabled people with their living need . we have to ensure that it be sustainable for the long term , and be there for those who need it most . as I have say , we be listen closely to colleague from across the House — include , I be sure , member from his party — who have a lot of experience of deal with the PIP assessment process . I be sure we all recognise that for too long it have be a box - tick , degrading process that have not be fit for purpose . that be why we have be review it and listen closely to colleague . we want to get this right for disabled people , their carer and other . the hon . Gentleman ask about the parliamentary process . as Leader of the House , with responsibility for legislation across the piece , I struggle to think of many Government Bills bring in this session that have not be amend during their passage . Most Bills be amend , and those amendment be usually make in Committee and on Report . I be sure that this Bill will be consider in the usual way during its parliamentary passage . the Leader of the House extol the virtue of parliamentary democracy , yet over half of mp reject the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Payment Bill . we have speak to our constituent and to organisation represent disabled people . they reject the Bill , because it will cause harm to disabled people . their voice have not be hear , much though we be try to amplify they in this place . will the Leader of the House urge the Cabinet to withdraw the Bill , and instead allow a general debate on how we support disabled people ? my hon . friend have campaign on these issue for a long time . we have not yet vote on , or even consider , the Bill . we will have an extensive and , I be sure , thorough parliamentary process in which to do that . I ask colleague to think about the principle of welfare reform on Second Reading , and to then really drill down into the detail of the Bill as it pass through Parliament . we have engage with the disabled community . we will continue to engage with colleague from across the House and with stakeholder as we consider not just this Bill but the further welfare reform that be need , which have to be , as I say , compassionate and consider , so that we have a system that be there for the long term for those who need it most . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . follow the successful seven - year experiment on estimate day debate , the chair of the Procedure and Liaison Committees , the hon . member for Lancaster and Wyre ( Cat Smith ) and for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , meet I yesterday , and we agree that we would bring forward proposal for change to the Standing Orders , which I be sure the Leader of the House will look favourably on . in addition to the business that the Leader of the House have announce , there will be a debate on Thursday 10 July in the Chamber on the attainment and engagement of boy in education , follow by a debate on child ' s health . in Westminster Hall , there will be a debate on regulatory power over billing of energy supply to business on Tuesday 1 July , and debate on the future of music education and on safeguard child with allergy at school on Thursday 3 July . there will be a debate on alcohol and cancer on Tuesday 8 July , and debate on state support for victim of terrorism and on London ' s contribution to the national economy on Thursday 10 July . tomorrow , across India , the annual Ratha Yatra festival will take place . in Ahmedabad , the Rath Yatra festival have be hold since 1878 , and there be a procession through the street of the deity that Hindus worship . in Harrow , we will celebrate on Sunday , when the annual procession will take place . this year , it will be between Stanmore temple and Kenton temple — a seven - mile route , in 31 ° heat , take about four hour to complete . the good news , of course , be that it be downhill this year , and not the uphill route from Kenton to Stanmore . will the Leader of the House join I in wish all Hindus celebrate this most important festival Jai Swaminarayan , Jai Shri Krishna and , indeed , Jai Jagannath ? I thank the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee for once again highlight to the House all the forthcoming Backbench Business debate , and look forward to receive from he and colleague representation on how we hold estimate day debate . I be sure we can all agree that that probably do need to be look at . I join the hon . Gentleman in wish everybody who be celebrate this weekend in his constituency and beyond a happy chariot festival , as I think it be also know . I hope that he and other keep cool , wear suncream and drink lot of water on their downhill walk . yesterday ' s resignation of the Reform leader of Warwickshire county council and his replacement with an 18 - year - old will be of real concern to my constituent . we desperately need a function council to fill in pothole , deliver our care service and end the crisis in education for those with special education need and disability . while I be sorry to hear about Councillor Rob Howard ' s health challenge and wish he and his family well , question remain about how he come to resign after just six week in the job , and about the qualification of his 18 - year - old replacement . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the need for competent and effective local government that deliver for community around the country ? I be sorry to hear of Rob Howard ' s ill health . my hon . friend raise a much broad and more important point about the Reform party in local government . reform be commit to reduce the head - count in local government , and its councillor clearly get the memo and be act on it ; they be resign in drove . the constituency of Bromsgrove and the village be 89 % green belt . under this Labour Government , our housing target have go up by 85 % , yet nearby Birmingham have have its housing target reduce by 20 % , despite there be at least 140 hectare of brownfield land in the south of the city alone . surely the Leader of the House agree that that do not make sense . if it do make sense to she , could she explain it to my constituent ? we make no apology for have the most ambitious house building programme in a generation . that programme be locally lead ; it be about local plan that bring together a strategic view of what land be available and its good use . those decision should be take locally . my constituent regularly contact I about the need to improve dementia care . I remember the impact that dementia have on my grandparent and my family , so I sympathise profoundly with everyone impact by it . I be therefore delighted when my constituent Joy Watson be award the british empire medal in the King ' s birthday honour in recognition of her inspire work as a dementia champion . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Joy on her fantastic achievement , and send the good wish of this House to Joy and her husband Tony , and will she consider a debate in Government time on how we can enhance dementia service ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate Joy Watson , and we send our good to she and her husband Tony . like thousand of other across the country , they live with dementia every day . we thank the carer who support those live with dementia . this Government be commit to dementia service and make sure that we have the good research and innovation on dementia . the Health Secretary will continue to keep the House update as part of his 10 - year plan . June be Gypsy , Roma and Traveller History Month , celebrate the colourful history and contribution of those community . People be draw to Glastonbury and Somerton as a place of pilgrimage , because of its unique spiritual heritage . after the conservative cut , we have no site across Somerset for our Gypsy , Roma , and Traveller community . can we have a debate in Government time on support for the Gypsy , Roma and Traveller community ? as the hon . Lady be the MP for the Glastonbury festival site — or an area close to the site — may I join she in welcome all those go to the festival this weekend , where it be likely to be very hot ? she raise an important point about the Gypsy / Roma community and the need to support it where we can . this would make a really good topic for a debate . this be Armed Forces Week , and as we celebrate the contribution of our armed force , we must do more to support those who serve our country . too many of our veteran return home with post - traumatic stress disorder , for which there be few treatment option . since December 2023 , the Home Office have be sit on a response to the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs report on barrier to research on schedule 1 substance , include mdma and psilocybin , which be use in other jurisdiction such as Australia to treat ptsd . can the Leader of the House please find out where this response be , and arrange for a debate in Government time on novel treatment for mental health condition ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important matter during Armed Forces Week . I be really sorry to hear that there have not be a response forthcoming . she be absolutely right to raise the issue of the mental health trauma suffer by many of our veteran , and the need to do more to support they in the community . I will make sure that a response be forthcoming . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate my excellent local school in Romford and Hornchurch — Ardleigh Green infant school , Dame Tipping Church of England primary school , Hornchurch high school , Parklands primary school , Squirrels Heath junior school , St Edward ' s Church of England primary school , the Frances Bardsley academy for girl , and Towers infant school — for their superb Ofsted report , both good and excellent ? will she join I in promote , as my local school do , more british value , more patriotism , singe the national anthem at assembly , and fly the Union Jack outside every school across our country ? I join the hon . member in congratulate school in his constituency on their recent ofsted rating . the school in all our constituency do an amazing job in not just educate our young people , but give they that full life experience about how to be good citizen — and good british citizen as well . we thank they for all their work . in the autumn statement , the Chancellor announce the large devolution settlement in the history of the United Kingdom . it be deeply concern that despite the Government give Scotland the funding that it need to deliver vital public service , the SNP - run East Renfrewshire integration joint board have launch its second attempt to close the Mirin and Milldale day care centre , which provide essential service support people with learn and physical disability , autism , and old adult and child . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn those savage cut by the SNP - run integration joint board , and call on the SNP to rethink and save those service ? my hon . friend make a very strong case . she be absolutely right that , after decade of failure under the SNP Government , local people be cry out for change . we give the Scottish Government the large budget settlement in their history , and they have no excuse for not use it well . my constituent be face a crisis endure by people across the UK : a lack of access to basic dental care . Si â n Gwenllian , Member of the Senedd for Arfon , have commission a report that provide a compelling case for a dental school at Bangor University . while the Welsh Government have acknowledge the potential benefit of the proposal , they cite financial constraint . give the promise of two government at both end of the M4 work together , do the Leader of the House agree that time should be find to revise Wales ' s financial settlement to make this vital proposal a reality ? the right hon . Lady be right to raise the issue of dental desert , which we see across the country , not just in Wales . she will know that the previous Government do not invest in dentistry , and that have have a knock - on effect in Wales . many colleague have raise with I the need for more dental school . I suggest that she club together with some colleague to get a debate on that subject . my constituency have recently host some fantastic community event . we have have the world coal carry championship , the annual Ossett and Gawthorpe maypole procession , the Horbury craft fair , the annual Shelley French lunch , and plenty of beer festival — not to mention the upcoming gala across the constituency over the summer . could the Leader of the House support I in find parliamentary time to celebrate the hard - work volunteer behind all these event , include Visit Ossett , and acknowledge their contribution to Yorkshire ' s community , culture and local economy ? my hon . friend give we a great advert for all that be go on in her constituency . these sort of event be important for attract visitor and tourist to her constituency , Yorkshire and beyond . the late datum from the Environment Agency show nearly 17 , 000 report of waste crime across England in the past year , with the west midland sadly show the high concentration of incident . Waste crime cost the UK economy around £ 1 billion annually , and no doubt the Labour - lead Birmingham bin strike be not help . can we have a debate in Government time on the problem of waste crime and the need to take action to tackle both waste crime and the bin strike , which have be go on for over 100 day ? the right hon . Lady be right that fly - tipping and waste can blight community and be a real problem , though I must say that incident sky - rocket and prosecution fall under the previous Government . that be why we be take step through the Crime and Policing Bill to give police and local authority more power to take off - road vehicle off the street and to take tough action on fly - tipper . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my support from trade union . this week we have hear extremely disturbing news that Northumbria police have destroy all document relate to the miner ' strike , include on Orgreave . that be absolutely alarming . the Labour Government have pledge an inquiry or investigation into the strike , yet the wanton destruction of that vital , critical evidence have be allow to happen . be this a sinister attempt to obscure justice ? I be not sure that anybody be prepared to answer that question . who give the police permission to destroy these document , and what be behind it ? can we have an urgent debate into how the Government can instruct all police force and all authority — everyone that hold any detail on the miner ' strike and Orgreave — to retain that evidence for when the Labour Government maintain their pledge and hold an inquiry into the event of 1984 ? justice can not be serve if evidence be systematically and deliberately destroy . that sound like a deeply worrying development in the case , and I be sure the whole House will be shock to hear it . my hon . friend have long campaign for justice and answer to what happen at Orgreave , 41 year ago . he raise the issue with I last week and I will continue to raise it with minister on his behalf . I join he in tell anyone involve that they must retain their record , and when question be ask , they must come forward with every bit of information they have on what happen , as they would be expect to . my constituent constantly tell I that Thames Water be fail in its duty and have no financial future . in spite of its failing , we be reliant on it for the most basic human need of water and sanitation . will the Leader of the House allow we Government time to scrutinise in detail the merit of turn Thames Water into a public benefit company ? we urgently need to restore public trust in the water sector ; that be particularly true of Thames Water , whose performance have be extremely poor over many year . there be lot of concern about it . as the hon . Gentleman will be aware , we bring in the Water ( Special Measures ) Act 2025 , the first step to reform our water system . we have commission a deep look at the water governance sector . further announcement will be come on that , hopefully before the recess . Sadeq Nikzad have be convict of a horrifying sexual assault in Falkirk in October 2023 . shamefully , Mr Nikzad continue to maintain that he have do nothing wrong ; during sentencing , his lawyer claim that this be due to cultural difference . to be clear , no one from any culture or background in our community believe that his action be anything other than disgusting and criminal . will the Leader of the House clarify that , once it be in force , clause 48 of the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill will ensure that those who commit such serious offence will be unable to claim refugee status in our country ever again ? obviously , I can not comment on specific case , but this one sound truly shocking . clause 48 of the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill will give the Home Secretary power to refuse refugee status to those convict of any sexual offence , even when it do not result in a prison sentence of 12 month or more . we be determined to ensure that those who commit such crime do not get the right to stay in this country . brilliant organisation such as citizenAID , which be co - found by two of my former boss , Major General Tim Hodgetts and Professor Sir Keith Porter , provide brilliant education about civil resilience and emergency preparedness . in an increasingly uncertain world , will the Leader of the House commit to Government time for a debate on that really important issue , so that we be upskille our citizen in case of serious incident ? I join the hon . gentleman in thank all those involve in citizenAID in his constituency . it sound like a great initiative . he be absolutely right : we need more contingency provision and to train people up so they know what to do during these kind of incident . when they happen , we always rely on volunteer and volunteer organisation like the one he have describe . this sound like a good topic for an Adjournment debate . HS2 have impact many resident across Tamworth , with business and farmer have be force to sell their land . one resident have be trap for nearly 10 year with a property that border HS2 . he be unable to sell because 50 % of the land occupy what hs2 claim be safeguard territory . despite the involvement of three solicitor , HS2 have fail to explain that ruling . may I therefore ask for a statement to the House on when the statutory blight will be lift on land no long need for HS2 , so that my constituent , along with those of other hon . member , can move on with their life ? that case in my hon . friend ' s constituency sound really difficult . as she will be aware , the Secretary of State recently come to the House to explain more deeply the shocking mismanagement of hs2 . we be determined to get a grip of that and get delivery back under control . we be review the position on HS2 phase 2 and will set out more plan shortly , include about the safeguarding of land . my constituent Liz be throw out of the RAF in 1969 when a love letter from her girlfriend be discover . not only do she lose her career but , as she recently discover , she have have a criminal record for 50 year . the compensation scheme for veteran have be open since December last year , but the discharge of fund for those suffer such injustice be slow : 1 , 000 veteran have apply , but only 44 payment have be realise . will the Leader of the House please make time for a debate about the process , so that those who have wait for decade can finally be compensate ? we have all be shock by these case ; I be sorry to hear about what Liz have suffer . for so many year , those who be gay be not able to be in the armed force . that they be treat in such appalling way , get criminal record and lose the job they adore , be truly shocking . I be really pleased that we recently have a debate on these matter on the Floor of the House , but I will absolutely ensure that she and other member be update on the delivery of that compensation scheme and of justice for those involve . this weekend , the England woman ' s football team play their final friendly before they defend the Euro championship trophy they win so brilliantly in 2022 . I be delighted to say that Rochdale ' s very own Keira Walsh will again wear the no . 4 shirt at the heart of our midfield . will the Leader of the House join I in thank and wish Keira and the Lionesses all the very good of luck and in thank her proud mum and dad , Tracy and Peter , for what they do in produce such an inspiring figure for woman and girl across the country ? I be sure that the whole House will join my hon . friend and I in wish the Lionesses well in defend their title . what joy win the Euros four year ago bring to we all . I join he in thank Tracy and Peter for bring up their daughter and for all the drop - off and pick - up , and all the time and energy , that go into create someone as brilliant as Keira Walsh . I do not know if the Leader of the House be aware that if we instal just 15 % of float solar panel on the man - make reservoir in this country , we would double the instal base of solar power without have to put a single new solar panel on agricultural land . I know what she be think : " if only some plucky Back Bencher have secure today ' s Adjournment debate , the House could learn more . " I be happy to say that I have , so will she encourage Back Benchers from across the House to attend today ' s debate to learn more about float solar ? I be pleased to confirm that the hon . Gentleman be a very plucky Back Bencher indeed . I be sure that many will be interested in his Adjournment debate . I look forward to hear what the Minister have to say , because it sound like a great idea . my constituent Danielle Wiseman be desperate to pass her theory test , but she be recently tell that she can not get a theory test in Gateshead until 2026 . will the Leader of the House make time for the urgent debate need on access to theory test and drive test — an issue that bedevil people in Gateshead and across the country ? also , if she will allow I , will she congratulate Danielle and her partner David on the upcoming birth of their child ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate Danielle and David on the upcoming birth of their child . it be so important , as a parent , to be able to drive around , so I be sorry to hear about the delay they be experience . this matter get raise with I lot at business question . the Government have recently take step to deal with the abuse of and the huge backlog in the drive test system . we be deliver around 10 , 000 additional driving test , but I will ensure that the House be update on the matter . in recent week and month , Harrogate have be gridlocke , with seemingly unco - ordinate roadwork block our town . it be particularly difficult for business when those work go on for protract period of time — and when they already face labour ' s job tax . will the Leader of the House agree to look at a compensation scheme for business affect for long period by roadwork ? really badly deliver roadwork , which be often unco - ordinated , can be a huge blight on local business , town centre and other . I hear what the hon . Member be say . these be the responsibility of local council and we be put more money into make sure that road can be put right , but I will definitely ensure that he get a reply . one in four woman experience mental health challenge during pregnancy or after birth ; in fact , it be the most common complication of pregnancy in the UK . last month , almost 50 hon . member of this House pledge their support for improved maternal mental health provision at an event that I host with the Maternal Mental Health Alliance . will the Leader of the House advise on further opportunity to embed well maternal mental health provision in the Government ' s 10 - year plan for the NHS ? my hon . friend be right that maternal mental health be a critical issue to the development of a child . I have long be involve in the initiative on the first 1 , 001 day — from conception to the age of two — with former Leader of the House Andrea Leadsom , and I will be visit such service in my constituency tomorrow ; let I get that plug in . I assure my hon . friend that these sort of issue will be cover in the NHS 10 - year plan , which will come to this House very shortly . research show that 91 % of farmer see poor mental health as the industry ' s big hidden issue . last year , Kelso farmer Neil Stewart very sadly take his own life . his friend and family have since raise over £ 80 , 000 for RSABI , which provide support for people work in farming . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to they and may we have a debate on mental health in farming ? I be really sorry to hear that Neil Stewart take his own life , with the impact that must have have , and be still have , on his family and friend . to hear of their extraordinary fundraising effort for RSABI be heartwarme . mental health and mental health support , whether in rural community , young people and other aspect , be a priority for the Government , and more will be announce shortly in the 10 - year plan . on 5 July , Renfrewshire host the annual sma ' Shot Day parade , as it celebrate the victory of weaver over their employer in the 19th century . for more than 30 year , Mr Tony Lawler , a Paisley Buddy , have lead the procession , beat the Charleston drum . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Tony as he retire from the role , and do she agree that celebrate worker ' right be a worthwhile topic for a future debate ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in wish everybody a happy Sma ' Shot Day celebration and all that involve , and I congratulate Tony Lawler on 30 fantastic year of service to that rich history and festival . she be right : as a Labour Government , we celebrate the advancement of worker ’ right and all the history involve . surfer Against Sewage have just publish its 2025 water quality report , show that more than five people a day fall ill after enter the water at UK beach , with many require gp visit or hospitalisation for chest infection or serious gastro bug . give the serious public health consequence of sewage pollution , will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time about the health and economic impact of untreated sewage discharge ? water quality have be shocking in recent year , whether in our river , sea or lake . it be a huge public concern and , as the hon . Gentleman rightly point out , it have a number of consequence . that be why one of the Government ' s first act be to bring in the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which be now an Act , and we will go far . we have the commission on wide water governance reform , and further detail of that will come shortly . at a time when the Government be reduce NHS waiting list across England , they continue to rise in Scotland . just yesterday , the SNP Government announce plan that could see investment in NHS service reduce by a shocking 12 % , result in a significant reduction in frontline NHS staff . do my right hon . friend agree that people in my constituency deserve a Scottish Government focus on improve our nhs , as have be the commitment of this government since the general election ? my hon . friend be right . the SNP ' s record on the NHS be shocking . we have see year of mismanagement and grow waiting list , include eight - hour wait in accident and emergency and 100 , 000 scot stick on NHS waiting list for more than a year , which be truly shocking . the SNP Government have have the big settlement they have ever have under this government , and they now have no excuse not to sort it out . early this month Family Business UK confirm what be obvious to many on this side of the House — but not , apparently , to Labour Members — that the Government ' s change to business property relief will cause more than 200 , 000 job loss and cost the economy nearly £ 15 billion . that include 250 job in my constituency and more than £ 60 million lose to the local economy in West Yorkshire . can we have an urgent debate on the catastrophic consequence that the Government ' s change to inheritance tax , through business property relief and agricultural property relief , will have on many of our family business from April 2026 ? as someone who also represent many family business , I know this be an issue of concern , but we have to take difficult decision in our Budget to ensure that we have money go into our national health service to reduce waiting list , and into our skill sector and education , and that mean look at those with the broad shoulder , include inheritance tax , so that we can restore our public service to where they need to be . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Black Country Living Museum in my constituency , which be recently name the good large visitor attraction in the country by VisitEngland ? the museum bring to life the Black Country ' s rich heritage through the reconstruction of shop , house and industrial area , tell the story of this revolutionary period in our history . will she also make time for a debate in Government time on support world - class visitor attraction , which contribute so much to our local and national economy ? it be wonderful news that the Black Country Living Museum win that award — it pull a real peaky blinder . my hon . friend be absolutely right that these kind of visitor attraction be critical to bring people into our community and ensure that our high street and town centre thrive . reference have already be make to Armed Forces Week . like member from across the House , I will be take part in event this weekend . North - east Lincolnshire be stage the major national event , and around a quarter of a million people will descend on Cleethorpes this weekend to take part in the event . unfortunately , due to a constituency engagement , I can not take part in this afternoon ' s debate , but I want to put on the record my thank to Alex Baxter and the armed force major event team in north - east Lincolnshire and , indeed , to all the volunteer across the country who put together the event that mark this occasion . I join the hon . member in take the opportunity to thank Alex Baxter and all those in the hon . member ' s constituency mark Armed Forces Week . we join together , as we always do , to thank all those who have serve and be serve this country . new figure today from the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority show that the equivalent of one child in every UK classroom be bear through IVF . yet fund for IVF be a postcode lottery and there be not enough support in the workplace , as Fertility Matters at Work highlight in Parliament yesterday . can we have a debate in Government time on this issue , and will the Leader of the House advise on how we can address it across Government because we need cross - departmental action ? the Government recognise , and we all recognise , that access to fertility treatment be variable across the country . we be consider these issue as part of our broad plan for the NHS . I will ensure that my hon . friend and the rest of the House be keep update . I wish to raise the urgent situation face Christians in Syria , where a suicide attack on a Damascus church recently claim the life of at least 20 people and injure many more . the brutal assault be a devastating reminder of the threat that Christians and other religious community continue to face in Syria , amid year of conflict and displacement . will the Leader of the House ensure that the Foreign Office give the House an assessment of the attack and the wide security situation for religious minority in Syria ? what step can the Foreign Secretary take with international partner to support those vulnerable community , ensure humanitarian access and hold the perpetrator of these atrocity to account ? once again , the hon . Gentleman raise a serious issue . we strongly condemn the horrific terrorist attack in Damascus and continue to monitor the situation closely . we do note on this occasion that the syrian Government ' s response be swift and robust , but we will of course keep monitor it . this week be also Small Charity Week — a chance to celebrate the work of small charity in all our constituency . I have have the privilege of meet many such organisation , whether that be home - Start Hillingdon , Hillingdon woman ' s centre or Trinity Homeless Projects . despite their important work , the National Council for Voluntary Organisations find that only 3 % of charity be confident about their long - term financial future . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate to celebrate Small Charity Week and talk about how we can continue to support their work ? I join my hon . friend in congratulate all those small charity in his constituency . we recognise that the last few year have not be the easy for charity . we be take a number of step to keep they go , include with the charitable tax relief and exemption . we be also ensure that local government , on which many charity rely , have the long - term secure funding to support they . under the last government , fly - tipping skyrocket while prosecution fall , and place like Burnt Oak , Colindale and west Hendon in my constituency pay the price . it be fantastic to see this Labour Government act where the previous Government fail , bring in stiff penalty and give the police power to seize and crush van . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on how we can use those power to consign fly - tipping to the dustbin for good , and would she join I in Hendon to crush a van ? absolutely . fly - tipping and littering be a blight on many of our community , which be why I be proud that this Government be finally act by give council and the police the power they need to seize and crush many of these vehicle . my hon . friend will know that I recently take part in a vehicle - crush exercise with my local police , and I recommend it to other . my constituent apply to have his case against his pension provider consider by the ombudsman , and he contact I because of the delay in receive a determination . I , in turn , write to the ombudsman , who advise that my constituent be in the correct place in the queue and would be allocate to an adjudicator in September 2025 . my constituent make his original application in May 2020 . I be sure the Leader of the House would agree that this timescale be not acceptable , so will she find time for a debate to shine a light on why such inefficiency and poor response to constituent be happen ? I be really sorry to hear about this case . my hon . friend be right that five year be unacceptably slow . the performance of the Pensions Ombudsman have be raise with I in previous business question , and I be happy to take this up directly for she . she be right that such delay be just not acceptable . last week at Bishop ' s Stortford carnival , I meet Katie from Blues pre - school and nursery , which be take part in this week ' s Small Charity Week . any donation to the nursery , which will be match by partner , will be use to upgrade its outdoor area so it can be use by the child in all weather . will the Leader of the House join I in wish the nursery well as it raise fund , and in encourage my resident to visit the donation page ? absolutely . I join my hon . friend in hope that the nursery raise the fund it need to support its work . last Saturday , I launch the first Bournemouth town centre citizen panel , which bring together 50 local resident and the council to co - create an action plan for our town . will the Leader of the House join I in thank the more than 250 people who apply , and the participant for their energy and idea to restore pride in our town ? will she also consider make time to debate how we can support more meaningful engagement on the future of our town centre and high street ? a citizen panel in Bournemouth sound like a fantastic initiative , bring people together to revitalise the great town she represent . my border terrier , Jack , always receive a very warm welcome in Stockton North , but too many pet owner be choose to have their animal put down for fear of sky - high vet bill . I receive a positive response from the Minister for Food Security and Rural Affairs on 8 May to my request to review the Veterinary Surgeons Act 1966 . can we have Government time to debate the recommendation of the Competition and Markets Authority because , just like Jack , I be not let this go ? my hon . friend sound like a dog with a bone . this be an important issue that be raise with many of we by our constituent . I will ensure that the Minister update he and , if necessary , the whole House . this Government have secure record investment in the NHS , which for local people across my constituency mean more appointment , early diagnosis and access to efficient , high - quality care . after year of under - investment and increase waiting time , can we have a debate on how these be the first step to restore a health service that be fit for the future and be there when people in my constituency need it ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . this Government have take swift action to bring down waiting list , which be down by almost 200 , 000 in a year , with 100 , 000 more patient treat in that time . we be put extra money into the NHS because reduce waiting list be critical to our economy and the health of everybody in this country . on my recent visit to Greenways primary academy in Stockton Brook , pupil be busy decorate plate kindly donate by the brilliant Steelite , show off the artistic flair for which our creative city of Stoke - on - Trent be know . I learn during my visit that more than 70 child be now attend the school ' s brilliant breakfast club , an initiative make possible by this Labour Government . do the Leader of the House agree it be important that kid have hungry mind that be ready to learn rather than hungry belly ? absolutely . we be proud of the free breakfast club that we be introduce . we be also proud that we be extend free school meal to all those on universal credit , because it be critical to every child ' s learn that they be not go hungry . before I call the Prime Minister to make his statement , I note that it will cover two separate substantial subject — the G7 summit in Canada 10 day ago , and the NATO summit in the Hague this week . for that reason I will allow a degree of latitude and , unusually , I will allow hon . member who wish to ask about both subject to do so . I urge colleague to keep their question brief for the benefit of those who be still wait to be call . I call the Prime Minister . G7 and NATO Summits this Labour Government be focus on deliver security for the british people — national security , economic security , and social security . on social security , I recognise that there be a consensus across the House on the urgent need for reform of our welfare system , because the british people deserve protection and dignity when they be unable to work , and support into work when they can . at the moment they be fail every single day by the broken system create by the Conservatives , which achieve neither . I know that colleague across the House be eager to start fix that , and so be I ; all colleague want to get this right , and so do I . we want to see reform implement with labour value of fairness . that conversation will continue in the come day , so that we can begin make change together on Tuesday . Mr Speaker , with permission I will update the House on the G7 and NATO summit , where the middle east be at the forefront of our mind . for decade , it have be the state policy of the UK and our ally that Iran must never obtain a nuclear weapon . no one who care about the security of our country , or the future of the middle east , could live with that eventuality . for decade we have work to prevent it , and on Saturday night the US take a big step towards resolve that threat . there be now a window for peace . we urge Iran and Israel to honour the ceasefire and seize this opportunity to stabilise the region . that be our priority — to get Iran back around the negotiating table with the US . ultimately , that be how we will ensure a complete , verifiable , and irreversible end to Iran ' s nuclear programme . we be use every diplomatic lever to support that effort , because further instability would pose grave risk to the region and beyond , take we even far away from free the hostage and ease the intolerable suffering of the Palestinians . there be also an opportunity now to push for a ceasefire in Gaza , and we must seize it . I have be discuss this with other leader , and we will keep push to put the region on a well path . I have also speak to the Emir of Qatar to express our solidarity after Iran ' s unacceptable attack on the Al Udeid airbase . we take the necessary action to protect british military personnel ahead of that attack , and we will continue to support all our citizen in the region . Mr Speaker , this crisis have puncture once again the mistaken idea that domestic and foreign policy concern be separate , and that action in one area be at the expense of the other . the truth , now more than ever , be that international problem rebound on we at home , impact our security and our economy . our national security strategy be clear . in this era of radical uncertainty , face with grow conflict , state threat , illegal migration , organised crime and terrorism , the only way to respond to these issue be by be strong , both at home and on the world stage , by pursue a foreign policy that answer directly to the concern of work people . that be the approach I take to NATO and to the G7 . NATO be the most successful military alliance the world have ever know and the cornerstone of our defence for over 75 year . our duty be not merely to reflect on that success ; we must equip the alliance for the future . I have long argue that this be the moment for Europe to make a fundamental shift in posture . that be what the UK have do , deliver the big sustained increase in defence spending since the cold war and set out a landmark shift in our defence and deterrence in the strategic defence review . yesterday , NATO ally step up as well , to meet this moment and create an alliance that be strong , fair and more lethal than ever . together , we sign a new defence investment pledge of 5 % of gdp by 2035 , include , for the first time , wide issue of homeland security and national resilience , like protect our cyber - security and our energy network . this be in lockstep with our national security strategy and we be already invest in these area . under NATO ' s new definition , we estimate that we will reach at least 4 . 1 % of gdp in 2027 , on the way to 5 % by 2035 . ally also agree to review both the balance and the trajectory of these requirement in 2029 to coincide with the scheduled review of NATO ' s capability requirement , ensure that we keep pace with threat and technology as they evolve . with this historic commitment , we be continue our proud tradition of lead in NATO , pick up the torch from Attlee and Bevin . and now , follow their lead , we will seize the opportunity create by this moment to align our national security objective and plan for economic growth in a way not see since the 1940 , renew industrial community the length and breadth of our country , boost defence production and innovation . our investment in Britain ' s nuclear deterrent alone will support 30 , 000 high - skilled job . I want to speak directly about our deterrent capability . it have keep this country safe for decade , but we recognise the grim reality today that the nuclear threat be grow . so we be renew our exist at - sea capability and we be go far still . I can tell the House today that we will procure at least 12 F - 35A fast jet , and we will make they available to bear nuclear weapon , if necessary . that mark the return of the Royal Air Force to nuclear deterrence for the first time in three decade , the big strengthening of our deterrence posture in a generation , keep our country safe while also support 20 , 000 job . the NATO summit send a message of intent that will be hear around the world , but this must be join by renew support for Ukraine , because if we let Putin succeed there , the deterrent effect of NATO ' s new plan would be fatally compromise . so I tell President Zelensky at Downing Street on Monday that we will harden our resolve . we strike an agreement together to share battlefield technology , accelerate our support for Ukraine ' s defence , while boost british security and british job . we commit to provide hundred more air defence missile , pay for not by the british taxpayer , but with money from Russia ' s frozen asset . and , together with Europe , Canada and our Indo - pacific partner , we announce that we will deliver € 40 billion of military aid to Ukraine this year , match last year ' s pledge in full . there be a path to a just and last peace , but it will only come through flip the pressure on to Putin . his position be weak than he claim , so I urge all our partner , include the US , to step up the pressure now , with more sanction and more military support to bring Russia to the table , to agree an unconditional ceasefire , lead to serious negotiation . let I turn to the G7 summit , where , again , my priority be to deliver in the national interest . again , I can report some significant progress . leader agree to take decisive action on illegal migration , follow the UK ' s lead in use hard - head measure such as sanction . we mark an export contract with Canada worth over £ 500 million , create job here at home . we secure Canada ' s agreement to ratify Britain ' s entry to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership — a trading bloc worth $ 12 trillion . we secure President Trump ' s signature to fully implement our trade deal , which will slash tariff on british good . his executive order will remove aerospace tariff completely and cut tariff on car from the 27 . 5 % that british car maker face now to 10 % in a matter of day , save thousand of job in the west midland and around the country . I have be to Jaguar Land Rover many time now ; I have look those worker in the eye , and I know what this mean to they , their family and their whole community . that be who I be represent at summit like this — the work people of Britain . navigate this world require cool head . it defy simplistic answer and knee - jerk judgment . we do not pretend that we can fix every global problem , but we can carve a unique path through these dangerous time to secure and renew Britain in an era of global instability . that be what our plan for change be all about : put Britain ' s national interest first . after year of economic chaos , we have deliver economic stability for the british people . after year of our armed force be hollow out , we be build up our military , fire up our industry , lead in NATO , support Ukraine and keep Britain safe . after year of fray alliance , we be rebuild and shape they to serve the british people . we have focus every ounce of our global influence to deliver for work people and to deliver in the national interest , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I thank the Prime Minister for advance sight of his statement . he have evade Prime Minister ' s question for two week , only to come back here to tell we what we already hear on the news . this be a weak statement from a weak Prime Minister , which can be characterise in two word : noise off . in his statement , the Prime Minister say : " we urge Iran and Israel to honour the ceasefire " . he say : " we be use every diplomatic lever to support this effort " . what diplomatic lever ? be they the same lever he be use with his Back - Bench rebel ? be he just ask they to please play nice ? let we be honest : nobody care what this Prime Minister think — why should they , when he do not even know what he think ? clearly no one care what he think , because he be not involve . we use to be a strategic player on the global stage , advance Britain ' s interest with confidence — [ interruption . ] order . you may not wish to hear the Leader of the Opposition , but I do . it do not do anybody good in this Chamber to try to shout down somebody who be speak . Labour Members can shout as much as they like , but we all know the truth . we use to be a strategic player on the global stage , advance Britain ' s interest with confidence , and now we be on the sideline . over the last few week , historic event unfold in the middle east , and at every stage Britain have be out of step with the US and out of the loop with Israel . last week , the Prime Minister come back from the G7 insist that there be nothing President Trump say that would indicate he be about to get involve in this conflict . day later , the US launch its attack on Iran ' s nuclear facility , and the Prime Minister have no idea what be go on . the week before , Israel launch an attack on Iran , and it become apparent that the UK be not even inform about the attack in advance , despite we have be involve in previous preventive action . how be that stand up on the world stage ? on Tuesday , the Foreign Secretary — a lawyer — repeatedly could not say whether the US strike against Iran ' s nuclear facility be legal . this be a Government who do not know what they be do . let I make the conservative position clear : Iran have be a direct threat to the UK for year , plot terrorism on british soil . it must not get nuclear weapon . this be a time for Europe to step up , and the UK should be lead ; instead , we have an Attorney General use international law to constrain and restrict the UK while the Prime Minister hover indecisively on the sideline . what we need be a leader — instead , we have three lawyer . last week , I write to the Prime Minister about how this conflict have underscore the folly of the Government ' s £ 30 billion Chagos surrender deal . the Diego Garcia base be of obvious strategic importance for conflict in the middle east . [ interruption . ] Labour member be shake their head — they do not understand . it be obvious ; Diego Garcia be use extensively during the war in Afghanistan , include by the United States . at Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister say that this Chagos surrender have be " oppose by our adversary , Russia , China and Iran " . — [ Official Report , 4 June 2025 ; Vol . 768 , c . 302 . ] since then , it have be widely report that China have offer massive congratulation on the deal and convey that it fully support Mauritius . will the Prime Minister now admit that he be incorrect to state on the Floor of this House that China oppose the Chagos deal , and can he confirm whether he still view China as an adversary ? under the term of the Prime Minister ' s deal , if the US be to launch an attack from the military base on Diego Garcia , we would have to inform the Chinese - ally Mauritius Government . will he abandon the deeply flawed surrender deal ? if not , when will he introduce the legislation set out the detail of the Chagos surrender , so that Parliament can consider and debate it ? we welcome the announcement that the UK will be buy F - 35A fighter jet , and I be pleased that the Labour party have now move on from its previous position of not support NATO and advocate against the nuclear deterrent . [ interruption . ] Labour Members pretend that it never happen , but we have the receipt . conservative be proud of exceed the NATO baseline of 2 % of GDP spend on defence , and we lead NATO in get there . however , the Government ' s aspiration to get spending on national security to 5 % be just hope — the reality be that Labour do not have a plan to get to 3 % . it be all smoke and mirror , and we do not know what the Government will spend the extra 1 . 5 % component on . can the Prime Minister confirm whether this be money we be already spend , or whether there will be any new money ? so long as this plan remain unfunded , these be just word . instead of use smoke and mirror to inflate defence spending , Labour should heed our call to hit 3 % by the end of this Parliament with a fully fund plan to get there . look at the money the Government claim they be go to save through their welfare Bill — £ 5 billion be nowhere near the ten , if not hundred , of billion we be go to need to find if we be to meet that defence spending target . this be the problem , Mr Speaker : it be one thing to talk about spend money on plane and infrastructure and to make announcement about review , but it be another to be clear about where the money will come from and how it will be spend efficiently to secure the defence of our nation . [ interruption . ] Labour member can mutter all they like ; we all know that they be terrify of do anything that be even remotely difficult . it be crucial that there be a clear , united front in full support of Ukraine that secure peace on Ukraine ' s term . the stake could not be high . we need the Government to be leverage british influence in every way they can for Ukraine , so can the Prime Minister tell we whether he push for clear language in the NATO communiqu é about Russia be the aggressor in this conflict ? can he update we on the UK ' s current position on Ukraine ' s accession to NATO , give the absence of detail in this year ' s communiqu é ? we must ensure that our lead role continue , but that require strong leadership and an ability to influence . the Prime Minister may have finally return to this House after a fortnight away , but in truth , he be all at sea — irrelevant on the world stage and impotent in the face of rise illegal immigration . now , with 126 of his own mps openly undermine his authority , his Government be incapable of make even the small change to bring down the cost of our ever - expand welfare bill ; there be no way that they be go to be able to pay for our defence . this be a Government who be paralyse by their own legal advice , paralyse by their rebellious Back Benchers , and paralyse by the fear of be find out for have no real vision for this country . rise — Order . I say to those who be late into the Chamber , please do not stand . I call the Prime Minister . we live in more volatile time than many of we can remember , with conflict in many part of the world that be evolve in a very fast and dangerous way . there have never be a more important time to work with our ally and to be absolutely serious in our response . that response be unserious . to suggest at a time like this that the Prime Minister attend the G7 summit and the NATO summit be avoid pmq be unserious . what happen at NATO yesterday be historic . it be very important that , at a time like , NATO show unity and strength , with a commitment to the future , not just to the past . that take a huge amount of work with our ally over the last few day and week . we be centrally involve in that , craft the final outcome , and be recognise as have do so . I be proud that we help put that summit into the right place yesterday , and the world emerge safe as a result . that be the unanimous view of 32 ally on leave NATO yesterday . for the Leader of the Opposition to belittle it just show how irrelevant she and her party be become . they use to once be serious about these issue , and they use to be capable of cross - party consensus , but all of that be slip away . we have lead on Ukraine and secure three trade deal . the right hon . Lady talk about the prospect of US attack . she must have overlook the fact that on Tuesday , when I return from the G7 , the first thing I do be go straight into a Cobra meeting to plan for all contingency , include a possible US attack on Iran . I will tell she why I do that , although we do offer a Privy Council briefing , so she know this . we have military personnel co - locate in nearly all the basis across the middle east , and I be therefore extremely concerned immediately upon my return to take every step to ensure that I have the high level of assuredness that we have the preparation in place to keep our people and our asset safe , should the need arise . far from be blindside , we be plan through last week , we be talk to the Americans , and we be put on notice about everything they do . she simply do not understand the nature of the relationship at that level . in relation to Diego Garcia , let I disabuse the right hon . Lady . we do not have to give Mauritius advance notice under the treaty . that be absolutely clear . the right hon . Lady talk about defence spend . we be the party that have increase defence spend to the high level since the cold war — 2 . 5 % . the Conservatives talk about it ; we do it . she say we do not know where the money be come from , but she be press on this in an interview not so long ago , and she say that " we talk about get to 3 % by 2030 and we couldn ' t make the number work . " she go on : " we need to find a way to make the number work " . I be intrigue by this interview , and I think she be about to lay it out . then she say : " this sort of thing require real thinking . " then she say : " let ' s start look at what we can do … it ' s about we set up task force " . that be how unserious they be . the right hon . Lady ask about the Ukraine communiqu é . as she will know , have she actually study it , the way that NATO work be an iterative process . therefore the position on Ukraine have not change for NATO , and it have not change under this government . on the contrary , we be recognise as lead on Ukraine and as the close ally of Ukraine , work with they the whole time . that be something I be proud of . I think it be something the House be proud of , because we have be do this on a cross - party basis , and the soon we get back to that , rather than the unserious response of the Leader of the Opposition , the well . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . in the year since the election of this Labour Government , Britain be back as a force for good on the world stage . follow the outbreak of conflict in the middle east last week , I be proud to see the Prime Minister lead call for calm , cool head and de - escalation . in its aftermath , we must take seriously the renew defence commitment that the Prime Minister have make at NATO , but we must also proudly wield the soft convening and convincing power that the UK have in spade . that soft power have historically be the key to successful diplomatic effort in Iran , secure the joint comprehensive plan of action , and in the wide middle east and around the world . can the Prime Minister confirm what the Foreign Affairs Committee have learn from our conversation with our european ally , which be that Britain be quietly and effectively step up to lead the fight against russian disinformation and cyber - warfare , and that the investment we will be put in will be well spend ? I thank my right hon . friend for her question , and she be absolutely right . the need to de - escalate be the central focus go into the weekend and come out of it , and I be very pleased that we have reach a ceasefire in relation to the conflict in Iran . we absolutely need that to hold . my right hon . friend be absolutely right about the soft convening power of the United Kingdom . it be an incredible asset and , yes , I can confirm that we be work with other in relation to russian disinformation and cyber - attack , which , as the House know , be a regular occurrence . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I thank the Prime Minister for early sight of his statement . the Liberal Democrats agree that it would have be wrong to leave an empty chair in front of the Union Jack at the table for the G7 and NATO . it be astonishing , and I share his surprise , that it be now conservative policy not to attend the G7 and NATO . I be glad that the Prime Minister have signal retreat on his welfare plan . I hope that he will now listen to everyone and not just his Back Benchers . on the G7 , despite the progress that he outline , it remain extremely damaging to the world economy that the United States and Donald Trump continue their policy of protectionism . can the Prime Minister update the House on whether he have have discussion with other G7 and , indeed , NATO colleague about how we could persuade President Trump to resile from protectionism ? on NATO , the Prime Minister be right to say that Putin ' s imperial ambition present a once - in - a - generation threat to our security . last week , I travel to Estonia to meet british troop and estonian leader , include Prime Minister Michal . the Estonians have not forget the repression enforce by russian tank , nor the murder of four former Prime Ministers at the hand of the Kremlin . they be under no illusion about the threat pose by Putin , and we must not be either , so I welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment to NATO ' s new spending target . in the face of Russia ' s war machine , the british Army remain an essential guarantor of our country ' s security and that of our ally . when I meet our incredible troop station in Estonia , I be inspire by their skill and professionalism . we need to get more brilliant people like they into the military , so will the Prime Minister consider the Liberal Democrats ’ proposal to move more quickly to reverse the Conservatives ' cut to the Army , and back our new £ 10 , 000 bonus for recruit ? it be vital that we take such measure , as Putin continue his barbarism in Ukraine . our commitment to Ukraine ' s defence must be increase , not reduce . in addition to the action that the Prime Minister outline , can he confirm whether he have hold more discussion with partner on not just use the interest from frozen russian asset , but seize those asset , so that we can bolster our support for Ukraine and pay for a fast increase in defence spending ? the Estonians believe they have a plan to deal with all the complication that he mention when I ask he question about this . be he prepared to meet I to discuss the Estonians ' idea about how to break the backlog so that we can seize those asset ? the Prime Minister also speak about the conflict and crisis in the middle east . he be right to push even hard for a ceasefire in Gaza . People around the world will question whether military action , rather than diplomacy , will actually make we safe in the future . we must redouble our effort for a just peace in the region , and that must include self - determination for the palestinian people . will the Government finally commit to recognise a state for the Palestinians ? may I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question ? he start by ask whether I have discuss with other G7 partner the question of US tariff . yes , we frequently discuss trade , the economy and , frankly , the challenge that those tariff put in place for all economy . that be the sort of co - ordination and discussion that go on all the time , and it will continue . on the troop in Estonia , I have visit they a number of time myself . they be incredibly brave , and they have a real sense of purpose . I can tell the right hon . Gentleman that , at NATO , the frontline state on the border with Russia be lead the charge in relation to the work that we have to do yesterday to renew and take forward the pledge that we make . the right hon . Member ask about reverse the cut to the Army . we will begin the work of reverse those cut . when the Conservatives come into government , there be 100 , 000 in our Army ; when they leave , there be 70 , 000 . I think that be what Ben Wallace mean when he say they have " hollow out " our armed force . on the question of the asset , and whether they themselves can be seize rather than just use the interest , I have be discuss that with colleague , as the right hon . Member would expect . it be complicated , as he know . there be not one view , frankly , on this issue among colleague and ally . I be very happy to see the proposal that he have receive from Estonia , I believe , or any other , but it remain complicated . I have to say that ally be in different place on this , but we will continue to discuss it . on a ceasefire in Gaza and recognition , I think it be very important that we have be press the case , particularly , in recent day , quite urgently and in close collaboration with our colleague — the E3 of Germany , France and the UK be work very closely together at the moment — to say that this be the moment to press on from Iran to a ceasefire in Gaza , and I mean that that should happen in day , not week or month . I do think there be a window of opportunity here . I hope that it happen but I can not predict that it will . I do think that all of we should do all we can to ensure that , along with a ceasefire in Iran , we push to that ceasefire in Gaza . on the question of recognition , it have long be our party ' s policy — this Government ' s policy — to recognise Palestine at the right time in the process to bring about the peace , because I think that without a two - state solution there be little prospect of last peace in the region , and that remain our policy . last week , as part of the armed force parliamentary scheme , I visit NATO headquarters in the UK , where I meet fantastic young man and woman who be learn great skill as they prepare to defend Britain abroad . however , my constituent , when they see cut of such great amount — for example , as propose in the welfare Bill — may well ask why defence spending be rise . for the benefit of my constituent , could the Prime Minister simply and briefly set that out ? first , I congratulate my hon . friend on her elevation — I have not see she personally since then — which be very well deserved . my hon . friend raise a really important point . it be right that we recognise that the first duty of the Prime Minister be to keep the country safe and secure in a volatile world , and that be a duty that I take extremely seriously . we do live in a volatile world , and it be not just something that happen overseas and have no impact on we . what have happen in the Ukraine conflict have already have an impact on her constituent in relation to their energy bill , the cost of live and so much else . we can see , from the last week or two , the impact that the conflict in Iran be have on oil price , which again have a direct impact on her constituent . so it be absolutely right and in our own interest that we take the necessary measure in relation to defence spend . I should also say that we be determined to ensure that , as we spend more on defence , that be reflect in good , well - pay job in the United Kingdom , include in her constituency . on all three front , that be the answer I give to her constituent . the iranian regime have long present a threat to the United Kingdom . as the Prime Minister and I have both experience , our security service have foil almost 20 iranian - back plot here at home . the prospect of such a regime have nuclear weapon be unacceptable , so I welcome the US and israeli action . do the Prime Minister agree with I that we and our european ally should now trigger snapback sanction unless Tehran admit the International Atomic Energy Agency and allow it to fully verify that all effort to enrich enhance uranium have cease ? I thank the right hon . member for his question and endorse what he say about our security service , which , as he know very well , do an incredible job in the most difficult of circumstance and at great speed , and they have foil a number of plot that would have cause widespread panic , violence and destruction . on snapback — I thank the right hon . member for raise this — that be a consideration that we be discuss with our ally . I do think that it have to be part of the pressure that we apply . exactly when and how snapback be apply will obviously be a question for discussion , but he be absolutely right to say that that be the very discussion we should be have at the moment , and I thank he . I welcome my right hon . and learn Friend ' s statement and his commitment to increase defence expenditure , but give that we be look to improve public service — the health service , social care , education and the police — be it realistic to do that within the current tax envelope ? have the time not come for we to review how we tax wealth , as oppose to work , to ensure that those who can bear the heavy load do so ? on defence spend , when we set out the commitment to 2 . 5 % by 2027 - 28 , I set out at the same time how we would fund it . we will continue to take that approach to any spending commitment we make . my hon . friend will know that we make a commitment in our manifesto to not raise taxis on work people . we will keep to that commitment . I welcome the element of the Prime Minister ' s statement where he explicitly link defence , diplomacy and domestic security . he be absolutely right to highlight that interconnection . therefore , will he revisit the spending review , which see 4 . 5 % and 5 % real - term reduction in Home Office and Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office budget , to make sure that they can actually do their job within that interconnect system ? to pay for that , will he ensure that his Chancellor remove the job - destroy taxis on employment and reduce the tax burden , which be see entrepreneur and wealth creator leave the country in their drove ? will he show real leadership and ensure that his Back Benchers do not prevent his Front Benchers reduce the cost of our welfare bill so we can pay for these incredibly important governmental function ? on Home Office responsibility for domestic security , the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . that be why it be important that , under the new definition of NATO , resilience at home be now include , because cyber - attack be commonplace , energy have be weaponise , and many counter - terrorism operation have to be carry out in relation to state threat . we be very careful in the spending review to ensure that there be adequate money on all those threat . I go through that myself , so I can give he that assurance . on money come in and out of the country , he will no doubt want to celebrate that we have have record investment under this Labour Government in the past 12 month : £ 120 billion , include the single big investment of £ 40 billion two day ago from Amazon , which be a sign of confidence in this government that will be measure in many job across the country . rochdale have be a proud home for Ukrainians ever since they be force to flee soviet starvation , murder and oppression in the 1930 and 1940 , so many in my constituency will warmly welcome the decision to send 350 advanced air missile to Ukraine , build in Britain and pay for by the interest on seized russian asset . do the Prime Minister agree that Russia , not Ukraine , should pay the price for Putin ' s barbaric war ? yes , I do . it be very important that when we send those missile to Ukraine , we emphasise : first , that we be support Ukraine , as we have do throughout ; and secondly , that that be pay for not by the british taxpayer , but with the interest on russian asset that have be freeze . do the Prime Minister agree that , in the context of the threat pose by Putin , we must provide more guidance and support to Britons to prepare they for the possibility of a future conflict , and that that should involve a national resilience campaign ? I do think we need to focus on resilience . in a sense , the shift to 5 % be a reflection that national resilience be become ever more central in our own national defence , in particular on : cyber , where there be frequent attack from other state ; energy , where we have see from the Ukraine conflict that energy have be weaponise ; and counter - terrorism , with state - back action in this country , many of which have be thwart . but the hon . Lady be absolutely right that we need to do more on resilience . while the Prime Minister be in his rightful place at the NATO summit this week , I be in my constituency for the opening of the Janet Harvey hall , a £ 250 million installation that will turbocharge shipbuilding in this country and put it in the service of our defence sector . the Prime Minister know Govan shipbuilding very well . labour recognise that the defence of our country be now inextricably link with the growth of our economy and investment in our public service , but that view be not universally share . I therefore ask the Prime Minister to urge the SNP Government to back our defence sector as we do , for the sake of job and prosperity in Glasgow South West and beyond . I urge the SNP to back our defence spend and the job that bring with it , but also our defence stance . as I understand its position , the SNP be against the single most effective capability we have , which be our nuclear deterrent , at a time of the great volatility we have see for decade . that be simply wrong in principle , and I urge the SNP to change it . at the NATO summit , be the Prime Minister able to add his voice to the congratulation and thank that the NATO Secretary - General pay to President Trump for the successful military strike on Iran ' s nuclear programme ? we have long argue that Iran should not be capable of have a nuclear weapon , and what happen on Saturday night be a big step to alleviate that threat . that be the subject of many comment at the NATO summit , along with the congratulation for the ceasefire that have now be broker and the emphasis we now need on get Iran around the negotiating table , because if it be to be irreversible and verifiable , it be important that it be do through negotiation . that be what we be focus on . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , especially on defence . politic be about priority and , as I know he know , the most important responsibility of Government be the defence of the country and its people . I echo the sensible point make by the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) — sadly , they be not make by those on the Opposition Front Bench — and in particular his point about our intelligence service , who be the fine in the world . there be those whom we will never know and never see , but who have keep this place , our democracy and our community safe . will the Prime Minister assure I that , as we seek to invest more in defence , there be a particular focus on support our intelligence service ? my hon . friend make a good point . our intelligence service do an incredible job , and I pay tribute to they . as he will know , from now on , where the intelligence service be contribute to our national defence , that will be include in our defence spend . it will not be include in the 2 . 5 % — that be core defence , as always understand — but will be add to it , take it to 2 . 6 % in 2027 - 28 . it will not have escape anyone ' s notice that while the Prime Minister be rightly away at the G7 and NATO summit , he make ten of billion of pound of unfunded spending commitment , yet next week he expect Members of Parliament to vote with he to remove money from disabled people who need help to go to the toilet . how can he justify make a moral argument for security abroad while remove security from disabled people at home ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , when we announce the 2 . 5 % increase in defence spending , we make it very clear where that money be come from , and it be not come from welfare spend , as he very well know . I do believe in the moral duty — and it be a moral duty — to defend our country , which mean work with our NATO ally to ensure that we have the most effective deterrent . he can not give lecture on the moral duty to protect our country while maintain a position of cast aside the single most effective deterrent we have . that be unserious . I recently visit a NATO air force base in Poland as part of the armed force parliamentary scheme I be take part in with the RAF . there , I see at first hand the importance of work closely with our NATO ally to defend our nation and keep we secure , as we witness the scramble to the sky to ward off russian fighter jet . will the Prime Minister confirm that he be prioritise the wellbeing of our armed force personnel , both at home and abroad , so that they can continue to keep we and our ally safe ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . it be , of course , Armed Forces Week . among other thing , we have give the armed force their single big pay increase in many year , and make a strong commitment to other aspect , include their accommodation . it be important that we recognise and reflect what they do for our country , and that we ensure we be able to retain the brilliance of our armed force . I very much welcome NATO ' s commitment to 3 . 5 % core defence spending , and 5 % on a broad definition by 2035 , for all NATO member state . however , the Prime Minister and the Government have publish spend figure only up until 2030 . when will they publish public spending plan for 2030 to 2035 ? be it not incumbent on they to show how the target of 3 . 5 % for core defence spending will be meet by the Government ? otherwise , it be just an unfunded promise . as the hon . Gentleman will know , when we present the strategic defence review , we have already set out the path to 2 . 5 % and the ambition for 3 % . I think it be right that all NATO ally have now agree the 5 % by 2035 , subject , of course , to review in 2029 of both the trajectory and balance . the reason for that , as he will understand , be that NATO itself be review its capability in 2029 , and the review will therefore coincide . diplomacy be the good way to prevent and de - escalate risk and ensure long - term security . what discussion take place on how to escalate the focus on diplomacy in the middle east in order to resolve the situation in Gaza — clearly , the architecture be not deliver at pace — as well as on the forget war in Sudan ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I reassure she that we be have discussion with other leader not just at NATO and the G7 , but on a daily basis about the architecture and the path , and how we can use diplomacy to get to a ceasefire in Gaza , and to a much well place in Sudan ; I thank she for raise Sudan , which be not raise often enough . we be do that at speed , and be try to bring as many ally with we as possible . if the Iran ceasefire hold — I hope that it will — that will create the space to say that now be the time for that ceasefire in Gaza . that be only the first step , of course , in the route first to recovery , and then to a two - state solution . after a worrying start , President Trump have now strengthen NATO , both by extract promise of more money and with the positive comment he make at the end of the summit . have the Prime Minister have a chance to assess whether that mean that President Trump ' s love affair with Vladimir Putin be begin to cool ? first , I think it be really important that NATO be unite in the way that it be last night , and I do not just mean the comment of President Trump — I mean have the whole 32 country on the same page at a really important moment for NATO . the right hon . Gentleman will understand how much hard work , guile and diplomacy go into ensure that be the outcome . I think there be a real sigh of relief around the world that this be the position . on Putin , we be urge that this be the moment to push far to get Putin to the table for an unconditional ceasefire ; President Zelensky have say for many week that he be prepared for those talk . we discuss that as ally , and I have discuss it many time with President Trump , as the right hon . Gentleman would expect . would the Prime Minister care to comment on what our adversary will think when they hear the Leader of the opposition mistakenly say that we can not afford our defence commitment ? do such a fatuous response keep our country safe ? no , it do not . it be frankly embarrassing to suggest that I should not have be at NATO or the G7 , and I think the Leader of the Opposition ' s Back Benchers recognise that . that be not the traditional position of the conservative party , and the soon the Conservatives get back to their former position , the well . be there any discussion about the kill zone that currently constitute the provision of humanitarian aid in Gaza ? yes , there be . there be real concern about the intolerable position in Gaza and what we can do to alleviate it . we have repeatedly say that it be intolerable , and that the current arrangement for aid be never go to work and can not be maintain . urgent diplomacy be under way to alleviate that situation , and we will continue with those effort . I strongly welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement on defence spending , especially during Armed Forces Week . do he agree that this be a landmark , historic commitment , reflect both the scale of the threat that we face and this Labour Government ' s commitment to the security and defence of our country ? I agree with my hon . friend : the commitment be landmark . it be very important , it show the resolve of NATO , and it reflect the resolve of this Labour Government . I be pleased that we be closely involve in craft and bring together the agreement that be reach yesterday . the democratic primary in the most cosmopolitan city in the world have demonstrate that people will no long support hypocritical and disingenuous politician . I be sure that the whole House agree that Iran must not have nuclear weapon , but as a lawyer , the Prime Minister will understand that the attack on Iran by Israel and the US do not engage the Caroline principle , which allow for a pre - emptive strike . do the Prime Minister agree with that analysis ? if he do not , can he say from the Dispatch Box that he support those attack ? if we all agree that Iran should not have nuclear weapon , it be about time that we do something about it . what happen on Saturday night be a big step towards alleviate that threat , which be important . we now need to complete on that . the way to do that be through the talk that be now need to get Iran back to the table , in order to make sure that the position be irreversible and can be verify , and that be what we be focus on . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s leadership in recognise the need for a strategic response . it have be 35 year since the Options for Change defence review begin bring down defence spending from 4 . 1 % of gdp . we have spend that dividend , gamble that we would not need to defend our value , and a generation have benefit from that bet , but now we must take our chip off the table and reinvest in our security . do the Prime Minister agree that we must level with the public about the threat that we face and the cost of under - investment in our armed force ? yes , I do agree . that be why we have begin the hard work of reverse the damage do under the previous Government . my hon . friend be right about the dividend that have be enjoy , but we must now make sure that there be a defence dividend — that high spending in that area be reflect in good , well - pay job in the United Kingdom that boost our economy across all part of our community . the former Prime Minister have just welcome the US military action against Iran at the weekend . why can not the Prime Minister bring himself to welcome it , too ? I have say that we need to alleviate the threat , and that we have take a huge step towards alleviate the threat . I have discuss that with G7 and NATO colleague , and with President Trump . everybody be very pleased that there be such unity on it . the forced deportation of child be illegal under international law , yet Russia continue to steal Ukraine ' s future , one child at a time . be the issue of Ukraine ' s steal child discuss with our ally ? what more be be do to return those child to their home and family ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the matter . she have campaign hard on this . it be central that if there be to be a ceasefire and a last peace in Ukraine — and I hope that there be — it must involve the return of the child . we have discuss that many time , and will continue to do so . since the second world war , our national security have be base broadly on three pillar : our physical defence , which the Prime Minister mention in his statement ; the alliance that we have build , which he also mention ; and the international rule - base order , which he do not mention . what discussion do he have at either summit about the importance of international law , and the undermining of its credibility through the inconsistent way that it have be apply in the conflict in Ukraine and in Gaza ? in particular , do he try to persuade President Trump to lift the United States sanction on the International Criminal Court ? I have long be an advocate of the international rule - base order , and I discuss that regularly with ally . NATO itself be a rule - base framework , and an important one at that . we need to maintain these rule - base system to make sure that they be fit for purpose . I would add that the same be true for trade and the economy . as a member of the cross - party UK delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , I have have the opportunity to meet ukrainian Members of Parliament , who make the powerful case for continue support from NATO ally . it have become clear in recent month that other country in the region — Poland and the baltic state of Estonia , Lithuania , Latvia — be grow ever more nervous about their vulnerability to invasion by Russia . can the Prime Minister comment on the UK ' s effort and dialogue with those country at this unsettling time ? do he agree that the security of the baltic state be important for our national security ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that the baltic state be incredibly nervous at the moment . that have be the case for the past three year or so . we engage with they regularly , and I engage with their leader regularly . they have be bring into the coalition of the willing , and on the occasion when they can not attend , I have a special session with they , because their concern be of such importance to we . I welcome the increase to defence spending and the revise target . early this year , at the spring statement , we see cut to official development assistance — the overseas aid budget — to fund defence increase . the ODA budget be integral to our international security abroad , so will the Prime Minister rule out any further cut to this budget for defence spending increase ? the hon . member be right to emphasise the importance of overseas aid , and that be a difficult decision . I want to put it back up to 0 . 7 % , rather than take it down . in the meantime , I be explore other way that we can find funding for overseas aid , and work with other country to that end , because I do not think that we can just wait until we be in a position to increase the funding again . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement today , and the leadership that he be show on the world stage in really uncertain time , which , beyond the confine of this place , I know be genuinely welcome in my community in Hertford and Stortford . as we mark Armed Forces Week , veteran and servicemen in my constituency will welcome the Government ' s commitment to strengthen our national security , so for the benefit of my constituent , can the Prime Minister set out a little more how we be support our armed force to keep we safe and honour the service of veteran across the country ? let I first pay tribute to the veteran in my hon . friend ' s constituency and across the country . we have already put in place a number of initiative , particularly in relation to homelessness and veteran , and more broadly in relation to accommodation and the support for not just veteran , but our armed service personnel . that be vital not only as a reflection of their contribution , but to ensure that we deal with the retention crisis among those serve , which be cause by the conservative party . although we may disagree on the detail , I agree with the Prime Minister that , as far as possible in this place , it would be well to keep partisan politic out of national security issue . who know , I may get the Whip withdraw for say that , but so be it . there be thing that go beyond party politic . I thank the Prime Minister for all his hard work in the national security interest of this country . on the G7 , the Prime Minister mention sanction . in his statement , he say that he urge the United States to do more on sanction . be he aware that the United States be actually urge the United Kingdom to do more on sanction when it come to Russia ? can the magnitsky legislation be widen and deepen , so that it capture more russian asset , and possibly other country that may have sanction impose on they soon — for example , Georgia ? the joint expeditionary force be mention at the NATO summit . the Prime Minister will know , have attend the Norway meeting some week ago , that Ukraine be a JEF partnership nation . do the UK support Ukraine become a full member of the joint expeditionary force ? if so , when might that happen ? I thank the right hon . member for his question ; they be all good one , so I will endeavour to answer each part of they . sanction be be discuss intensely , as he will understand , and there be two element . the first be the immediate application of sanction in relation to Russia . we be attempt to ensure that we all act together — the US , the UK and the EU . that be the focus of our discussion and what we be urge on the US . the right hon . Member will know that there be a piece of legislation in the US that be ready to go ; that need to be co - ordinated with what we be do . in the long term , we need to look always at whether there be more we can do within the framework on sanction , and we can discuss that in this House . the right hon . member raise an important point about Ukraine and the JEF . we have be a lead advocate of Ukraine have a role in the JEF . Ukraine already have an enhance partnership with the JEF — the first of its kind . that be do the last JEF meeting that we have in Norway a few month ago , where we be one of the lead nation push for that great involvement . we will see over time whether that partnership can be take far , either with the JEF or NATO , but it be an important first step — not only a reflection for Ukraine but also a message to Russia . I thank the Prime Minister for his leadership in represent we around the world in the last two week — exactly where he should be . do the Prime Minister want to remind the Conservatives that it be a Labour Government who last spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , and can he set out how increase our defence spending will keep our country safe and support high - quality manufacturing job in West Bromwich and the whole nation ? I be happy to remind the House that we have 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence spending under the last Labour Government , and we will have it under this Labour Government . in 14 long year , the Conservatives do not do that . I welcome the increase in defence spending . will the Prime Minister take this opportunity to explain where the money be come from , particularly as his Government continue to weaken our economy and when another expensive benefit u - turn — on top of the winter fuel u - turn — be on its way ? the right hon . Lady must have miss the record investment in our country in the last 12 month of £ 120 billion , the four interest rate cut , and the fast growth in the G7 in the first quarter of this year . every time we have increase defence spending , as we do with the 2 . 5 % , we have at the same time set out where the money be come from . I find the Leader of the Opposition incredibly disappointing , so goodness know what those on her own Benches think . while she be talk Britain down , may I commend the Prime Minister for the leadership he have show this week ? could he say a little more about how business in the defence supply chain , particularly in the Teesside defence and innovation cluster , can contribute to the national mission for defence and security ? there be two or three principle here . first , we need to see the increase to our defence spend reflect in good , well - pay job in constituency across the country . secondly , the big sector in defence will obviously benefit , but we have also put together a hub for small supply chain business — which , whether defence - specific or not , be in pretty well every constituency — to ensure that they take advantage of the contract and extra spending on defence . in that way , we can ensure that there be a dividend back in the United Kingdom from the extra spend we be put in place . there have be some recent confusion from Defence Ministers surround the purchase of 12 F - 35A nuclear - capable fast jet . can the Prime Minister please inform the House of the propose in - service date for this important capability ? we make the commitment to that capability , and we be now talk to ally about precisely what the timetable will be ; I will update the House . the important thing be that the commitment be there . it be a commitment to the NATO initiative , and it bring we within that initiative . therefore , there be a lot of move part , but we have make a very firm commitment , and I will set out the timeline and progress on that in due course . F - 35As — hard power ; BBC World Service — soft power . do the Prime Minister agree that the World Service be a crucial element of our soft convening power ? yes . I have long be a supporter of the BBC World Service . my hon . friend ' s question chime with other question about the soft power of this country . we have incredible soft power and incredible strength in our diplomacy , and that very often achieve result in a way that then make it less necessary to use the hard power . there be scepticism in my constituency that the increase in defence spending might create good local job there . as I have already pitch to the Chancellor and the Defence Secretary , and early this month to the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry , alongside my local authority ceo , I know that Huntingdon be recognise as the home of UK defence intelligence capability and of US operation in Europe as well as NATO ' s . give that 10 % of the equipment budget be now pledge for develop new technology , along with the £ 400 million defence innovation fund , will the Prime Minister back my commitment to leverage the designation of RAF Wyton as a Ministry of Defence trailblazer site to build a defence technology cluster that will create highly technical local job and build new defence capability from Huntingdon ? I think the hon . Member be in discussion with Ministers about this , and we look forward to take that forward . in relation to the scepticism of his Huntingdon constituent , I reassure they that this increase defence spend will bring yield to Huntingdon in the defence - specific sector and in the supply chain . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement and his leadership . the International Development Committee recently publish a report show that international humanitarian law be under threat like never before and that attack on aid worker be rise . can the Prime Minister assure the House that the UK will be a champion for IHL , and could he elaborate on conversation about uphold it in relation to Gaza as well as Sudan and the many other country around the world ravage by conflict ? we have an absolute commitment to international humanitarian law , and it be extremely important that we keep to that , whether in Gaza or Sudan . it be the framework through which we make our decision . when it come to the evil of terrorism and aggression across the middle east , all path lead back to the iranian regime — be that the sponsorship of Hamas , Hezbollah , the Houthis or , indeed , at the heart of the regime , the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps . although I fully appreciate that the Prime Minister will not speculate on proscription from the Dispatch Box , will he at least reflect on how it can be that , despite call from both side of the House over many year to proscribe the irgc , it still have not happen , not least give that he take the right and proper action to proscribe Palestine Action after the attack on Brize Norton last week ? how be it that the irgc still sit un - proscribe ? as the hon . Gentleman know , we keep proscription under constant review and will not hesitate to take the most effective measure against the iranian regime . he will know that we have already sanction the irgc in its entirety , include individual commander , but we do keep the matter under constant review . I praise the Prime Minister for his work on the new 5 % target and on ensure that we reach it for our national security and core defence . do he agree that just as the Labour Government in the 1940 help to found NATO , this Labour Government could help found a multilateral defence development bank that would ensure that we reach 5 % by the mid - 2030s ? there be a debate go on across ally as to how we can work together on the increase spending : on the spend itself ; on the financial arrangement , be that development bank or other arrangement ; and on ensure that we co - ordinate our capability , because the last thing we want be everybody spend more money in an unco - ordinate way . there have be intense discussion about that . the situation in Scotland be very difficult . I welcome the news that we be to go far with our at - sea deterrent , and of course the nuclear missile Trident boat be base at Faslane . but as we have hear , First Minister John Swinney and his SNP Administration do not back nuclear weapon . far , they have create a hostile environment for defence firm in Scotland because they will not back any firm that make ordnance . this week we have also hear former First Minister Humza Yousaf claim — wrongly — that allow our american ally to use the Prestwick air base to refuel be some kind of war crime . what can we do to nullify the threat to british security from these fifth columnist ? beat they . this be not just the usual politic ; it be a serious question of national security . the at - sea nuclear deterrent be house in Scotland , and just a few month ago I go and see one of the sub come back in . it be a very humbling experience , quite frankly , and I get an even deep sense of what they do for our country . it should be support in its own right and as an essential deterrent . that matter be among the reason that we need a change of Government in Scotland . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s statement , which show that international co - operation and the ability to forge relationship of trust and human empathy be sign of strength , not weakness . our country be strong for his leadership and pursuit of peace globally through diplomatic mean . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that we can deter war and defend our ally such as Ukraine only if outward - look diplomacy be back up by ever strong armed force and an ever strong economy ; that those matter ought to unify all in the House ; and that it be very unfortunate that we have see petty , party political game from the Leader of the Opposition ? I agree . all I can say be that , in fairness , I see on the face of some conservative Members disquiet at the approach that the Leader of the Opposition take . that be not surprising . under the 5 % defence investment pledge , resilience spending appear to include energy infrastructure . give the evidence about Chinese - make cellular internet module and kill switch , will he say categorically that China must be keep out of all critical infrastructure , include wind turbine and solar panel ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise the issue . obviously , we carefully review and monitor any chinese involvement in any element of security . but it be right that we now include resilience in our overall definition of national spend , and act accordingly . I thank the Prime Minister for his commitment to keep our country safe and for his effective diplomacy to that end . while our international aid budget be now diminish , it remain my belief that the work we do to prevent and respond to humanitarian crisis around the world play a crucial role in global stability and security and , in turn , in our own . can the Prime Minister reaffirm his commitment to that vital role for the UK in the world ? yes , I can . my hon . friend be right to raise the issue and describe it as she do . we be a leader on this and continue to be . we want to get our aid budget back up , but in the meantime I want to work with other country to find other way of financing that support as a matter of some urgency . I welcome the increase in defence spending , but how on earth be the Prime Minister go to pay for it when his party can not agree on a small reduction in the welfare bill ? when we go to 2 . 5 % , we set out in clear term both the date and the way we would pay for it . that be the way we do business on the Government side of the House . for 14 year , the conservative party lose control of the economy , leave our armed force hollow out and leave a £ 22 billion black hole . frankly , they be in no position to lecture anyone about these issue — still less after the response of the Leader of the Opposition , which show exactly why the party be slide into irrelevance . it be clear today that the Leader of the opposition should never represent the United Kingdom on the world stage — it be absolutely outrageous . I be grateful to my right hon . and learn Friend for his statement . follow the comment of other hon . member , may I ask he what assessment he have make of the potential opportunity for Scotland - base defence and aerospace industry , which already support hundred of job in Coatbridge and Bellshill , arise from the expectation that spending will reach 4 . 1 % of gdp by 2027 ? do he share my concern that the SNP ' s disjointed defence policy risk job and investment in Scotland ? we need to fight that at all cost . my hon . friend should not worry too much about the Leader of the Opposition represent our country — she never will . if she do , presumably the chair at the NATO summit would have a little sticky note on it say , " busy at pmq " . that be how unserious her point be . on the substantive question of job in Scotland , there be now the real potential to build on what Scotland do . it have a proud history in relation to our defence and security . this provide an opportunity to build on that platform . I thank the Prime Minister very much for his statement . nobody in the House can doubt the sincerity of his careful word and commitment to what be good for the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland at the G7 and NATO summit . the Prime Minister will be aware of my support for Israel and that of so many in this great nation . the situation be , I believe , one of the major issue of the summit . can the Prime Minister please outline whether time be take , with our close ally , the United States of America , to discuss step that can be take to cut the head off the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , ensure that the USA bombing of the iranian nuclear programme be a success and thereby secure a truce and last peace in the middle east ? I assure the hon . Gentleman that we have that discussion with our US ally , both at leader level and between our team , on an ongoing and constant basis . Israel have the right to be safe and secure , and it be neither safe nor secure at the moment . we have to be absolutely clear about that and about the right of Israel to defend itself . that mean discussion about the IRGC and Iran , which have be a constant source of threat , terror and conflict in the region . yes , we discuss not just the attack on Saturday , but the further measure that can be take to ensure that Iran never have the capability to develop nuclear weapon . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and his leadership — something that I be sure be welcome by our ally around the world , if not by the Opposition . my right hon . and learn Friend mention that there be now a window of opportunity for peace in the middle east . I be sure that we would all want that to come to fruition . however , give the continuation of deadly attack on palestinian people seek food , can the Prime Minister advise , follow his discussion , whether there be any prospect of Israel allow the United Nations and other humanitarian organisation to resume food distribution in an ordered and fair way ? they should do that , and we be urge that they do . the current arrangement be intolerable and be never go to work ; we need to be really clear about that . we will continue to urge that , with our ally and talk to leader across the region , as my hon . friend would expect . but now be also the time to push on for the broad ceasefire , to alleviate the situation more generally and allow a path to open for the long - term conflict resolution that be need . it be the first duty of any Government and Prime Minister to keep this country safe . the Prime Minister take that role incredibly seriously , in stark contrast to what we have see today from the Leader of the Opposition . the Prime Minister have visit Blackpool many time since become leader of our party . at Blackpool sixth - form college , young people tell he that they be cry out for local job in the Blackpool area , to keep they there . will he ensure that the defence increase to 5 % , which be welcome , create the decent , well pay job on the Fylde coast so that young people in Blackpool can get those job where they live ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s question . I have visit Blackpool many time , as he know . I know first hand just how important it be for those young people to see money go into their economy , with job in Blackpool for they . I profoundly remember ask a group of 17 - year - old , I think , at a sixth - form college in Blackpool how many be proud to be from Blackpool . they all put their hand up . when I ask they how many think that their future job would be in Blackpool , only one put their hand up ; the rest all think they would have to leave Blackpool to get the job they want . we need to turn that around . this give we an opportunity to start do that . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement today . from a personal point of view , I thank he for his recent visit to Harlow and Downs primary school , which recently receive an excellent ofsted report . do the Prime Minister agree that to achieve the sustainable and long - term peace that we all so desperately want — in the middle east , in Gaza , in Ukraine and in Sudan — we must work together with one voice and with all our NATO ally ? that be why his leadership on a global level be so important and why it be so important that he attend all these event to represent our proud nation . my most recent visit to the primary school be to roll out our free school meal policy . I be happy to do that by serve school meal myself — if all else fail , I ' ve get a back - up . my hon . friend be absolutely right . at a time like this , the House usually come together and speak with one voice , and we be the more powerful for it . President Zelensky have tell I on a number of occasion how much that mean for his people . in fairness to the Conservative party , it have always be resolute on Ukraine . the Leader of the Opposition need to look again at her approach . at a time like this , the soon we get back to the kind of cross - party unity that we have , the well . our adversary know that when they see unity here , that be much more of a problem for they than when they see unserious division . Supply and Appropriation ( Main Estimates ) ( no . 2 ) Bill Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 56 ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . question put forthwith , that the Bill be now read the third time . question agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Armed Forces Day I beg to move , that this House have consider Armed Forces Day . this week , our nation come together to give profound thank to the man and woman of our armed force , their family and veteran — the hero who give and sacrifice so much for their country at a time when the world be become increasingly dangerous , unpredictable and insecure . right now , our armed force be help Ukraine to defend itself against the might of Russia by supply kit and equipment , nearly three and a half year into a war that Putin think would be over in three day . our armed force be in Singapore with the UK carrier strike group lead by HMS Prince of Wales , strengthen Britain ' s tie with the Indo - Pacific . they be operate as part of every NATO mission alongside our ally , keep the peace in zone of potential conflict , and our people be work in the middle east to de - escalate tension and stabilise the region . our armed force be contribute to UN peacekeeping force around the world , help to bring hope to war - tear community , and they be protect our shore at home , ready at a moment ' s notice to respond to any emerge threat . the member of our armed force be truly the good of Britain , recognise globally for their professionalism and dedication . this week , in Armed Forces Week , we have a chance to say thank you : to they for their service ; to their family for their understanding at the time when they be away ; and to the people in the defence industry , the supply chain and the technology company who support our man and woman in uniform and help they continue to have the fighting edge that keep our country safe . apart from the year affect by covid restriction , 2024 be the first since the inception of Armed Forces Day in which there be no national event . this government be proud to have restore that this year , back three day of celebration in Cleethorpes . as my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) know , it be a community that carry a long tradition of not just honour our armed force , but shape and support they . from the local RAF station at North Coates , which be home to the Coastal Command strike wing during world war two , disrupt enemy supply chain with great success , to today ' s active veteran group such as nel4heroe , which do outstanding work in North East Lincolnshire help veteran to return to civilian life . although the big celebration will take place in Cleethorpes , where the Defence Secretary will be this weekend , there be more than 180 other event take place across our nation . early this week , my ministerial colleague Lord Coaker be among the large crowd that turn out in Northern Ireland to celebrate Armed Forces Day . I be fortunate to be there and have the opportunity to meet Lord Coaker . I be clear to he , as be the 60 , 000 people who turn out to commend and celebrate such a wonderful occasion . will the Minister outline later on what can be do to recruit more territorial Army soldier ? will there be flexibility with employer and job and course that people can do to enlarge the number of cadet ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his year of service . it be in Westminster Hall yesterday that he add up all the year that he serve in uniform . I think it be 14 and a half year in total in various role . indicate assent . I thank he for his service to our country . it be vital that we address the retention and recruitment crisis that we inherit from the previous Government . we be make good progress in that regard . a key part of that be not only recruit new people to our regular force , but make it easy to join the reserve . whether people serve full time , part time or in their spare time , there be an opportunity for people around the country to contribute to our armed force . the Minister for Veterans and People will set out further step as to how we will improve our reserve as we approach the armed force Bill in the next session of Parliament . he will make the case that improve our reserve make we safe , but also provide more opportunity for the nation to have a close connection with those people who serve as well . one of the 180 event that the Minister mention will be Armed Forces Day in Andover , which I will attend on Saturday . as the Minister know , Andover be home to the Army ' s land force headquarters . will he reflect on the importance of the work of celebrate the armed force in the community that physically embrace their headquarters , camp and residence , to sustain that connection between the non - uniformed civilian population and those who protect they on a daily basis ? I thank the right hon . member for his attendance at an Armed Forces Day event this weekend . as someone who represent Devonport , which be home to western Europe ' s large naval dockyard , I be acutely aware of the relationship , the important history and the connection today between our military , the civilian who , in Devonport ' s case , support the fleet , and our wide community , include veteran . it be absolutely right that we tell the story of that connection , not just by look back at the battle of previous year and those people who never return from war , but by make the case that invest in our defence today create good , well - pay job . it provide opportunity for our young people and it be one of the source of great pride that our Army , our Navy and our Air Force all feature among the top five employer of apprentice in the country . it be a huge opportunity to celebrate the skill that we have and the connection between our people . all our community be proud of our armed force , and this weekend be a great opportunity to say that again . my hon . friend know that recently I have the great privilege of visit our base in Erbil , in the Kurdistan region of Iraq , where I see for myself the dedicated service of the troop and their officer , who be do huge work to help that regional government , thereby enhance regional and british security . they be a credit to this country and we owe they a debt of gratitude . we should also remember that there be so many serviceman and woman overseas who be do difficult work , sometimes in harm ' s way . on Armed Forces Day , we must remember all those serve officer and soldier as well . may I thank my hon . friend for his remark ? it be a good reminder that on Armed Forces Day and in Armed Forces Week , there will be parliamentarian from all side of the House visit local community and make the case for the armed force in their community . there will be people from community right around our country , however , who will not be at those celebration because they will be serve on the frontline overseas , help to project UK power and influence , help to stabilise region and help to ensure that we de - escalate tension . the work that our force do in the middle east may have be in the news quite a lot recently , but the work that they do that be often not cover in the news be just as vital for our national security and worthy of our praise and thank . I be sure that there be cross - party support for the work that they do across the middle east . the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry will be in Liverpool this weekend , celebrate alongside her community of Liverpool Garston at Armed Forces Day event . the Minister for Veterans and People will be in Coventry , have complete a tour of many of our community nationwide make the case for further investment in service to support our veteran . indeed , support those who have serve be a vital part of this Government ' s work . many celebration will take place across Scotland and Wales , include in Edinburgh where the Under - Secretary of State for Scotland , my hon . friend the Member for Midlothian ( Kirsty McNeill ) will be attend . I will be back home in Plymouth , which be home not only to Devonport but to Stonehouse , the spiritual home of the Royal Marines . we will be out in force on the Hoe on Saturday . for those people not familiar with Plymouth ' s geography and our international viewer , the Hoe have a wonderful clifftop view of Plymouth sound — it be nothing more sinister than that . as the son of a Royal Navy submariner , I be proud to represent my home town , which be not only steep in military history , but play a pivotal role in protect Britain today . have grow up as a Navy brat , I know that many remarkable people in defence tend to dismiss their achievement as " just part of the job " — a humility that define service in our country . but I know what they do , how they go well beyond the expectation of a normal day job , how they shoulder immense responsibility with great modesty and , support by their family , how they perform the ultimate public service . through the Government ' s strategic defence review and defence reform , we be put much more emphasis on our people and on renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve . the most troubling thing I have see recently in relation to our people be the continuous attitude survey , which reveal that only a quarter of our service personnel believe that they be value by society . I encourage member who have not read the late continuous attitude survey to do so : it tell the story of what our people think . although we be now see morale stabilising , after a decade of it fall across all three service , the fact that they do not feel value by society should be a wake - up call for all of we in think about how we talk about and support our armed force . I apologise for not be in the Chamber when the Minister refer to my constituency early . this weekend we will host the national Armed Forces Day event , which will be fantastic . he mention remember our veteran and our people , and Saturday will be a true celebration of all the work that so many people put into make sure that we be safe and secure every day . I thank my hon . friend for all the work that she put into make the case for Cleethorpes to host the first of the renew national day event . I know that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State be look forward to attend event in Cleethorpes this weekend and to hear not only from those people who serve today , but the young people of the cadet in her community , who may be those who serve in the future , and the veteran who have serve our nation . I be look forward to event in Plymouth , but I know that the event in Cleethorpes will be the centre of our national attention this weekend , and rightly so . do the Minister recognise that the UK ' s armed force be a visible manifestation of the philosophy and value that underpin the country ? if society do not value the armed force , would he concede that it might be because we have consistently fail to defend the principle and value that underpin our society ? we should confront the accusation , for example , that this be an inherently racist country , which it absolutely be not , and that our history be not something to be proud of . perhaps then wide society would appreciate the man and woman who defend not just the physical country but our value , our history and our philosophy . I share the right hon . Gentleman ' s passion for tell our nation ' s story . to tell our full story , we have to explain the good bit and , sometimes , the bad bit , but at all time we can look at the bravery , courage and service of our armed force as a source of national pride . I also look at our armed force today as the embodiment of some of our british value . I believe in equality : it be very important to I personally . when I think about our soldier operate in Estonia at the moment , ready to deter a russian move across the border , the colour of their skin , their religion , where they come from or their accent do not matter . all that matter be that in that unit , everyone have each other ' s back and be proud of our country , proud of their service and proud of the reason they be there . armed force week be an opportunity to remind people of the difficult job we ask our people to do and to thank they for it . the right hon . Gentleman be right to talk about the value that stand behind the uniform and why the flag they carry on their arm matter so much — it be not just a piece of cloth ; it represent british value that we should all be proud of . for that reason , it be important that we recognise that our service personnel need to feel more value . the figure have plummet over the past 12 year . we know that word will not address the problem . only action will , and that be why it be so important to award our service personnel their big pay rise for more than two decade and to follow that up with another above - inflation pay rise this year . it be a source of great pride to I as the Minister for the Armed Forces that , for the first time , we can say that every single person in uniform be now pay the living wage . that should always have be the case , but sadly it be not ; it be now . our armed force deserve a lot more than just a decent salary . the cold , damp and mouldy home that many have be live in be a betrayal of their service . after buy back 36 , 000 home from the private sector that be sell off under a previous Conservative Government and save taxpayer more than £ 600 , 000 a day in rent payment , we be deliver a generational renewal of military accommodation , with at least £ 7 billion of funding in this Parliament to tackle the poor state of force housing . I take this opportunity to mark an important week for our armed force . I welcome everything my hon . Friend say about support for our armed force and their family by way of investment in their home and more money in their pocket . do he agree that support our armed force go way beyond just the equipment that they need on the frontline ? it be about make sure that their family be value through the support that the Government can give they and that they receive from the community they live in . I could not agree with my hon . friend more : that be so important . I be somewhat guilty of this myself , but many of our defence debate have be about kit , platform and — if I have anything to do with it — frigate . we talk about the equipment , but we need to talk about our people . at the heart of the strategic defence review , and the Government ' s policy , be talk more about the family of those who serve . that be why I hope that the Armed Forces Commissioner Bill will become law soon . it put an emphasis on allow service family to access the commissioner to make the case that it be the whole defence family — those who serve in uniform and their family member who back they in their service — that need to be value by this nation . I believe that view be share on a cross - party basis , and we now need to ensure that it be feature in our legislation and in the day - to - day operation of our military . there be more to do on that . on the selling off of military home and the buying back of they by the Labour Government , will the Minister acknowledge that the negotiation for that deal start in May 2024 under the Conservative Government and be complete by the Labour Government ? indeed , and when the announcement be officially make , I recall stand at the Dispatch Box and thank the shadow Secretary of State for Defence , who be not here today , for his work on it . it be a terrible privatisation — truly awful . it represent the bad value for taxpayer and it have doom many of our force family to appal accommodation for far too long . now that that privatisation have end and we have bring those home back into public control , we can invest in they . we need to do that at pace , because people be live today in accommodation with mould and damp . that be not good enough . we need to proceed at pace , and the Minister for Veterans and People who lead on this work in the MOD be as impatient as I be to see the improvement — as I know the hon . Gentleman will be , as someone who represent a military constituency . for the record , the shadow Defence Secretary be not here because he have a very important personal family commitment today . I be honour to stand in for he . have the Minister see our proposal for a ringfenced armed force housing association , to provide well quality accommodation for armed force personnel and their family ? I be sure the House will agree that the right hon . Gentleman be by no mean a poor substitute for the shadow Defence Secretary . we plan to publish our defence housing strategy later this year , which no doubt be not at all in the mind of the shadow Front - Bench team when they publish their proposal ahead of time . I encourage the right hon . gentleman to wait for the full work to be publish in due course , but improve defence housing have to be a priority , because for many year as a nation , we have not deliver what our force deserve — that will now change . this year , we extend the ability to reclaim the cost of wraparound childcare to many of those deploy overseas , and next year we will go far and cover all overseas area to help make family life a little easy . we be legislate for an Armed Forces Commissioner — an independent voice to help improve service life . we make a manifesto commitment to bring the armed force covenant fully into law — a promise make by the nation that those who defend it will be treat fairly and will not be disadvantage because of their service . that include , for example , ensure that service child have the same access to education as other child . we be transform recruitment , and hope that many young people will be inspire to join up after attend Armed Forces Day event this weekend . we be also overhaul access to care and support for veteran through the Valour programme . I turn to veteran because although Armed Forces Day be an opportunity to thank those people in uniform , we should also use it as an opportunity to thank those people who have serve . I very much welcome the work be do to bring the covenant into wide , and legislative , effect , with consequence where it be not apply . that will be important in deliver service to our armed force right across the public sector , but there be a financial consequence . Parliament and Government need to seriously consider how that financial consequence be bear and distribute to ensure that those public service be empower and finance to support armed force personnel and , just as importantly , their wide family in the good way they can . I agree with the hon . gentleman ; it be important that the pledge be make in action and deed , not just word . if we look at the implementation of the armed force covenant across the country at the moment , some area be exceptional and have embrace not just the word of the covenant but the spirit behind it , and other be perhaps a little far behind on the journey . when we look at central Government compare with local government , there be a distinction between the service and the offer . that be why we be put it fully into law . I hope that one thing we will be able to do in have a debate on put the covenant fully into law be to share the good practice we see in local council up and down the country . in this place , there be sometimes a temptation to believe that all good idea must come from the Dispatch Box . I certainly do not believe that , when I can see brilliant councillor of all party make the case for improve the life of veteran , those people who serve and , perhaps most importantly , their family . where the covenant grip most successfully be where we can improve provision for child who may suffer disadvantage because their parent who serve move around so frequently , which mean they sometimes do not get the same access to educational support , special educational need and disability support and other aspect . when that debate happen — it will probably be later this year or the beginning of next year — I hope that all hon . member will be able to participate and take something from that debate to amplify the work of their local council . probably each and every member in this place will have something good to share about the work be do in their area . we owe a substantial debt of gratitude to all those who have serve their country . the Government have an endure duty to recognise their extraordinary contribution and to support they after service . the majority of veteran go on to have successful career and life . we be help they to make the good use of the diverse skill and experience that they have gain — for example , through the career transition partnership and Op ASCEND — but a minority do not find the transition easy and may need extra support . we be create a new £ 50 million network of Valour - recognise support centre across the UK to give veteran easy access to essential care and help . just today , we launch the Valour pilot in the north - west region , at the Imperial War Museum North . we have announce £ 75 million to recognise the historic wrong experience by LGBT veteran in the armed force , which be significantly above the level recommend in the Etherton review . we have also commit additional funding to maintain veteran ' homelessness support programme , ensure that those at risk of homelessness have continue access to specialist help . I appreciate that the Government be work on this issue , but could the Minister update we on the work be do to waive visa fee for family and dependant of our Commonwealth service personnel ? the hon . Member will know that the Ministry of Defence recently publish a write ministerial statement on how we can improve recruitment from the Commonwealth . it be not just about how we expand the pipeline come into our armed force ; we also need to recognise and support those who might be at the end of their service to get the support they need . we have a manifesto commitment to deliver that . the Defence Secretary have speak to the Home Secretary about this , and our official be in dialogue about it . I hope that the Minister for Veterans and People , who look after this area , will be able to announce progress in due course . the hon . Member and I share a strong sense that there be a wrong to be right here , and those people who serve our country for a good period of time should be able to settle here . I think progress will be make , but I recognise his interest in that happen . the magnificent VE day commemoration , as well as the equally historic 80th anniversary of VJ Day in August , have be widely acknowledge as perhaps the last major opportunity to thank those who fight in the second world war . but we be also slowly lose the generation who do national service after the war and , with they , the live bridge they provide to our armed force . we need to reconnect society with our armed force and widen participation in national resilience . this weekend ' s festivity be a great way to kick - start that process , but , as our strategic defence review make clear , we have to be much more proactive as a country about rebuild those connection , particularly with young people . half of the Army ' s current crop of regimental sergeant major be once cadet , so we will boost the cadet force by 30 % by 2030 , create opportunity for 42 , 000 more young people to be a cadet . we will introduce a voluntary gap year scheme for school and college leaver and develop a new UK strategic reserve by 2030 — a fitting objective consider that yesterday be Reserves Day , when we be able to thank the many thousand of reservist who serve this country . they greatly bolster our capability at time of crisis , serve across defence , from the back office to the frontline . they give we the skill , scale and ability to meet the threat we face at home and overseas in a cost - effective way , as the Minister for Veterans and People can attest after serve alongside they on various tour . I have see personally the enormous benefit that experience with our armed force can offer people , particularly young people : purpose , adventure , social mobility , and a unique sense of camaraderie and self - achievement . for many people , it be a route to a much well life . we want to make many more young people aware of the opportunity on offer and the chance to see where service life can take they . as I note early , we be take decisive action to address the recruitment crisis that we inherit . the tortuously slow process that cause so much frustration be be transform . for example , we have eliminate more than 100 outdated medical recruitment policy and we be slash the time it take to access medical record from week to hour . our objective be to reduce the time of flight from application to start at a training establishment . the new 10 - 30 policy introduce by the Secretary of State , which mean applicant will get a decision on a provisional application within 10 day and a start date within 30 day , be a good step towards improve this process , but we know there be much more to do . army recruitment have be completely restructure , and we have act to keep hold of value staff who be most at risk of leave — for example , by introduce retention payment for Army private , lance corporal and aircraft engineer . the result speak for themselves : year - on - year inflow of recruit be up by 19 % and outflow be down by 7 % . the Royal Navy have exceed its yearly recruitment target , and Royal Air Force application be up by a third compare with early 2024 . application to join the Army be at their high level for seven year . as we be discuss the armed service ' recruitment problem , do my hon . friend agree it be very helpful that this Government be able to deliver an above - inflation pay rise of 4 . 5 % for service personnel , recognise their extraordinary professionalism ? in combination with last year ' s 6 % headline award , that represent a cumulative pay award of 10 . 5 % since July 2024 , which can only help with the issue he be discuss . it absolutely do . the strategic defence review talk about a whole - of - society approach , and I view that from both an inside and an outside perspective . as a society , we need to value our armed force more , recognise that we all have a role in build resilience and improve how our nation be defend , but we must also recognise that armed force personnel need to feel more value by the whole of society . ensure that our people be pay well and live in decent home be the foundation of that , and I hope that one day this House will not need to debate the quality of our military accommodation , because the quality will be such that , when we ask our people to move around the country — whether into single living accommodation or service family accommodation — it be simply a give that it be decent . that be our objective , but we have a lot of work still to do . I hope that member across the House will join our armed force and our community this weekend to celebrate the work of our service personnel . as we set about reconnecte the nation to its military , we must remember that service and sacrifice be not value confine to the history book ; they be just as important today as they have ever be , and they be just as visible if we tell their story . those value be embody in Britain ' s armed force . there have never be a more important time to thank they for the fantastic work they do , or to promote the benefit of an armed force career to young people . to all who serve , all who have serve and all their family , we give our deep thank . to those who might serve in the future , we say : come along to an event this weekend and find out what our brilliant armed force could do for you . rise — Order . I be conscious that some member arrive after the start of the debate . ordinarily , that would preclude they from speak , but I understand that the Prime Minister ' s statement have slightly throw our timing . my intention be therefore to accommodate all those in the Chamber who wish to speak , but inevitably those who arrive late will have to take their turn . I call the shadow Minister . give the topic , I be genuinely honour to open this debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition on the subject of Armed Forces Day . I have the honour to be present in New Palace Yard on Monday to watch member of the armed force raise the armed force flag in Parliament , in a ceremony preside over by Mr Speaker and his Chaplain , the Rev . Canon Mark Birch MVO . it be a joyous occasion , and I be pleased to say it be very well attend by many mp . my opposite number , the Armed Forces Minister , be the proud son of a submariner , and I be the equally proud son of Stoker First Class Reginald Francois , who serve on the minesweeper HMS Bressay on D - day . we be both naval brat , as he put it — at least after a fashion . it be now establish that Armed Forces Day be hold on the last Saturday of June . this Saturday there will be many ceremony across the length and breadth of the United Kingdom , include in my county of Essex , and I hope to attend the celebration in Basildon , the town in which I grow up . this be a time when people across our four nation come together to celebrate the role of the whole armed force family — regular , reserve , veteran , cadet and , of course , their love one — in defend our country and our democratic way of life . I will say something about those four category — regular , reserve , cadet and veteran — in my remark this afternoon . begin with reserve , Armed Forces Day and , indeed , Armed Forces Week normally enjoy bipartisan — perhaps I should say tripartisan — support in Parliament . touch on this allow I to say something about the value of the reserve to our armed force . in do so , I declare an interest have serve as an infantry officer in the 5th Battalion the Royal Anglian Regiment , in the Territorial Army , in the 1980 during the cold war , when — this date I — the Berlin wall be still up . I greatly appreciate the extremely important role that our reserve in the Royal Naval Reserve , the Army Reserve , the Royal Auxiliary Air Force , the RAF Volunteer Reserve and other play in support our regular in the defence of the realm . in that context , I recently see an analysis show that , follow the 2024 general election , there be now 17 conservative mp who have serve or be serve in either the regular or reserve armed force of the Crown . however , the Conservatives have no monopoly on military service , as the same survey rightly show that Labour have 13 mp in a similar position and the Liberal Democrats have eight . for completeness , I should add that the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) also serve in the Territorial Army , so he be with we on that point . I sometimes feel that he be always with we — he be virtually omnipresent in the Chamber . it be therefore true to say that the armed force enjoy support across the political spectrum , at least from those of we who be here . I merely note in pass that , yet again , when defence be be discuss in this Chamber there be no Reform MP present to grace our proceeding . it be ironic and tell that member of a party that like to wrap itself in the flag — a flag it do not own — can not be bother to turn up to debate the service of those who loyally serve under that flag . bluntly , Reform do not do defence . nevertheless , I hope that most of what I say in the next few minute will be broadly consensual , with perhaps one exception , which I will come to near the end . the role of our armed force in defend our way of life down the century be just as pertinent today as it have ever be , with the war in Ukraine , where brave Ukrainians continue to resist Vladimir Putin ' s barbaric and illegal invasion of their country , alongside the continue turmoil in the middle east . on the regular , those who serve in our armed force deserve our unstinting and ongoing support . numerous study show that the vast majority of people who serve in the armed force benefit greatly from the experience . as well as serve their country , they often learn valuable skill and trade that make they highly marketable in the civilian job market — indeed , that can be a problem for retention , as the Minister intimate . when I serve as a Defence Minister , albeit over a decade ago , one powerful statistic be that 80 % of those who leave the armed force find a job within six month , and I believe the figure be equally good , if not well , today . People who be smart , discipline and train to turn up on time and to be resourceful be always likely to be attractive to employer . veteran play an important role in my Glastonbury and Somerton constituency , where 11 % of household include at least one veteran . however , female veteran be more than 10 % less likely to be employ than male veteran . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that we must put more support into help female veteran find the right employment after their service ? I agree . we should do everything we can to help all veteran , whatever their gender , to find good employment after their service , and that certainly include female veteran . forgive I , Mr Deputy Speaker , but as it be take place in the hon . Lady ' s constituency , why on earth be Kneecap be allow to appear at the Glastonbury festival ? why on earth have the organiser allow that to take place ? [ interruption . ] move on , we need to bear in mind that without — on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . if I may just correct the right hon . Gentleman , the Glastonbury festival site be not in my constituency . that be not a point of order for the Chair , but I think it be helpful to have the record correct . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . we need to bear employability very much in mind , as without skilled regular personnel to maintain and operate even the most expensive and sophisticated kit , from Typhoon and F - 35 fighter to type 45 destroyer and main battle tank , we can not achieve operational success . in short , without well train people , the equipment count for nothing and do not have the deterrent effect that we seek . when ask at the Royal United Services Institute early this week about the single big challenge that the Royal Navy face , the fleet commander , Vice - Admiral Andrew Burns , reply : " it ' s people right now . it ' s the quantity of people , and it ' s not just recruitment , it ' s retention . " for context , this be not a uniquely british problem . all our five Eyes partner face similar challenge , even the United States , and I shall return to that in a moment . let I turn to cadet . we in this country be fortunate to have an active and enthusiastic cadet movement , and while we welcome the proposal in the White Paper to expand the cadet even far , we would like to see more detail about how exactly that will be achieve . cadet unit play a vital role in foster discipline teamwork and a sense of service among young people , provide invaluable opportunity for personal development , and serve as a pathway to a career in the armed force , should the young person desire that . whether we be minister , shadow Ministers or otherwise , we be all ultimately constituency mp , so I pay tribute to the Army cadet detachment in Rayleigh and Wickford , which be part of C company in the Essex Army Cadet Force , both of which I have visit . I hope to see the Rayleigh detachment again shortly , not least as it appear that it will need to find a new home within the next several year . I also highlight the valuable work undertake by 1474 ( Wickford ) Squadron of the Air Training Corps , and their sister unit , 1476 ( Rayleigh ) Squadron Air Training Corps ; I declare an interest in the latter , as I recently have the honour of be appoint honorary squadron president . its motto be " Amanogawa " , which be japanese for heavenly river , and I can confirm that they be in full flow . over the year , I have hear a number of hon . member pay full tribute in the Chamber to their cadet unit ; I will chance my arm and say that I be sure we will rightly hear praise for more cadet unit before the debate be out . they be a fundamental part of the armed force family . I thank not only the young people who sign up , but those adult who give of their time , voluntarily , to provide instruction and leadership for these outstanding young people . let I turn to veteran . as one example of work that can be do to protect veteran , I commend to the House an initiative know as the Forcer protocol . the idea be name after Alan Forcer , who serve in the British Army for a number of year in several theatre , but who sadly take his own life after a struggle with complex post - traumatic stress disorder . his widow , Claire Lilly , come to see I at my constituency surgery a number of year ago , and tell I that she be determined to channel her grief in a positive way , by establish a system to help find and protect veteran who go miss . when I meet Claire , I be strike by her absolute determination to succeed , and I be pleased to tell the House that that be exactly what she do . in short , the Forcer protocol be now a standard operating procedure for many police force . it be similar in some way to the Herbert protocol for people who go miss with dementia , but it have special feature that be design specifically to assist former service personnel . in essence , it work like this . People who have a veteran in their family who they believe may be vulnerable can register their detail confidentially , include known associate and favourite haunt , with an organisation know as safe and found Online . in the event that a veteran go missing , the family , by release a PIN code , can make that information immediately available to the police , to assist they in their search for the potentially vulnerable veteran . the initiative be trialle by Greater Manchester police over six month . the trial be an outstanding success ; GMP report that it have allow they to make positive and timely intervention that undoubtedly save the life of dozen of veteran in the Greater Manchester area . as a result of that highly successful trial , the Forcer protocol be be roll out across police force nationwide . we have an event to encourage progress in the Commons in November 2024 , and I be pleased to tell the House that at very short notice , the new Minister for Veterans and People attend to give his personal support , for which I thank he again today . in an equally bipartisan spirit , I pay tribute to the actor and tv celebrity Mr Ross Kemp , aka Grant Mitchell , for his unwavering support for that initiative , for the work that he have do for veteran more widely , and for his amazing documentary with the Royal Anglian Regiment — my old regiment — in Afghanistan . thank you , Ross , for everything you do for our armed force , past and present . we know your heart be absolutely in it , and we be grateful . I be delighted to report that my constabulary in Essex be formally adopt the Forcer protocol today at a ceremony at Colchester . it be deliberately do so in Armed Forces Week . thirteen force , include Essex , be now use that life - save procedure . it be estimate that since the initial trial with GMP and the roll - out across other force in this country , the process have save literally hundred of veteran . I commend Claire Lilly for everything that she and her loyal band of supporter have do to make this possible . we have another event in the Commons this November , by which time I very much hope that all 43 police force in England and Wales will be fully sign up . well do , Claire . Alan would be proud of you . as I mention early , despite the tri - partisan nature of this debate , there be , I be afraid , one issue on which I feel that the Government and the opposition will not agree : the Government ' s propose treatment of Northern Ireland veteran . More than 300 , 000 regular british soldier serve in Northern Ireland during the trouble between 1969 and 2007 . that highly challenging task , know as Operation Banner , be one of the long - run continual exercise in the history of the British Army . during that long and at time highly dangerous deployment , more than 700 british soldier be kill assist the Ulster Defence Regiment and the then Royal Ulster Constabulary GC , now the Police Service of Northern Ireland , in uphold the rule of law in Northern Ireland . many thousand of soldier be maim for life by both republican and so - call loyalist bomb , while try to hold the line in an incredibly complex and dangerous situation . I have see many memorial in my time , but perhaps one of the most poignant be the Royal Ulster Constabulary memorial at its headquarters in Knock , on which be commemorate hundred of officer who give their life , work alongside the Army , to attempt to uphold the rule of law in Northern Ireland . imagine the utter dismay of those veteran who serve in the british Army in that highly complex theatre at the news that the Labour Government intend to drive through a remedial order , under the auspex of the Human Rights Act 1998 , effectively to remove key provision in the Conservative - inspire Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . that will have two very important effect . first , it will reopen the endless cycle of investigation and reinvestigation , often via coronial inquest , to which many british Army soldier have already be subject . secondly — I wonder whether many Labour member be aware of this — that same remedial order , which their whip will urge they to vote for later this autumn , will make it easy for Gerry Adams and his associate to sue the British Government , and ultimately the british taxpayer . this be two - tier justice at its absolute bad . the veteran have initiate a parliamentary petition , " protect Northern Ireland Veterans from Prosecutions " , which amass more than 100 , 000 signature in well under a month . as of noon today , the petition have achieve more than 145 , 000 signature , and it be still go strong . as a result of that public support , we will debate that counter - productive policy , which be a loom disaster for armed force recruitment and retention , in Parliament next month . we Conservative Members vigorously resist that wholly misguided remedial order , which be design to aid Gerry Adams while throw our brave veteran to the wolf . we warmly welcome the Daily Mail ' s campaign , launch this morning , to defend our veteran . as the Daily Mail ' s editorial powerfully put it this morning , " it be profoundly unfair that frail ex - servicemen will continue to live in dread of a knock on the door , by the authority , while IRA murderer sleep easily , with letter of immunity , hand to they by Tony Blair . " I think that put it rather well . it be worth record that many of the soldier who serve in Northern Ireland be recruit from what we might now call red wall town , from Blackburn to Bury and from Bolton to Burnley . they be then order across the Irish sea to help uphold the rule of law . many of those survive veteran be now in their 70 or even their 80 , and I suspect that many Labour mp would find it extremely difficult to explain to they and their loved one that they be take this action just because their Government be literally obsess with the Human Rights Act 1998 . conservative Members will bitterly oppose the remedial order ; Labour Members will need to look into their conscience and , hopefully , when the Division bell ring , do the same . with that important exception , I hope that hon . member from across the House who be in the Chamber can agree that we value immensely the work of the whole armed force family , and everything that they do to keep our country safe . without those people who have the courage to take the King ' s shilling , as the old phrase have it , put on a uniform and , if ultimately necessary , risk their life to keep this country free , we would have no guarantee of our precious democracy . perhaps the most fitting way to end my humble contribution will be to quote the word of Rudyard Kipling from his famous poem , " recessional " , which be write in 1897 to commemorate Queen Victoria ' s diamond jubilee . those who know the poem will know that there be no hint of jingoism about it — indeed , quite the reverse . it warn about the power of divine judgment and the humility of king . as Kipling put it : " the tumult and the shouting die ; the captain and the king depart : still stand Thine ancient sacrifice , an humble and a contrite heart . Lord God of Hosts , be with we yet , lest we forget — lest we forget ! " I thank the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , for share with we those powerful word by Kipling , which have sink into our national consciousness . I appreciate the cordial nature of the debate between the Minister for the Armed Forces and the shadow Minister . we three be together early this week for a debate on recruitment in the north - east , which be also incredibly cordial . this be a great opportunity to continue that conversation . in Stockton , we celebrate Armed Forces Day early , on Saturday , with a flag - raise ceremony , many celebration on the high street , and a service lead by Rev . Paul . I be pleased to see representative of our local armed force . member of the Yorkshire Regiment , which largely serve my constituency , be there , although people in the north of my constituency might tend to join the Rifles , and we have representative from our local cadet force , include the Royal Marines Cadets , the Sea Cadets and the Royal Air Force Air Cadets , who be base in Norton , in my constituency . there be also representative from the Royal Military Police Reserves , who I be proud to say be also base in Norton . Stockton have strong representation from the armed force in our local community ; I be pleased to say that one in 20 people in my constituency be either serve in the armed force or veteran . I mention the Royal Military Police . I wonder if they be not mention enough in the House , so I think this would be a good opportunity to commend their work . they can claim to be the long - establish regiment or corps , with a history stretch all the way back to the 13th century and the appointment of the first sergeant of the peace . today , they be a vital part of our armed force , with around 2 , 200 soldier and civilian staff . they support operation in conflict zone , peace - keep mission and humanitarian effort . this be perhaps a suitable moment to pay tribute to the hon . and gallant Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) for her service as a captain in the Royal Military Police , and for her continued advocacy for the armed force community . the Royal Military Police be much like other skilled unit in the armed force , but they have three main role : the policing of the Army , special investigation and close protection . in police the Army , they will be attach to a unit in the field , and will ensure that capture member of enemy force be treat appropriately , legally and humanely , which be clearly an important role . they be recently deploy in Ukraine as close protection for staff of the Foreign Office . there be airborne RMP , base in Colchester ; they be part of Operation Market Garden at Pegasus Bridge . I welcome what the hon . Gentleman be say . would he accept that the action of the Royal Military Police attach to fighting unit be a direct reflection of the Army and of our national character in uphold the rule of law even in warfare ? I would . I may go on to develop this point , but that role create for member of the Royal Military Police a unique duty and a serious responsibility that put they in a slightly different position from their comrade , which must be quite difficult . that be why I want to highlight the role of the RMP . member of the RMP can also find themselves in incredibly dangerous situation . a friend of mine , who be a member of the RMP reserve , highlight to I the role of Royal Military Police officer during the second world war and in other conflict in manage traffic point . those fix grid reference point be vital in manage the traffic flow of equipment and personnel appropriately for our logistic , but they also mean that RMP personnel be easy to target by artillery and aircraft . they carry out that role with great bravery ; I commend they for that . as I have mention , police put individual in a difficult and unique position . that be also true for the civilian police force , but I think there be a particular additional burden on member of the Royal Military Police in how they discharge their duty . I be strike by the story of Royal Military Police veteran Kate Green , which she tell 20 year after the lifting of the LGBT military ban . when she serve in the Royal Military Police , the thing that she fear most be be ask to investigate those suspect of hide their sexuality from the Army . if an LGBT serviceperson admit their sexuality , they be out and that be the end of their military career . eventually , Kate decide that she could not continue with her service anymore and that she do not want to continue to live a lie herself , so she hand in her one - year notice . the LGBT ban be lift on 12 January 2000 , just a short time after her career end . Kate now work with the Royal British Legion and maintain a strong connection with the Army , despite no long serve . this be an opportunity for we all to welcome the lifting of the LGBT ban and to recognise the service of LGBT veteran . nearly 30 year ago , when I be at the University of Exeter , I argue vociferously to make sure that our armed force be allow to recruit from our campus and that they get people like we into the military , so that we could create a military that be receptive and reflective of our society , so that people from LGBTQ + community could serve alongside we , without any impediment . do my hon . friend agree that inclusion come from be part of an institution and help to change it from within , and that it be necessary that we do not put in place impediment to armed force recruitment on campus today ? I thank my hon . and gallant Friend for his service and his continued advocacy in this place for the armed force . he speak powerfully , and I agree with he . it be no small task to change the culture in an organisation ; it start and end with leadership , so we must thank the leader in our armed force , who have do exactly as he say . I will share the story of Rachel Webster . she be a Royal Military Police veteran from the north - east , and she be another example of how it be possible to break down barrier and overcome some really quite entrenched stereotype . Rachel choose engineer over cookery when she be at school — that be her interest — but she be tell that she would not be able to weld because she be a girl . I do not know if any hon . member have ever have a go at welding , but I have ; I be a boy , and I be terrible at it . Rachel be unable to pursue weld at school , but , like I , she leave school and join British Steel . it be well at teach her weld than it be at teach I , because she take a four - year apprenticeship programme and learn how to weld . but her ambition be to enter the armed force ; she wish to join the Royal Engineers , where many of her compatriot on the British Steel apprentice scheme go , but when she apply she be tell that woman could not be in the Royal Engineers at that time . undeterred , Rachel join the Royal Military Police in 1989 . she train with the Women ' s Royal Army Corps , and then with the RMP , and she be deploy to Germany . her career take she across the world , from Northern Ireland during the trouble to Afghanistan in 2001 , but one of her proud moment come in Iraq in 2003 . she be help to build a girl ' school and impress the local man , who do not realise it be possible for woman to weld — so she be able to use her welding skill on behalf of the Army . both Rachel and Kate have really powerful story . they show we that courage do not know any gender or sexuality , and I hope that their story will inspire my constituent in Stockton , Billingham and Norton and people across the country . let I take this moment to very much thank all our armed force — particularly the Royal Military Police and its reservist in my constituency , across the north - east and across the country — for their valuable service to our nation . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be an absolute privilege to speak in today ' s debate on Armed Forces Day — a day on which we recognise and celebrate the bravery , dedication and sacrifice of those who serve and have serve in our armed force . we honour and thank they . early this week I be proud to attend the armed force flag - raise ceremony in Epsom . such event be hold in community across the country , and their meaning run deep . they be a visible reminder of something that should never be take for grant : the courage of the man and woman who step up to defend our freedom , often at great personal cost . this week be personal for I , because I serve in the british Army as part of the Royal Military Police , who vital operational work be quite rightly highlight by the hon . member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) . my journey begin with the desire to lead , travel and make a difference . I join Sandhurst , which be gruelle and inspire in equal measure . as one of the few woman there at the time , I train in boot that be not design for I , but I emerge with unbreakable friendship forge in resilience . I be first deploy to Bosnia as part of NATO ' s peacekeeping mission . later , I serve in Iraq with 1 Princess of Wales ' s Royal Regiment during Operation Telic 4 , help to retrain the iraqi police force in a dangerous and volatile area . we operate under constant threat . a year before my arrival , six of my Royal Military Police colleague be kill in Majar al - Kabir . I still remember the fear of that first night in Maysan , travel in a black - out bus and unsure of what lie ahead ; the fear of the unknown and of not make it home be one that many serve personnel still face today . we carry out our mission with professionalism and camaraderie — british troop work shoulder to shoulder with brave interpreter , local ally and international partner — but I see at first hand how overstretched and under - equip our troop often be compare with our ally . we get on with the job , but we should not have to make do . Armed Forces Day be not just about parade and flypast ; it mark a time for action . our service personnel deserve more than warm word . they deserve a fair deal . that be why I be call for a fair deal commission to overhaul the condition face service personnel , veteran and their family . from housing to pay and from diversity to transition support , our service personnel deserve reform . unfortunately , too many military family still live in substandard accommodation , too many veteran struggle with poor mental health and inadequate support , and too many LGBT + veteran be still wait for proper justice and compensation . we be pleased to see the government accept the Etherton report ' s recommendation , but speed be of the essence because many of those affect be elderly or seriously ill . woman in the armed force still face unacceptable level of harassment and misogyny , as the Atherton report reveal . we must do well , and we will push for full implementation of those recommendation . when it come to troop number , the reality be stark : our armed force be overstretch and under - resource . we be call for a new bonus scheme to help to bring into and keep more new recruit in the British Army , and the expansion of the current rejoin scheme to attract former soldier to re - enlist . I leave the Army early than I plan . like many servicewoman , I be force to choose between motherhood and military service . there be no support , no nursery and no flexible career path . those be the real barrier that drive people out of uniform , and the military lose many experienced people . we must change that . if we want to recruit and retain the good , we need to support family . the liberal Democrats would create a one - stop shop for military family to access housing , education , healthcare and career support . I be proud of my constituency ' s military history . Langley Vale be once a world war one training camp for more than 8 , 000 soldier , and it be now a place of reflection . our local Royal Engineers , the 135 Geographic Squadron , recently celebrate 75 year of proud service , march with bayonet fix through Ewell . in this volatile and uncertain time , let we honour the legacy of our service personnel not just in ceremony , but in policy . let we make Armed Forces Day a starting point for serious change . it be a great privilege to speak today to mark Armed Forces Day 2025 — a moment for our country to show its deep and endure gratitude to all the man and woman who serve and have serve in our armed force . their service underpin our national security , our value and our way of life . whether it be on the frontline or behind the scene , at home or abroad , those individual commit themselves fully to something far great than themselves , and they do so not for recognition but out of duty . since become the Member of Parliament for Mansfield , I have have the opportunity to meet veteran , serve personnel and their family . I have see at first hand the strength of character , discipline and resilience that military life build . it be clear that those who serve bring with they skill that enrich every part of our society once they return to civilian life , but we must be honest about the reality that many of they face after service . by its very nature , military life be unique . it often mean frequent move , long separation from family and sudden transition . although the vast majority of veteran make successful move into civilian life , there be still far too many who encounter disadvantage , whether in housing , employment , access to healthcare or mental health service and so forth . I serve for 25 year . at time — for almost 10 year at a stretch — I have month - on , month - off deployment , where I be away from my family . during this Armed Forces Week , we must remember , give praise to and celebrate our armed force family , who , as my hon . friend describe , suffer unseen pressure and burden . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . certainly , when I speak to the family of serve personnel in Mansfield , that subject be always very close to the top of the conversation . it be very important to recognise those issue , and it be for those reason that it be so important that we recognise the armed force covenant — our collective promise across government , society and public service that those who serve should not be disadvantage by virtue of their service . that be not just a principle ; it be important that it be recognise in law , but the covenant can be effective only if those in position of responsibility understand it and implement it properly . that be why , early this month on 4 June , I be proud to host the first ever all - party parliamentary reception for the armed force covenant here in Parliament . that event be hold in partnership with the Royal British Legion and the Ministry of Defence ' s covenant team , who do outstanding work to support veteran and promote awareness . I formally put on record in this House my thank to the Royal British Legion , and to the Minister for Veterans and People for his attendance at that event . its aim be really simple : to help member of the House and their staff member well understand how the covenant operate and the support it provide , and how we can use it to serve our constituent more effectively . I find it very encouraging to see member from across the House and across the political spectrum in attendance , absolutely unite in their belief that no one who serve this country should face barrier when their service come to an end . Armed Forces Day and Armed Forces Week be not just about parade and flag - raise , important though those thing be ; they be really about recognise and reaffirm our commitment to the people who defend our freedom day after day . as we rightly thank our armed force today , let we recommit ourselves in this House to ensure that their support be match by our support , that their sacrifice be never meet with silence , and that their family be never leave behind . let we move forward on this day , not just with gratitude but with purpose . it be an honour to speak today ahead of Armed Forces Day — a day not just of pageantry , as the hon . member for Mansfield ( Steve Yemm ) say , but of principle . I congratulate the Government on reinstate the pageantry as well — it be a good thing . it be a day to recognise the man and woman who serve , or who have serve , in his Majesty ' s armed force : the quiet professional who carry the weight of our security , often in silence and too often without thank . as we have hear , we owe they and their family a debt of gratitude that we can never really pay , but gratitude alone be not enough . as the Minister say , only a quarter of veteran feel that their service be properly recognise , and there be a reason for that . I will speak plainly about it , and I hope the Minister will not take it as partisan . I hope he will take what I have to say , in what will be a difficult five minute of listen for he , as a call for action and assistance — or , if he like , a call for help . as my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) say , there be a shadow that hang over our armed force : the political and legal vendetta target the veteran of Operation Banner in Northern Ireland . those man answer their country ' s call in one of our country ' s dark hour . without hesitation , they stand between the innocent and the terrorist , often literally — they be often in the way of the bullet . now , decade later , they be treat not as hero but as suspect . the frankly inadequately inform inquest into the SAS - IRA conflict at Clonoe be just one incident in which elderly veteran be be persecute ; there will be many more . we should never forget that terrorist kill 722 british soldier during the trouble . the people who carry out those murder have effectively be exonerate by the british state . I do not blame the state for that — it be necessary at the time — but today , we witness a legal crusade against the man who risk everything in the service of peace . this be not justice ; it be an attempt to rewrite history . it be prosecution drive by politic , not fact . while the killer walk free , authority hound the soldier who stop they from kill and treat those soldier like criminal . the legacy Act — forgive my shorthand — be design to put an end to this travesty . for their own reason , the Government have decide to repeal that Act , but if they do not properly replace it with effective legislation , they will hand the initiative back to those who spend decade glorify violence . I hope the Minister will pay attention to every detail of the paragraph I have just speak , because it be important . the Government must decide whose side they be on in this exercise . our veteran , who be now in their 70 or even old , deserve peace in retirement , not a knock on the door and question about battle they fight to defend the public half a lifetime ago . those battle be fight under order , under supervision and under yellow card rule , and immediately afterwards , everybody face close judicial examination of their behaviour to ensure they have obey the law in every respect . to refer back to the speech make by the hon . member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) , the military police be often involve in those investigation — it do not always make they popular , but it be a necessary part of the process . not one of the condition I have describe apply to the psychopathic murderer those soldier be up against . I have repeatedly ask the Government to end this shameful campaign of retrospective injustice , and I will continue to ask until I get a meaningful answer and a resolution to this run sore of injustice . that be why I support the petition that my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford refer to , with its 145 , 000 signature — an astonishing number in such a short time . however , this be just the start . this issue be not just massively important to our veteran ; if this rewrite of history succeed , this weapon of lawfare can be use against soldier in any future conflict , destroy the effectiveness of our troop in future operation . this morning ' s edition of the Daily Mail carry a powerful headline announce the start of a campaign to highlight that very problem . when we look at that headline , though , we should remember that this be not just about our special force ; it be about the whole of the armed force . there be at least 20 inquest into action by Government agency and force that could potentially be restart by the Government after the end of the legacy legislation . only a minority of those inquest be about special force ; most be about conventional force , or about the Royal Ulster Constabulary or the Ulster Defence Regiment . if we continue down this path , not only will we betray our past ; we will jeopardise our future . this campaign of persecution send a chilling message to the next generation : " serve your country , risk your life , and face prosecution in your old age . " why would any young man or woman sign up for that ? the truth be that many will not . I know that the Minister refer to well recruitment and retention figure , but that will not last if this battle be lose by the british state . this challenge have be most high - profile when it have strike at our elite unit , such as the Special Air Service , the Special Boat Service and the Special Reconnaissance Regiment — the Det , as it be once know — but it apply to every rifleman , soldier and member of the military who carry and wield a weapon in defence of his country . those soldier , who operate in condition of extreme danger and uncertainty , be require to make impossible decision at great speed while under fire , or in terror of be under fire . they expect neither recognition nor reward , but just one thing : the support of their government . we expect our soldier to put their life on the line for our country , but why would they do that if their country will abandon they after their service ? instead , they face doubt — doubt that creep into the field , into the command and into mission planning . if soldier must weigh every trigger pull against a future court case , we cripple their ability to act . what be the point of the armed force if we render they useless through legal ambiguity ? I be the last person to tolerate unnecessary killing or misbehaviour by our troop . those who be in the House at the time will know of my past campaign on torture and rendition . I will not stand for that , but we must balance properly the rule of law as it apply to each environment . we already have think - through rule of lawfare establish in the Geneva convention , and that be where we must look first when conduct a war . from 2005 to 2007 , during the operation against al - Qaeda in Iraq , our military achieve , along with the Americans , spectacular result in save life . I reiterate that that be about save life . in Baghdad , the number of vehicle - bear suicide bombing fall from 100 a month to just one after we engage . sectarian assassination — once rife — all but cease , care of our military . that be not the work of indiscriminate bombing or division - level assault ; it be achieve through precise , control and surgical raid into some of the most hostile environment , generally by elite force , and back by careful planning . the impact be staggering . even a hostile " Panorama " programme show that 95 % of terrorist neutralisation be capture , not kill . that be under unbelievable circumstance , and thousand of innocent life be save . that be a matter not just of operational skill , but of moral discipline . in the midst of close - quarter combat against some of the most dangerous man on earth , our force show a restraint few could match . I have no doubt that mistake be make from time to time , and those should be answer for , but if we allow our opponent to use lawfare to destroy these capability , we be leave with blunt instrument — the bomb , the missile and the drone — with which , instead of capture or kill just the guilty , we kill every innocent civilian on a bus or every guest at a wedding party . our military have be brilliant at do the opposite — at be target , lawful and effective . dismantle that capacity would be not only militarily reckless , but a betrayal of the principle that the Minister say we stand for , which distinguish we from those whom we fight . let we today do rather more than clap politely at a parade . let we act . let we end the relentless hounding of our veteran . let we give our serve force the legal protection and political support they deserve . let we recognise that if we find it difficult to recruit , it be a consequence of a state that too often turn its back on its defender . this Armed Forces Day , let we make one promise : that no british soldier will ever again be abandon by the very nation they have so bravely protect . I rise to pay tribute to our armed force personnel . may I associate myself with the Minister ' s remark ? I start by recognise veteran for their past service and their contribution to society . they continue to serve society with their skill and leadership , shape by their unique military experience . I also thank our reservist for the extra time they give in support our armed force , and I declare an interest , as I have a husband who be a reservist in the Army . I also thank our cadet and our armed force family , who make sacrifice in their own way to keep we safe , which must be recognise . at the weekend , I attend the Royal British Legion Old Catton ' s 90th birthday celebration , and I pay tribute to all the volunteer and community group , as well as our armed force and veteran . I meet cadet from Constitution Hill , Aylsham Road and College Green in Norwich , and what they be learn be phenomenal . do my hon . friend agree that we have to back they with support and also back the many volunteer who help make those cadet group run effectively ? my hon . friend raise an important point . our cadet provide a good opportunity for our young people , and they should be support and back as much as possible . I be proud to have attend Monday ' s flag - raise ceremony in Victoria Square , in my constituency of Bolton North East . I be proud to see the strong showing of support for our armed force at that ceremony , where the armed force flag be raise above Bolton town hall . it will fly there proudly until the end of Armed Forces Day on Saturday . the ceremony be an opportunity to reflect on those who have serve and those who be currently serve , especially those deploy overseas and in active service . I be glad to join in celebration with Jerry Mistry , president of the Royal Artillery Association ' s Bolton branch , and also member of the Royal Artillery , such as Gunner Paul Brindle . there be nearly 3 , 000 veteran in Bolton North East , and Bolton be also home to the 216th Battery of the 103rd Regiment of the Royal Artillery , which be the most northerly sub - unit of the 103rd Regiment , with lineage date back to 1889 . I be deeply proud of our local military history , but on Monday I also hear concern from member of the 216th Battery about a lack of funding , particularly around general training , mean that there be not enough money to progress training level . I sincerely hope that the Government will look at way to provide more support on that . I be also a former employee of the Royal British Legion , and as someone with experience campaign to improve the life of our armed force , I strongly welcome this Government ' s commitment to renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve and those who have serve . have work on raise awareness about the armed force covenant , I be pleased that this Labour Government recognise its importance in support our armed force community and that we have commit to enact it in law . however , what plan do the Minister and his Department have in place to ensure that sufficient funding and budget be in place to implement an extension of the armed force covenant duty ? how do the Government intend to work with different layer of local government and our regional mayor ? as a parent , I welcome plan to expand wraparound childcare to support family deploy overseas , and I be pleased to hear that they will now receive 20 hour a week of funded childcare , save family around £ 3 , 400 a year . I strongly commend the Minister and this Government on broaden support to our armed force family , because I have experience at first hand how much they struggle and the unique challenge they face . on that point , there be many brave man and woman in my constituency who be serve or who have serve . I be proud of they and their family , and I thank they for their contribution this Armed Forces Week . my hon . Friend mention the Royal British Legion , and I wish to give particular thank to Tilehurst Royal British Legion in my constituency . it do a fantastic job to support our veteran , particularly Christine Lewendon , the president of the Tilehurst branch . will my hon . friend join I in thank they for all that they do ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in that . we should pay tribute to the Royal British Legion , its branch and its team , with all the various support that they provide to our armed force community . I be pleased to see that this Government be boost cadet force , create opportunity for 42 , 000 young people by 2030 , because I know how much of a difference that will make to people in my constituency . I also welcome the large pay rise for the armed force in more than 20 year , and I be deeply grateful that we be establish an armed force commissioner , which be long overdue . finally , I will end by reiterate the concern highlight by member of the 216th Battery around fund for training . I hope that the Government will look at more way to provide more support so that we can continue to back up our word with action and help to upskill our vital defence sector and our armed force community . I look forward to join in Armed Forces Day celebration this Saturday . I want to speak in the debate today to recognise the contribution of all those who serve in our armed force and those who stand beside they in support . it be Armed Forces Week , and I will be attend the Huntington Armed Forces Day on Saturday at Sapley play field . I pass on my appreciation to Anna Dutton for her effort in organise the day from a standing start . I also thank Andy Phipps of Cambridgeshire army cadet force for his effort . for a region with strong link to the armed force , it be wonderful that our armed force personnel and family , both british and american , will have the opportunity to participate locally . I say that as an MP who be very proud to have military basis in his constituency , whether they be british with RAF Wyton , the home of UK defence intelligence , or RAF Molesworth and RAF Alconbury , which be both run by the US air force . we have an extraordinary number of US personnel in and around our village , which always take people by surprise when they hear those american accent . Armed Forces Day be about the recognition and celebration of those young man and woman who give up the good year of their life to serve their nation in a uniform . it be also about those who stand behind they , who sacrifice their time , their career and their ability to make a home in order to support their partner , mother and father to realise their career ambition . I spend the good part of a decade in the Army . although I rarely , if ever , mention it , it be one of the great experience of my life , particularly now that , through the passage of time , I have all but forget how bad some of it actually be . but I do love it , and I do miss it . the camaraderie , the experience and the opportunity be all unique element that make be a part of the armed force so special . you forge bond with those who serve alongside you , and the unspoken share experience allow you to meet a fellow veteran and bond over a share love of spin dit . sadly , it would be inappropriate in this place to recount most of those dit , if not all . I serve in the armed force during the high tempo of kinetic operation since the korean war . it place a strain on our armed force , the like of which we have not see since . I know that those on the Labour Benches often like to recall that the last time we spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence be under the last Labour Government , and the pm even mention it in his statement early today . what they do not often mention be that that operational tempo just about break the Army . I echo the word of the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) : in my experience of serve during the same period , we go through kit and equipment very quickly . with the pace of change that we currently see on operation and in warfare , we would do well to remember — I know the Minister be listen — that we cycle through different type of body armour . in a four - year period , I think we have three different type of body armour and three different type of helmet . we change our entire camouflage pattern , and we have to bring in urgent operational request to have vehicle that could withstand roadside bomb . we go from patrol in beret and enhance combat body armour in Iraq to patrol in helmet , and with metal detector , in Afghanistan only a couple of year later . the pace of change be something that we must consider . I hesitate to interrupt what be a marvellous speech and a great testament to the hon . Gentleman ' s service , but he mention the urgent request for vehicle that could withstand roadside bomb . I think this might be an appropriate moment to mention that , in response to that , a new type of steel be develop in the UK : ballistic steel , which be invent at the University of Cambridge , develop at our steel research institute and produce in south Wales . that be a great national response , and it demonstrate the importance of not only our steel industry , but our industry in general , in provide a rapid response to the requirement of those in the field . I concur . although I do not know anything about the detail of that steel and the armour it provide , it be worth bear in mind the pace of change and our ability to react . we have hear a lot of talk in recent week about the capability that we intend to buy , but we have to remember the old adage , which be so true : no plan ever survive first contact with the enemy . that be probably truer now than it have be for many a year . we take our armed force for grant . although the jingoistic applause , the veteran ' discount and the " thank you for your service " be not for we — it be too gauche ; we be , after all , british — the flip side be that there be certainly some middle ground to be occupy . we need great societal recognition of the value of serve and an inculcation that service to one ' s nation be something to be proud of , something to aspire to , and something that benefit not just the country , but the individual . we too often look to our armed force as a default civil emergency force and the first port of call . if there be flooding , we ask they to deliver sandbag . if it be snow , we ask they to clear the runway at Heathrow . if firefighter go on strike , we ask our armed force to man the fire truck . we also ask they to provide security at the Olympics . even the bin strike see the Army bring in to help . although I appreciate that there be a specific process by which the help of the armed force be enlist , I wince whenever I see it activate . we should not need to rely upon a force of barely 100 , 000 or so available service personnel to cover everything . they should not be the default bailout for Government or local government ineffectiveness . our armed force deserve well . they deserve to be pay properly , so that they do not have to take a pay cut when they be deploy on operation , as be recently explain to I by some of the personnel on NATO operation in Poland ; to be house properly , so that defence contractor do not paint over the mould on the wall because treat it be not on the contractor ' checklist , as I have be inform be happen in service family accommodation in my constituency at the moment ; to be post sympathetically , so that family do not end up split apart if both parent be serve personnel , as I have see happen to my good friend who be still serve ; and to be support and grant stability , so that service personnel ' s child can receive a stable home and education . I could go on , but the point I be make be that the treatment of our service personnel be not good enough . frankly , it be not good enough when I serve , it be not good enough under the last government , and I do not think it be good enough now . while I do not doubt the Government ' s sentiment , I retain little confidence that the situation will drastically improve , despite the promise . we in this House often stand in this Chamber and wax lyrical about our armed force , recount story of their bravery , courage , commitment and sacrifice . but they be more than just a backdrop for an announcement , and I encourage those of we in this House to remember that . I will make one light - hearted final point . as we Members of Parliament return to our constituency this weekend to participate dutifully on Saturday and attend the event and parade , spare a thought for those young man and woman . as much as I be sure that they value and appreciate the recognition — I remember this well from my own Army experience — the irony be that the good way we could show how much we value they be by not make they work on a sunny Saturday afternoon in June . it be with immense pride that I rise today in Armed Forces Week , particularly as the national celebration be return to Cleethorpes this weekend . that will be a moment of real honour for our community in Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes , nearly 10 year after the last time we host such an event , in 2016 — and my , hasn ' t a lot happen in those year ? to have it return under a Labour Government be an incredibly proud moment . my constituency may not have garrison town such as those that my colleague represent , but our tie to the military run deep and proud . from american gi camp in Grimsby ' s People ' s park during the second world war , to the brave man and woman who give everything to their country to support the war effort — include our town ' fisherman , as well as my great - grandma May and my great aunt Kathleen , who both take role as wartime warden in their village of Healing — our town have long stand shoulder to shoulder with our armed force . those connection continue today , with the 3rd Battalion of the Royal Anglian Regiment , a reserve battalion , operate out of Westward Ho in Grimsby , and training and serve with distinction across our area and far afield . their commitment really do reflect the value that define our area : resilience , solidarity and service . every Remembrance Sunday , they open their door to the whole of the local community in order to provide refreshment to the young cadet — the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) just mention cadet — who will be out parade this Sunday . we must be very proud of our cadet . I be a cadet myself , and it keep I on the straight and narrow and out of trouble . in my constituency I have two amazing squadron : 12f , base in Waltham Forest and Leyton ; and 241 , the good air cadet squadron in the country . behind they be a corps of volunteer who really do not get the recognition they deserve , and it be really important that we recognise the people who prop up these organisation in our community . will my hon . friend join I in recognise their service and commitment ? my hon . friend make an important point . member have say today that we will not have a future pipeline of young people who want to participate in the armed force , who already have the training and the discipline , and who understand the lifestyle if we do not have the adult who be prepared to give up their time to support that . it be incredibly time - consume and take they away from their family , and it really do show a commitment not only to young people , but to their community and the armed force more widely . I , too , participate in my school ' s combine cadet service , and we enjoy many evening and night on Salisbury plain in the bitter cold — in fact , they be some of the cold night I have ever experience . Glastonbury and Street sea cadet give youngster an experience that help they grow into the people they want to be , in a safe and friendly environment . it give they confidence , friendship and leadership skill to help they launch well into life . will the hon . Lady join I in celebrate group such as Glastonbury and Street sea cadet , and thank they for all the amazing work they do ? I be very happy to do as the hon . Lady ask . all the organisation work with young people do an amazing job . the fact that the young people involve show up and commit themselves be testament to their resilience , and to their belief that they can achieve . they be put time and effort into prepare themselves for their future . the Westward Ho barracks open its door to our local community every year , provide hot food and drink . it be a place for family to come to , and for everyone to get together and reflect on the day . it provide a little bit of community spirit , connection and conversation on a very important day in our constituency . we regularly see hundred of people line the street as the procession go from the minster to the memorial near the Grimsby Institute . this year , as Cleethorpes host the national Armed Forces Day event — I do not want to keep say it , but we be host the national event this year , and be very pleased to do so — we will be celebrate not only our nation ' s servicemen and woman , but the economic and cultural boost that the event will bring to our area . I have to pay tribute to our local armed force event team . they be volunteer , and they work tirelessly at any event relate to our armed force . they be always there , and they will be work incredibly hard right down to the wire . I be absolutely sure that they will not have the opportunity to enjoy any of the event on Saturday , because they will be so busy make sure that everything be run smoothly , and that those participate and come from outside the area to make this a grand celebration have everything they need . it will be a moment for our business and our tourism sector . above all , it be about our people , and we will welcome those from around the country who will come to this national event and line the street to give thank to our servicemen and woman . only recently , I have the pleasure of welcome student from the uniformed service course at Grimsby Institute , who come into Parliament and the education centre . these young people be prepare for career across the police , the fire service , the armed force and the emergency response service . their enthusiasm and discipline be a reminder that the future of our uniformed service be in good hand . they be the next chapter in our proud tradition of service , and I be very pleased to have they here . we also have some excellent community group . the armed force event team have turn an old local authority building call the Knoll into a centre for signpost for veteran . it provide signpost for any kind of mental health support , housing support , or welfare and benefit advice . it be a really nice , relaxed environment , with space for veteran to have a coffee , and there be professional to signpost they and provide additional support . we have another brilliant grassroot group call NEL4Heroes , which be run voluntarily by ex - servicemen and woman . it bring people together through food and drink , and other activity , and it really help people who have leave the service — sometimes recently , sometimes many year ago — who be find life a little bit difficult or find themselves in a challenging situation . there be a pride that come with service , but sometimes that pride mean that people do not wish to access the help available to they . NEL4Heroes be a brilliant group that informally build relationship and tie , and provide support . it encourage people not to feel embarrassed about require additional support for a period of time , and it help they to access it . I congratulate the group on that work . our town ' s military history run deep and have last connection to our european ally . after the second world war , the Carpathian Lancers , a polish regiment unable to return home due to the soviet occupation , make Weelsby Woods their home . in their honour , a plaque and a wooden sculpture of their bear mascot , Wojtek , stand in the park as a tribute to their service and to the many who settle in Grimsby in 1947 . I want to mention that , because when I be grow up , my great aunt and her mother , my great - grandmother , welcome into their house one of those polish serviceman , so I grow up with he , and he live as a lodger with our family for 50 year until he pass away . I want to remember Michek W ł odarczak , because he be a big part of our family ' s life . I be sorry — in my hon . friend ' s very powerful and move speech , she have speak about the effort of the entire community . the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) talk about the importance of the national endeavour to remember those who have serve , and those who continue to serve , irrespective of party . in that spirit , I would like to put on record that former conservative councillor Kathryn Lawrence be do wonderful work with her team at the Hillmorton branch of the Royal British Legion . I have meet she many time and work with she , and will continue to do so . indeed , I will be take part in the ceremony on Saturday . it be in that spirit that we should support our armed service . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , which be particularly timely . there be people who play a big part in our life at different period ; I know that my family be not alone in feel that . it would be remiss of I not to pause and remember the Grimsby Chums , the ordinary man from our community who volunteer together , train together and , in July 1916 , face the horror of the Somme together . as part of the 101st Brigade in the 34th division , they stand shoulder to shoulder with battalion from Edinburgh as they launch the first wave of the british assault . at 7 . 28 am , the Chums advance into what would become a day of unimaginable loss . some manage to reach the german trench , include Second Lieutenant Harold P . Hendin , who , with just five man , reach the enemy ' s reserve trench and hold out under relentless counter - attack . of the battalion , 502 fall that day — 15 officer and 487 from other rank — with only two officer return uninjured and barely 100 man leave stand . their bravery and sacrifice be an endure legacy of our community ' s contribution to peace and freedom . our loss be not just from that time . over the last two decade , we have have a number of other loss from our community , such as Flight Lieutenant Smith , Marine Lance Corporal Ford , Trooper Pearson , Guardsman Major and Sergeant Telford , who should also be recognise . in that vein , I welcome the commitment from the Government that show their determination to improve the life and welfare of military serve personnel and their family , and particularly the force accommodation improvement . have live in service accommodation , I can confirm the difference that it make to have a good - quality home . the property of some of my friend be not in such a good state . they be bring up child , but be have to keep on top of some pretty terrible structural issue while their partner or husband be away on service . I also acknowledge the additional fund for homeless veteran , which will be invaluable for ex - servicemen and woman who become homeless after struggle to adjust and make change later in their life , and who perhaps feel that their community be not as strong as it be when they be in the force . make sure that we have the precision funding to support they be incredibly important . this weekend , as the Red Arrows fly over Cleethorpes beach , hopefully I can share an ice cream with the Secretary of State , or perhaps a pint ; there will be lot of pint drunk this weekend . as our community celebrate with parade and display of remembrance , we will feel a fierce pride in our past and present , and a sense of unwavere support for our armed service . I know that I speak for everybody in Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes when I say thank you to those who serve , who serve now , and who be prepare to serve . their bravery and sacrifice be write into the soul of our nation , and into the street , home and family of our community . let we honour they , not just on Saturday , but through the value we champion , the support we offer , and the remembrance we preserve for generation to come . I call the SNP spokesperson . there be many gallant member in this Chamber , in the Scottish Parliament Chamber back home in Scotland , and in other legislature of these island , both national and local — member who have serve in the armed force with distinction and bravery . I pay tribute to they , and to those family and many friend who have serve , and in some case continue to serve . I hold they in the high regard for their commitment to protect the freedom that we hold dear . that commitment be demonstrate by every rank and in every location where our armed force operate . Scotland have a very proud and distinguished military history . Armed Forces Day have become a further focal point of community support for our serve armed force and our veteran . in my constituency of Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey , there be around 4 , 500 serve personnel — around 3 , 000 at RAF Lossiemouth and around 1 , 500 Army personnel between 39 Engineers at Kinloss and the 3rd Battalion , Royal Regiment of Scotland , the Black Watch , base at Fort George . they be support by hundred of Ministry of Defence civilian and military contractor , such as Boeing and BAE Systems , who jointly , with our serve personnel , deliver significant defensive and offensive capability for our military system . in addition , there be around 12 , 000 veteran in my constituency ; I believe we have the high percentage of any constituency in the UK . that reflect the north of Scotland ' s very long and distinguish connection with the military . once we add in immediate family , around one in five people live in Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey have a direct military connection — quite some figure . it be unsurprising , therefore , that the armed force in the area be not view as a separate or distinct community , but rather as a significant and integrated part of the wide community . as be often the case in the north of Scotland , there be no fanfare , but rather an everyday respect and appreciation of the role of the armed force embed in community life . frankly , it be something that just be . that be important . there be no " we and they " ; we be a whole community . that do not , of course , equate to the armed force be ignore , as can be readily observe from the significant number that turn out , year on year , across the constituency to witness act of remembrance . I be very pleased that those number have grow over the last 25 year very significantly , and show no sign of drop off . there be military child in most school in the constituency , and some school have a very significant percentage of military child . military charity be well support in the region , include SSAFA , the RAF Benevolent Fund , help for Heroes , and Erskine Veterans Charity , which fairly recently open a very welcoming and well - attend facility in Forres that be provide fantastic support to veteran . they can get together for a chat , or for the more extensive support that Erskine can provide . the military , include contractor , offer a fantastic range of opportunity to young people in the region , and many take up those opportunity . in my pre - parliamentary life , I spend some four year as leader of Moray council . during that period , we strengthen our role in deliver the armed force covenant . we work cross party and across the chamber in the council to do that . that have continue , with cross - party support , and the council achieve the gold standard in the employer recognition scheme . during my time as council leader , I be very pleased to support the develop civic link between the council and HMS Spey , a Royal Navy river class offshore patrol vessel currently operate in the Indo - Pacific , give the constituency and the wide region really strong link with all three service . I will touch on some politic . I trust this will be take in the positive spirit in which I present it . this be not a day for hard politic , but there be some thing that could be well for our armed force . first , on the covenant — I mention this early to the Minister — I very much welcome proposal to embed the covenant in legislation . there will , no doubt , be challenge associate with that , and financial implication , but it be , in my view , the right thing to do . I look forward to future opportunity to debate embed the covenant in law . secondly , one thing that frustrate I in my council day be comparatively rapid change in number , notably at RAF Lossiemouth , which happen with no financial support to the council . many council with military basis , particularly air force basis , be in rural area with small population and consequently small budget to operate with . that make they less agile , because they simply do not have the money available at short notice to make the change require to deliver service at a big scale . other member will , I be certain , have similar experience in area with significant change in military number . if the MOD be a private developer , it would be contribute substantial sum to support growth in childcare , education and health provision , and a range of other public service . it would also be require to invest in infrastructure , such as improve road and junction in the area . the current design of our armed force and the Government Departments that support they do not lend itself to do that . this need serious work . I be by no mean a fan of everything that the US do , but in this regard when significant change occur to military - relate population there , there be a Government Department that step up for a period to support local authority , include with finance , to help smooth change , with investment in service provision and the local economy . council and health board have to absorb big bump in demand , and that be frequently easy say than do . we have a welcome opportunity to fix that . the Department in the US be call the Office of Local Defence Community Co - operation . it use to be know as the Office of Economic Adjustment , but I think that perhaps sound a bit orwellian . I would welcome further opportunity to debate this issue to see what progress can be achieve . the team in the US describe its role as help community to navigate the impact of Department of Defence action and programme change . that be exactly what we need to achieve in the UK , and it be particularly important as we move into an era of significantly increase spend on our armed force and growth in our base number . there will be demand for more dentist , doctor , teacher and wraparound childcare . that put a lot of pressure on local service and we need to navigate our way through that . before I conclude my contribution , I would like to make three specific mention . first , like a number of member who have contribute to this debate , I be take part in the armed force parliamentary scheme — in my case , the RAF course — which have afford I many excellent learn opportunity that enable I as a parliamentarian to well understand our armed force and to more effectively represent constituent with connection to our armed force . I pay tribute to the Armed Forces Parliamentary Trust , which be behind the excellent scheme , and the military officer who support the scheme here in Parliament , who have give so much time and effort to ensure that the scheme be the effective learning tool for mps that it be . I commend the scheme to other member who may be interested in take it up . secondly , it be a real delight to give my constituent Evie Skinner a tour of Parliament early this week and to congratulate she in person for her well - deserve win in the Month of the Military Child poetry and art competition , set up by the excellent charity never such Innocence . Evie , who have a parent serve in our armed force , should be really proud of her art piece on the theme of " Memories " , and I hope she and her family enjoy their time in Westminster . finally , this morning , I be pleased to welcome to Parliament several member of the Battlefield Co - ordination Detachment with their associate ground liaison officer , who be base with 1 ( Fighter ) Squadron at RAF Lossiemouth . the group be lead by Lieutenant Colonel Gee Jenner and Captain Ant Butler , who , alongside their colleague , be develop their understanding of the role of Parliament and the interaction between Parliament and our military service . achieve that mutual learning be as important to the military as it be to parliamentarian . it be vital that we continue to support and celebrate the dedication and commitment of our armed force , and Armed Forces Day afford we the opportunity to do just that . I associate myself with the Minister ' s opening word . it be a privilege to speak in this debate as both a member of the armed force parliamentary scheme and the proud Member of Parliament for Portsmouth North , the home of the Royal Navy and a community with deep historic tie to our armed force . however , for I , this debate be not just about duty — it be personal . I have a son currently serve , as well as several cousin and , indeed , a grandad who wear and wear their uniform with pride . like those in so many military family , I know both the pride and sacrifice that service life bring . I have proudly stand on the shoreline wave off ship as they sail out of my city and sail back in — and yes , it be emotional . I thank the Minister for join I last month as we wave love one off on the Prince of Wales . I will be return again next month . this Armed Forces Week , we honour not just those in uniform — regular , reserve and veteran — but the family who stand behind they . our armed force be the backbone of our national security , and they be the very good of we . I want to make special mention of the 14th and 15th Battalions and the 16th ( Reserve ) Battalion , more fondly know in my city as the " Pompey Pals " , and to remember the more than 1 , 400 who have lose their life , many go over the top in the battle of the Somme on 3 September 1916 . a tribute to the armed force veteran who do not survive can be find at my football club ; their name also adorn our football shirt one season . after year of neglect and underfunding , I be proud that this Labour Government be turn the page . we deliver the large pay rise in more than 20 year for our armed force and , as we hear from the Minister , we be increase recruitment and have commit £ 1 . 5 billion more for military accommodation , tackle year of decay and poor condition that too many force family have have to endure . I be proud to have bring the Minister for Veterans and People to Portsmouth to meet resident and armed force family and to see what can be do with accommodation , and I look forward to this Government change home for the well . we must also look to the future and at boost the cadet force , which I be pleased we be look to increase by 30 % by 2030 , open door to 42 , 000 more young people from every background to develop the skill , discipline and confidence that service life can bring . I want to mention the Royal Navy Cadets , Royal Marine Cadets , Sea Cadets , Army Cadet Force , Air Cadets and Combined Cadet Force , as well as the teacher at City of Portsmouth college who teach the uniformed protective service btec level 2 and 3 , and who do a great job show our young people that there can be a life in the military . to ensure those who have serve be not forget , we be launch Valour , a £ 50 million programme create a nationwide network of veteran support centre . I urge Portsmouth city council to sign up to and wholeheartedly embrace this programme , as we have veteran who deserve and need our support . I also look forward to put the covenant into law and promote this service to our armed force and their family , many of whom do not know it exist , so that we can follow good practice across the country and deliver for our people . we proudly commemorate VE Day in Portsmouth , where it be fantastic to join the resident of Knox Road at their street party . I look forward to join many other street party on VJ Day in August . we owe a huge debt of thank to the whole of the world war two generation , but I would like to pay special tribute to a remarkable local hero from my constituency , Jack Dark , the last survive member of the Pathfinder squadron . the pathfinder play a crucial role in world war two , fly ahead of bomber formation to mark target for attack . to say it be a tough mission be an understatement : Pathfinder crew survive for an average of just six week . against all the odd , Jack will celebrate his 102nd birthday on 11 August — an extraordinary milestone that speak to his incredible spirit and determination . I be very much look forward to meet Jack in person tomorrow , and I hope the hon . Lady will agree that his story be a powerful reminder of the bravery and resilience of all our armed force . I thank the hon . member for that wonderful intervention and send my good wish to Jack for his birthday . in remember that , I would also like to remember John Jenkins — one of our very own veteran from Portsmouth . in Portsmouth , we also proudly celebrate Armed Forces Day last Saturday , honour the service and sacrifice of our military community with event across the city . it be a day that I have attend since I be a kid , and it show our city at its very good . on Monday , we raise the armed force flag — a visible sign of our respect and support for those who serve and have serve — but in my city the armed force be remember every day , not just on one day . I also want to pay tribute to the local charity , veteran ' organisation and community group in Portsmouth , which work year round to support our armed force community . their dedication and compassion make a real difference . it have be a pleasure to work with they since come to this place on behalf of my constituent , veteran and their family , and I have be proud to host many of they in this place . let we use this week not just to show gratitude , but to rebuild the bond between society and those who serve , and to ensure that our armed force community be properly respect , support and champion . let we also use it to say thank you : to my Olly , to Kate , to Craig , to Kirstin , to Mark and to Jonty , who be currently away on the Prince of Wales — and , indeed , to all who serve and have serve . whether they be serve now , have serve or be support from home , they all deserve nothing less than our full commitment on their return . I welcome the Minister ' s opening speech ; as a member of the Defence Committee , I look forward to scrutinise the detail of his remark . I wish to say a brief word of thank to the Royal Marines Association , the Royal British Legion , SSAFA , the Veterans Charity and many other that all do good work in my constituency of North Devon , which be home to more than 4 , 800 veteran across more than 11 % of the household . obviously , North Devon be also home to the Royal Marines Barracks Chivenor and the Commando Logistic Regiment , and have the Royal Marines , the Navy and the Army all station there . back in January , I spend a day with a wonderful organisation call the Root Cause Project — a community of veteran and serve personnel who meet regularly around the camp fire in the great outdoors of North Devon to look out for each other and to talk . their message be simple : be able to talk to people with share life experience be vital to those who have serve in uniform , and be good for their mental health . I know from my time work for SSAFA , the Armed Forces charity , just how important that support structure be . when I leave the Royal Air Force in the 1990 , many veteran still find the experience of be out of uniform not just strange but very isolating . I hope that Armed Forces Week continue to bolster our force community , and show that we all appreciate the service of those who keep we safe . recently , I visit the British Normandy Memorial with fellow parliamentarian , include some in the Chamber today , to lay wreath in memory of those who give the ultimate sacrifice . it be a truly move experience . officially open on 6 June 2021 by his Majesty the King as royal patron of the Normandy Memorial Trust , the memorial stand as a powerful tribute to the 22 , 442 serviceman and woman under british command , who lose their life on D - day and throughout the battle of Normandy in the summer of 1944 . I be extremely honoured to meet a veteran of the D - day landing who have just turn 100 year old . he tell I that , on that day , he have land on the beach seven time . when I ask he why , he say it be because he be the pilot of one of the craft . I thank he for his service and he recite some memory from that momentous day . walk among the stone inscription , I be strike by how the memorial bring together the name of individual from over 30 different country , all unite in sacrifice . Set on a hillside overlook Gold beach , the site offer a poignant reminder of the scale and diversity of those who fight and fall . that day certainly put a large lump in my throat , just as every remembrance service do . we recognise that dedication to duty this Armed Forces Week . most importantly , I hope that veteran and serve personnel know that a support structure be there for they and that they will never be alone . I thank the Minister for his opening remark , and I thank colleague across the Chamber for come together to commemorate and celebrate the brave man and woman who keep we safe . before I begin , I note that a Westminster Hall debate be due to take place at around the same time today on the RAF Photographic Reconnaissance Unit , whose intelligence - gathering work of take a staggering 26 million photograph be vital to the war effort . these man , often unarmed , operate at extreme risk , with a tragic 48 % fatality rate . their bravery and sacrifice be instrumental to our victory . I hope to contribute to that debate when it take place so that we can rightly honour their role in protect our freedom . on Armed Forces Day , I want to focus on the woman and man currently protect our country . many colleague have speak about the uncertain global time that we face . these challenge serve only to sharpen our focus and strengthen our resolve to honour our armed force . I have previously share with the House that while I grow up know that my grandfather and great - grandfather have serve in the war , I rarely see their contribution recognise . Armed Forces Day be about change that . it be about raise the flag for all those on active duty , thank they for their service , and honour their decision to put themselves in harm ' s way for the rest of we . I take this opportunity to thank the man and woman of Ilford whose name be etch in Memorial Hall , which use to be the entrance to the maternity unit of King George hospital in Newbury Park . it be a wonderful idea that they give their life so that baby could be bear in freedom . Armed Forces Day be about recognise our armed force who come from every walk of life and from diverse faith and background . Sikhs , Hindus , Muslims , Christians , black , white and asian — each individual make an incredible contribution to our collective security . if we be serious about support our armed force , we must do more than hold debate to observe commemorative day . we must improve the experience of those serve now , so I be proud of the Prime Minister ' s announcement of increase funding today . improved experience mean support effort to make the military more inclusive , more accessible and more responsive to the need of its personnel . group such as the Defence Sikh Network be do just that by raise the voice of Sikhs in service and work to ensure that they can serve with dignity and authenticity . in 2022 , the Defence Sikh Network spearhead the introduction of a waterproof , tearproof , camouflage copy of the Nitnem Gutka — a sacred Sikh prayer book — for use in tactical environment . this initiative revive a tradition first see in world war one , when Sikh soldier who serve under the British Indian Army carry their scripture with they into battle . for many Sikhs , their decision to join the military be root in their faith — in the Sikh principle of protect those more vulnerable than they . the introduction of these Gutke help serve Sikhs to maintain the connection between their faith and their duty . it be not always like that . what come to mind be the story of a young Oxford graduate , Hardit Singh Malik , in 1916 . he be deny entry into the British Royal Flying Corps ; he be go to join the French , until his tutor intervene and get he a special dispensation . he fly with great distinction . he fight against the Red Baron and , come back , survive for 40 mile at low altitude with two bullet in his leg , his plane be shoot at more than 400 time . as he himself say , " my pursuer just do not have the bullet with my name on it . " these small but meaningful initiative about the Gutka be make not just on Armed Forces Day but on ordinary day , demonstrate respect for those who serve . on Armed Forces Day , we commemorate the man and woman whom we may not see daily — the one behind the scene who work tirelessly to keep we safe , like the people in the Plessey factory in Ilford in world war two . we honour those whose name be not always remember , whose record be lose , like those of the man of the RAF Photographic Reconnaissance Unit , and we reaffirm our commitment to implement real change . from large - scale policy initiative to small cultural initiative , we must make our force strong and more inclusive . rather fittingly , this debate come in the shadow of the NATO summit at the Hague yesterday , with its headline pledge for defence spending to reach 5 % of gdp by the midpoint of the next decade . I echo remark from across the House about how we live in an increasingly volatile world — perhaps more volatile and more unpredictable than at any other point in the post - 1945 era of pax Europaea and pax Americana . we see the bloody conflict on european soil since the second world war and death and devastation in the middle east and across Africa , Asia and beyond . in comfort on civvy street , we be perhaps sometimes guilty of forget how fragile our freedom and democracy be , and we forget the threat pose to they . our value be not guarantee ; they have to be fight for , and we must be remind of that . we live in an age that be the historical exception , not the norm . our way of life at home depend on our strength to defend it and how we project ourselves abroad . we recently celebrate the 80th anniversary of victory in Europe . just a few generation back , still within the memory of many , this country be engage in a fight for its very life and survival . we would do well to remember that always . thankfully , the brave man and woman who serve today need no such reminder . I come from a military family . my late father serve in the Royal Naval Reserve . two of my three brother have have long career in his Majesty ' s armed force . Ben be a brigadier in what I still insist on call the Black Watch . as officer command in Scotland when the late Queen die , he be in charge of make sure that everything go smoothly ; I can not tell you how proud I be of my baby brother Ben when it do . Johnny , now retire , be a lieutenant colonel in the Grenadier Guards . they have dedicate their life to the service of our country . I assure everybody that their example , and that of every soldier , sailor and airperson , reinforce my knowledge that our military remain in the good of hand . I say , perhaps with a shred of bias , that Britain ' s armed force be still the fine in the world . I speak with additional pride about my constituency of Tiverton and Minehead , which be home to 4 , 577 veteran . it be a proud part of the country with a strong military tradition . I take this opportunity to salute the fantastic presence of the Royal British Legion and other veteran organisation in my patch , particularly the wonderful Dunkirk Memorial House at the foot of the Quantock hill and the armed force breakfast club in Minehead and Bishops Lydeard , which provide a sense of community . have do lot of pro bono work with the Royal British Legion in a previous life , particularly on ptsd and hear loss , this be a topic very close to my heart . I be delighted to hear the Minister announce that the armed force covenant will be include in legislation . it be a national obligation to look after those who have serve we . before I be elect , I have to try and help young RAF veteran Owein and his family , include his young daughter , Autumn , who have just be diagnose with autism . they have become homeless . if only that legislation have be in place then . I know that my colleague , Councillor Claudette Harrower , who be responsible for the covenant at Mid Devon district council , will endeavour to make sure that the very good have be do . the armed force covenant be not charity ; it be justice . we must be alive to the recruitment crisis currently bedevil our armed force . we must close that gap . I fear , however , that we be not overly help ourselves in this regard . allow I to draw attention to the plight of a young constituent of mine , which I suspect be a frustratingly similar story to that of a number of young people up and down the country . in February 2024 , she give up the chance to study a - level to attend the Lichfield assessment centre , where , in October 2024 , she pass the assessment with score that be exemplary and such that she be accept into the Intelligence Corps . however , by June of this year — some 16 month later — she still have not be give a start date , and just receive occasional hold communication from military authority . meanwhile , she get by with a series of menial part - time job , but have seemingly be leave in the lurch by her Army recruiter . I be not use her name because she have ask I not to , but I will give the Minister her detail later in the hope that we can process this matter soon rather than later . young people like my constituent , who be prepared to serve their country and so represent the good of their generation , deserve well . will the Minister comment on that privately ? will the Minister also commit to publish detailed target for processing application , allocate sufficient personnel to the recruitment pipeline and provide all successful candidate with a concrete start date within a reasonable time period ? I want to put on the record that the Veterans Minister be know as a legend when he serve in the Royal Marines and , to I , he remain a legend . I can send he an email and receive his response within 48 hour , which be enormously helpful to my constituent , who be the people I serve . in finish , I refer to Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn , who say that he be a patriot , but not a nationalist . as I finish my speech , I reiterate his word : I speak as a proud patriot , but never , ever a nationalist . it be both a pleasure and a privilege to close today ' s excellent debate on Armed Forces Day . I pay tribute to colleague across the House for their thoughtful and passionate contribution . I rise on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition to express our sincere thank to all those who serve and have serve in our armed force — regular , reservist , veteran and cadet — and to the family who support they every step of the way . Armed Forces Week , which begin on Monday and culminate this Saturday , 28 June , with Armed Forces Day , be a national moment to say one thing clearly and collectively : thank you . thank you to those defend the UK and our interest around the world . our armed force represent the very good of our country : committed , courageous and professional . they work tirelessly , often in the most challenging condition , to keep we safe and uphold the value that we share . today ' s debate have be particularly powerful because of the personal reflection share by so many right hon . and hon . member . the hon . member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) represent a strong military constituency — one in 20 serve , or have serve , in the military . have watch the hon . gentleman in defence debate , it be clear to I that he be a passionate advocate for his constituency , with strong military link . he talk about the Royal Military Police , a regiment that play a vital role that we need to hear more about . I enjoy hear about the airborne police officer unit — an interesting skillset that we could potentially see in the Met . he also talk powerfully about his constituent Kate and Rachel , veteran who face internal adversity because of their gender and sexuality . as he say , rightly , courage do not know any gender or sexuality . the hon . member for Mansfield ( Steve Yemm ) talk strongly about the skill that military people bring to civilian life . have see many veteran in my constituency make that transition , I know how many skill they bring . he advocate for more support for they to make that transition , and mention the real need for the armed force covenant to be strengthen . I be glad to hear about the reception he hold here recently in support of the covenant , and it would be good to support he in future such endeavour . we must ensure that the sacrifice make by our service personnel be never meet with silence , as he say , but with real lasting commitment and action . I agree with my right hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) that gratitude for service be not enough on its own . only a quarter of veteran believe that service be value , and I completely agree that that need to change . he speak powerfully about Northern Ireland veteran , especially the Special Air Service , a regiment in which he serve . he speak about the injustice that group of special force soldier , and other in the military , face from the opening up of domestic legal framework . those veteran be in battle that be fight under order , under the yellow card legal system and under the view of the Royal Military Police . there be strong legal framework surround those operation , and my right hon . Friend make the point that those veteran join up and serve our country , but the view be now that they can be prosecute in later life . that be not right , and I look forward to the issue be debate later this month and , I hope , overturn . the petition on the subject be currently live , and there have be a significant uptick in the number sign it in the last few hour . the hon . member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) make remark about her personal connection to the armed force , and her husband ' s service in the reserve . it be interesting to hear about the 216 Royal Artillery regiment in her constituency and her link to the Royal British Legion . she make a powerful case for great support for training , and I look forward to the Minister ' s response to it . I also echo her support for expand the cadet programme . I spend many happy year in the air cadet , and I see what value they bring to society and as a pathway for people to join the military . I align myself with her comment . my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) be , as ever , a strong advocate and champion for the military unit in his constituency . we regularly hear he call for more support . he serve the UK in operation during the global war on terror in Afghanistan and Iraq , and he know first hand the challenge that come from the evolution of war and the need for kit to keep pace with the evolution of threat . as he rightly say , no plan survive first contact with the enemy , and those word remain as true today as they have ever be . it be crucial that we not only learn the lesson of modern conflict , but ensure that our armed force retain a broad range of capability to meet the demand of the evolve environment that we may be involve with in the come year . my hon . Friend also make the fair and timely observation that make our armed force work on a hot Saturday in late June be perhaps not the good way to honour they . the hon . member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) rightly highlight the volunteer who work tirelessly behind the scene to ensure that our armed force be commemorate properly . they often miss out on enjoy the event themselves , so I hope that they will find time to relax and enjoy some sunshine with their family . we thank all of they and their grassroots group for their vital support for these commemoration . she also share a move story about her great - aunt and mother , which touch many of we in the Chamber . they welcome polish serviceman into their home and they become part of their family nearly 50 year ago , demonstrate how service personnel become deeply weave into our community and life . as always , I be sure the Red Arrows will deliver a magnificent display over Cleethorpes this weekend . I hope that she manage to enjoy an ice cream — and hopefully a few beer , too — with the Secretary of State when he be in her constituency this weekend . the hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) be the proud mother of serve Royal Navy sailor , Olly , whom she have speak about many time . she represent a city with a high number of service personnel and veteran — one of the high in the country — and one of the home of the Royal Navy . I say that as a Devon MP , and stand opposite the Minister , who represent Devonport . she also raise an interesting point around the protective service BTEC course . I have see the value of that at first hand in my constituency at Bicton college , and it be interesting to see young people flourish in that environment . again , just like the cadet , it provide a strong pathway for those who want to go into the military or other protective service . the hon . member for North Devon ( Ian Roome ) , again , represent a strong military constituency — 4 , 800 veteran and 11 % of household . he have long be a proud advocate for the Royal Marines , with the Commando Logistic Regiment in his constituency . I be impressed to hear about the work he have do with SSAFA , the armed force charity . it be enjoyable and interesting to go away with he recently on the trip he speak about to Normandy to see the D - day commemoration . it be particularly poignant to meet the D - day veteran Norman Ashford , who be 100 year old . he be a Royal Marine and , as the hon . Member say , make countless trip up and down on to the beach that day . I have a great deal of respect for he when I meet he and hear his story . the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) speak about the RAF photographic unit — tale of derring - do . it be a unit that I have enjoy learn about as the campaign have be grow , and I look forward to that debate be reschedule and bring back to the House . he make some interesting point about the contribution of people from all over the world , include the Commonwealth , to our armed force , and the need to celebrate they this Armed Forces Day . it be interesting to hear about Hardit Malik , the first indian fighter pilot in world war one with the Royal Flying Corps , fight against the famous german Red Baron . lastly , my near neighbour in the south - west , the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) , have a strong military family , and I have speak to she many time about her brother ' s service . she raise an interesting and important point about the pathway for people who want to join the military . she talk about her constituent try to join the Intelligence Corps and the wait time to join be far too long . it would be interesting to discuss whether something can be do to provide concrete start date . I , too , speak from personal experience . I be proud to have serve in the Royal Marines , and after leave regular service a decade ago , I be fortunate to continue as a Royal Marine reservist with the Royal Navy parachute display team . it be — to say the least — one of the more unconventional side - gig in public service , give I a literal bird ' s eye view of Armed Forces Day celebration . over several year , I have the privilege of parachuting into national Armed Forces Day event in Guildford , Cleethorpes and Llandudno . from thousand of foot above , see the crowd gather to show their support be genuinely humble . although I will admit that , at that height , my primary concern be not so much national pride as avoid crash - land into someone ' s picnic . those kind of event be not just pageantry , as member from across the House have say today ; they be powerful tool for engagement and recruitment . I have vivid childhood memory of attend large air show and other military display , but one personal favourite , and one that I be sure many hon . member attend , be the royal tournament at Earl ' s Court here in London . the Navy ' s high - octane field gun competition and the Royal Signals ' famous White Helmets motorcycle display team make a lasting impression on I , and without doubt help shape my decision to join the military . as defence spending rise , and as difficult choice be make to support that increase , it will be more important than ever to showcase our armed force and their capability . that visibility ensure public understanding and accountability for where taxpayer ' money be spend . there be also a broad point . as the national security strategy outline this week , the threat we face be serious . the possibility of a hostile attack on the UK , which for many decade be see as unimaginable , be now again within the realm of possibility . a time may come when we must once more defend the thing that we hold dear . we must therefore forge a renew relationship with defence — not see it just as a line in the Budget , but recognise it as a fundamental pillar of our national security and resilience . Armed Forces Day be about more than capability ; it be about morale . it be about recognise the extraordinary service of our sailor , soldier and aviator . public support matter , as it lift spirit , strengthen bond and remind those in uniform that their country stand firmly behind they . that support must go far than symbolic gesture , as we have hear repeatedly in today ' s debate . the armed force covenant be a solemn pledge — a year - round commitment from Government , business and community to treat those who serve , and their family , with fairness and respect in everyday life . the message from today ' s debate be clear : gratitude must be back up by action on housing , employment and a dignified transition to civilian life . these be responsibility we all share . the Government ' s strategic defence review rightly propose a whole - of - society approach to national defence . it be welcome , and it be necessary . defence be not just the task of our armed force ; it be a share civic responsibility . true resilience rely not only on military capability , but on strong institution , cohesive community and national unity . at the heart of that resilience be trust — a social contract between the nation and those who serve it . we must do all we can to honour that trust , which be why we can not ignore the serious concern raise by veteran , especially those who serve in Northern Ireland . the strength of feeling in that community be real and justified . my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington mention that in his speech . I place on record my thank to the Minister for Veterans and People , the hon . member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , for his principled support for a judicial review of the Clonoe inquest , and I hope his judgment be actively be seek by his colleague in the Northern Ireland Office , especially as they reflect on their plan to repeal the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . our veteran deserve clarity , compassion and fairness . the strength of the Royal Navy , the British Army and the Royal Air Force lie not just in firepower or training , but in the character of those who serve . their dedication , discipline and selflessness be a credit to our country . so let we use this Armed Forces Week not only to reflect , but to renew our commitment to serve those who serve we , to honour those who have wear the uniform , and to ensure that future generation understand the debt we owe . we be grateful . we be proud . we will remember they . we will support they . and we will thank they . member who have to sit through my opening remark will be pleased to know that I will not be repeat many of they , but I be keen to pick up on a number of point raise in their speech , which be so ably summarise by the hon . member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) . I thank hon . member for their contribution . at a time when it be easy to take political pot - shot across the Chamber on serious issue , today ' s debate have show that we can come together , cross - party , to support our people , to have a serious debate about the contribution our armed force make to our national security , and to raise genuine issue of concern with respect and thoughtfulness . sadly , not as many people will be watch this debate as watch other proceeding in the Chamber , but if do , they would see Parliament work effectively and properly . in a bipartisan spirit , perhaps the Minister will allow I to relay a brief apology . I promise the Chair of the Defence Committee that I would explain why he and some of the Committee be not here , when ordinarily they would be . they be on an overseas trip directly relate to defence business . it would help keep I honest if the Minister allow I to place that on the record . the right hon . Gentleman certainly do not want to offend the Chair of the Defence Committee , so I be glad that he have have the chance to put that on the record . what I hear in the debate , and what I hope our force will have hear if they be listen , be not only support for the man and woman who serve , and advocacy for the armed force as a brilliant career choice , but support for improvement to the transition from military life to civilian role , and support for those who have serve in the past ; we hear story of heroism and courage . that make for a good debate , and I be pleased that a number of member be able to pick out element from the strategic defence review . the Government have adopt all 62 recommendation from Lord George Robertson ' s report , and we will implement they in full . further announcement will be make about what we be implement and how we be take forward not only the SDR ' s recommendation , but its spirit . as we set a path for increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by April 2027 , to 3 % in the next Parliament , and to 3 . 5 % by 2035 , and for spend 1 . 5 % on resilience and homeland defence over in the same period , I hope there will be plenty of opportunity for member to make the case that increase defence spending can mean spend not just on kit and equipment , but on our people . I expect that to be hear loud and clear across the House , so that when we hear conversation about renew military accommodation , we know that there be an increase budget to pay for that work , and when we talk about value our people , we know there be above - inflation pay rise for they for the first time in a very long time . that be important . there be one thing that I will expect to see and hear more about in future debate . we hear lot of mention of our Army , Navy and Air Force and their traditional role , but in future debate on the armed force , I expect that we will hear more mention of those who work in cyber and the digital defence of our nation . the cyber direct entry pathway that we have open have be a success , and we look forward to announce the passing out of the first cohort later this year . the ability for we — the armed force and people who care about defence — to talk about cyber resilience and protect our digital infrastructure be just as important as protect against kinetic and more traditional military threat . indeed , I expect that in future year there will be more discussion of how we keep our space domain safe . I be glad that a number of hon . member be able to talk about their role and participation in the armed force parliamentary scheme . I be the Minister responsible for that , and I be proud of the way that the scheme have be expand in the past year . I thank the Armed Forces Parliamentary Trust for its support on that . the scheme be a superb opportunity for parliamentarian who have not serve , and for those who have , to experience a different perspective on military life . it allow they to understand what we ask of our people ; to listen and learn from they , their deployment and their experience ; and to bring that into the House and improve our work here . I turn to comment make in the debate . I be glad that the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , talk about the Forcer protocol . indeed , I expect all member of the House to ask their chief constable whether their police force be go with that . I undertake to do the same for Devon and Cornwall police , as will many of the other Devon MPs , I imagine . there be a real merit in the protocol , so I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for bring it to the House ' s attention . I be proud to be Plymouth ' s first ever out MP , and see the way that LGBT personnel and veteran be now speak about in the House fill I with pride . when I be grow up , there be not always the role model or the public debate that enable folk like I to feel that there be a place in the armed force for they . the remark make by my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) and other be very powerful . he say that courage know no gender or sexuality , which be absolutely right . we need to build that sentiment into our armed force as we seek to change the culture , so that everyone be welcome and there be no place for abuse . as we move to warfighting readiness , we need the contribution of people from every background to our armed force if we be to keep our nation safe . I be grateful to the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) for talk about the importance of payment to LGBT veteran . the priority order be establish by the Minister for Veterans and People . the initial payment have go to those over 80 and those who be sadly towards the end of their life , so that we can ensure that those payment be make before they leave this place . we have now establish the procedure for pay the large cohort of people who do not fit into that category , and the Minister for Veterans and People will make further announcement about how we will roll out the payment . we be pleased that the first payment have be make in full to the first cohort . I agree with the hon . member for Epsom and Ewell that Armed Forces Day be a starting point for serious change . I believe that change start on 4 July last year , but I take her comment in the spirit in which she make they . it be not enough to talk about change ; we have to take action . hopefully , she and member from across the House will see the strategic defence review be implement , the increase in defence spending , the increase pay for our force , and the housing improvement , all of which will contribute to improvement . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Steve Yemm ) , who speak about the armed force covenant be our collective promise , which be exactly right . as we look to put that fully into law , there will need to be a conversation . if I may be cheeky , Madam Deputy Speaker , I point out to right hon . and hon . member of all party that question on our armed force covenant need not be direct only to the Ministry of Defence . if the covenant be to be effective , we need every Government Department to understand their role in put the covenant fully into law . the Minister for Veterans and People have be undertake cross - Government work on that , and I imagine that there will be further such work in due course , as we build towards that legislation . in the hope that other Government Departments be listen , the Minister might recall that I say in my remark that at noon today the Northern Ireland veteran petition have just over 145 , 000 signature . I look a few second ago , and the figure be now just shy of 148 , 000 . perhaps people be inspire by the excellent speech by my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) . will the Minister convey to his colleague in the Northern Ireland Office that we do not want to throw our Northern Ireland veteran to the wolf — and clearly , from this petition , neither do the public ? I will return to the right hon . Gentleman ' s speech , so he will not have to wait long for my response , but first I will deal with some other point . I be grateful for the speech by my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) about the national Armed Forces Day event , which I be pleased to see back . she have a passion for the event and be serious about her community . she also have pride in and a close connection to the folk she mention — it be a very powerful speech . I be certain that the ice cream will be on the Secretary of State , especially now that he know he be go to the event , so she should expect plenty of dairy come her way . I thank the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) , who speak about RAF Lossiemouth , the importance of how we base our people and value the wide community . I be grateful to he for mention HMS Spey ; the offshore patrol vessel be do a superb job in the Indo - Pacific , as be her sister ship HMS Tamar . their contribution to uphold the international rule - base order and support our ally in the region be really important . she be a little ship with a big impact and be really very powerful there , so I be grateful for his comment . I encourage the hon . Gentleman not to forget the opportunity to talk about resilience spending . he talk about the spending of other Government Departments and council effectively enable homeland defence . that be precisely why the spending pledge agree at the NATO summit be that by 2035 , 1 . 5 % of GDP should be spend on homeland defence and other activity that bolster our resilience as a nation . I think he have a strong case to argue on that . NATO will shortly publish the full criterion , set out what money will come into that , but I believe that the example he give be good one to use in argue his case , so I encourage he to do that . my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) and I do indeed wave off HMS Prince of Wales when she leave for her deployment to the Indo - Pacific . that be a good opportunity to meet member of her community in Portsmouth . the carrier and the carrier strike group include people from all part of our country , who be all sail together , alongside many of our ally , include our norwegian friend , who have a frigate sailing on the entire deployment . when we celebrate the contribution of our armed force , let we remember the contribution of our ally to keep we safe today and in the past . I be very grateful for the intervention from the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) , who speak about Jack Dark ' s 102nd birthday . I be also grateful for the remark from the hon . member for North Devon ( Ian Roome ) , who speak about Norman Ashford , a D - day veteran . it be really important that we value and take extra care of those final few folk from the second world war . we must ensure that we capture their story and retell they , so that they be not forget . I be grateful for the contribution of all of they . my hon . friend the Member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) correctly raise the issue of the RAF photographic reconnaissance aircraft . I can report that the Minister for Veterans have indeed meet those involve in the campaign , as I suspect nearly every single person in the House have . if there be a public affair award for good lobbying campaign , this campaign would certainly deserve it . I understand that progress be be make , and that the campaign group meet Westminster city council to discuss the issue . the cost of what be be suggest would need to be meet by public subscription , and I have no doubt that it would be , so I expect positive progress . there be strong support for recognition of the bravery of the people who undertake these role in the second world war , and I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that issue . I be also grateful to he for give example of service personnel who , in recollection of wartime story , do not always get the attention that they deserve , include those from the Sikh community , who he speak about . it be good to have three front - Bench speaker from Devon ; that do not always happen in this place . I be grateful to the hon . member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) , who speak about the contribution that her family make . on the issue of the time of flight , as it be refer to in the Ministry of Defence , that be the time from sign up to attend a training establishment . we inherit a situation in which that time be over a year for some of our service , and that be not acceptable . in July last year , we be lose 84 % of people in the process , not because of medical problem or eligibility issue around nationality or criminal record , but simply because the process take too long . that be not acceptable . I be strongly against the criticism make that our young generation do not want to serve our nation , because that be not true . last year , 165 , 000 people try to join the British Army , and we hire 9 , 500 at the end . we lose the vast majority because the process be too long and slow . that be why we be reduce the time of flight . I be very happy to look into the casework matter that the hon . Lady raise if she write to I . the " 10 and 30 " policy that I mention in my opening remark should certainly make a difference when roll out fully across all three service . I will certainly try to discourage the Minister for Veterans and People from read the transcript of this debate ; be regard as a legend will no doubt boost his humbleness . I be also grateful to the hon . member for Exmouth and Exeter East for his concluding remark , and for his story of nearly crash - land in someone ' s picnic . he do not tell the end of that story , but as he be here in one piece , let we assume that it all go well . I be also grateful for the way in which he summarise the debate . my hon . friend the Member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) raise valid question from 216 Battery about training level . we have inherit a situation in which training — for both regular and reserve force — be often the first casualty of try to manage in - year budget pressure over a number of year . we be very aware of that within the Ministry of Defence . we be conscious that the increase in defence spend could , in part , make a difference to that , but as we have a number of challenge to deal with , we need to look at the good way of deliver increase training — particularly adventurous training , which be what many of our force want . I would be very happy to have a further conversation with my hon . friend , so that she can raise with I the particular of those issue . the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) , between make his speech and come back , have change his tie to look more like mine — I be very grateful for that fashion change . his remark , particularly about the contribution of the US air force basis in his constituency , be a good reminder of the close friendship we have . I be at the US embassy early today as part of a conference organise by the Council on Geostrategy , look at our transatlantic alliance . our military - to - military co - operation underscore the value of our relationship with our US friend , and I know that America really do value the basis in the UK that it be able to operate from . I entirely agree with the hon . member for Huntingdon that our armed force personnel should be pay properly , house properly , post sympathetically and grant stability . that be the intent of many of the change we be make . on the stability point , I be think in particular about where we be with british Army deployment , because Air Force and Navy personnel generally have great stability than their compatriot in the Army . we be aware of that issue and be look at it , but I be certain that the hon . Member will be send I lot of parliamentary question — possibly before I have even sit down . let I turn to the very serious issue raise by the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) , who speak about Northern Ireland veteran . he will know — because we have speak about it a number of time , and he have also speak with the Secretary of State and the Minister for Veterans — that we on the Government Benches feel very strongly that we need to support our veteran . we be seek to navigate through that process at the moment . the debate on the petition mention by a number of Members will take place on 14 July . I welcome that debate , which will be an opportunity to make the case for those people who serve our nation in support of peace in Northern Ireland . there be more work to be do in this area . after the right hon . Gentleman make his speech , I read the article in the Daily Mail about the launch of the campaign that he reference . it be certainly true that the Government seek to repeal the current Northern Ireland legacy Act , but what one have to get to the penultimate paragraph of the article to read be that we intend to replace it as well . the right hon . Gentleman choose his wording carefully about how that replacement need to work . the current Act be unlawful — it have be find to be so in a number of court — and it have not prevent some of the thing we be see at the moment , so we have to find a way forward in this area . the Northern Ireland Office be look at it at the moment , and we in the Ministry of Defence continue to have conversation with our NIO colleague — indeed , I think that be the point that the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford , be make in his intervention — and we will continue to do so . come , as I do , from a constituency in the north - east , let I say that member of our community , of course , serve in Northern Ireland for many year , so the issue of Northern Ireland veteran be just as important to those of we on the Government Benches as it be across the whole House . I be in the House on 21 May when the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland say that the Government come into office commit to remedy the failure of the legacy Act . that give great assurance to I , and I be sure it give great assurance to veteran in my constituency . do the Minister agree with the Secretary of State ' s comment ? I entirely agree — there be something that be not right , and it need to be resolve . I do not doubt the passion that Opposition Members , and indeed those on the Government Benches , feel about this issue . I share that passion . we need to find a solution to this issue that can provide peace of mind as well as the ability to address community concern . there be a path through , but we need to go carefully to make sure that we be cognisant of all the strong view , but I be certain that will happen . I be also certain that we will continue our conversation outside the Chamber as we work with Northern Ireland Office colleague , who have the lead in this policy space . I be grateful to the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington for raise the issue in this debate . this have be a good debate for Armed Forces Day . support come not just from the member who can speak in this debate ; I be conscious that a number of Members present have be unable to speak , due to the vagary of parliamentary procedure , include my hon . friend the Member for Motherwell , Wishaw and Carluke ( Pamela Nash ) , who sit behind I as the parliamentary private Secretary to the Secretary of State . she be attend Armed Forces Day event at the Motherwell United Services club on Saturday . my hon . friend the Member for Wellingborough and Rushden ( Gen Kitchen ) be the Whip on the government Benches early , and I be conscious that there be whip on both side of the House who might not be able to contribute verbally , but who I be certain will be support Armed Forces Day event in their constituency across the country . we need to ensure that the warm word and well - craft speech we have hear today be put into action all year round . it be not enough to have a day where we celebrate our armed force ; we need to recognise their service each and every day . as the nation see an increasingly uncertain and dangerous world on their tv screen and on their phone , it be the man and woman of our armed force who be at the pointy end of the defence of our nation , but we can all do something to increase the resilience of our defence . if everyone in the House update the operating system on their computer and phone , Britain would be more cyber - secure than it be beforehand . we all can do something . in this place in particular , Members of Parliament from all part of the House can continue to make the case for our people , for defence family , for investment , for well pay and for well equipment for our force . that be this Government ' s intent , and from the sentiment I have hear from all part of the House today , we can see that have cross - party support . I thank all hon . and right hon . member for their contribution , and I wish everyone a successful Armed Forces Day on Saturday . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider Armed Forces Day . float Solar Panels Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I be delighted to see the House so full for this Adjournment debate . I want hon . member who be stay to remember who be here . indeed , people in the Public Gallery might wish to make a note in their diary , too , because I hope that I will in some way blow the House ' s mind with what I be about to say and sow a seed that will grow into something fantastic . what we be here to discuss be float solar . member will know that I be the Member of Parliament for Spelthorne . I feel obliged to remind the House on regular occasion that Spelthorne be not in Lancashire or in Lincolnshire . it be everything south of Heathrow until one get to the River Thames . hon . member from around the House know my constituency well , because it be what they see when they take off from or land at Heathrow airport . I be select as the candidate for Spelthorne four day into the general election campaign . have spend 25 year in the Army , obviously I love a map . there be a very good saying , " if you don ' t understand what be go on , get a big map . " when I look at a map of Spelthorne , I be strike by these four massive block of blue , so I look into they . they be four raise reservoir , which hold half of London ' s drinking water . be a practical person , I first think to myself , " well , there be not many vote there ! " secondly , I think , " I can not really build any house there . " Spelthorne be 67 % green belt and water , and a large chunk of the rest of it be floodplain , so it be difficult to know what we might do to meet our housing target ; people get cram into the small island where development can happen . I be determined , though , to find some way to utilise the 2 , 000 acre of raise reservoir in my Spelthorne constituency . I look into it a little far , and come upon the concept of float solar . this be a terribly simple concept : simply take solar panel , attach they to plastic float , anchor those float to the bottom of the reservoir , and stre some wire to take an alternating current from the float solar panel . the clever bit , in term of intellectual property , be the anchor — because , as I be sure hon . member know , the depth of reservoir tend to vary by about 1 metre from time to time . equally , reservoir be drain and reassess on a rolling cycle of about 20 year . I thank my hon . and gallant Friend for allow I to intervene . we be tell that there be nothing new under the sun , but he be describe something that tick both box — it be quite remarkable . I learn much about reservoir from play by the side of the scenic Penwhirn reservoir , outside by home town of Stranraer . I also learn about they in geography class at Stranraer academy , and it strike I that one of the reason that reservoir level rise and fall be to do with evaporation , and water be obviously a precious resource . do cover reservoir help to combat evaporation ? my hon . friend pre - empt one of the many benefit of float solar that I will highlight to the House . he remember his physics higher well , because the placing of float solar reduce evaporation from the body that be cover by 70 % . give that the vast majority of the water in our reservoir be lose through evaporation every year , we will save a great deal more water if the Government decide to pursue this technology at a grand scale . part of my come here today be to speak to two large constituency within this House . there be 543 constituency that contain reservoir or man - make water source . similarly , countless member from across the House have very difficult decision to make about put solar farm on good agricultural land . essentially , what have happen be that the whole discussion in this area have become a zero - sum game . it be a battle between food security and energy security , and there have seem to be no way of unpick that — until now . globally , float solar have be put to practical application at large scale in China , India and Vietnam . the UK be formerly a leader in this space , because on the Queen Elizabeth II reservoir in 2016 , a grand technology demonstrator be put on and plug in , and it have be bang out 6 . 3 MW into Thames Water ' s water treatment facility ever since . that be enough to power 2 , 000 home . give that float solar cover less than 10 % of that reservoir , I be sure that hon . member can see the vast potential . I want to talk about some of the benefit of float solar , because they be legion . first , as hon . member will have work out already , there be the removal of the opportunity cost of put float solar panel on grade a agricultural land . if we do not have to put they all over Lincolnshire and we can put they on reservoir , that land can be use for grow food . my hon . and gallant Friend be talk about the use of prime agricultural land , and food security be part of national security , as be energy security and , indeed , water security . however , there be a huge trend of prime agricultural land be devoted to solar plant , include in my constituency of Epping Forest , where a new plan be about to go in for a 237 - acre plot between Thornwood and Epping Upland . he be articulate alternative for the placing of solar panel , and there be plenty of such place up and down the land — brownfield site , reservoir , railway siding , rooftop of agricultural building — so do he agree that we must protect prime farmland and the green belt , and make sure that solar panel go in the right place ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . I hope we be go to give hope across the House and therefore across the country that this alternative solution to put solar panel on grade a agricultural land be , to a certain extent , an answer to a maiden ' s prayer . not only do float solar remove the opportunity cost of put it on agricultural land , but one of its beauty be that it be twice as efficient as a land - base system . land - base system warm up because they be on the land , and as they warm up they become less efficient , whereas float solar panel , because of the evaporative effect on the underside , remain automatically cool and 100 % efficient throughout a sunny day . as the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be not here , unusually , perhaps I can fill in for he . we have already hear from one of my Essex colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) , about the controversy in Essex over a number of solar farm development on land . before the 2010 boundary change , I have a very large reservoir in my constituency at West Hanningfield , which would be ideal for the technology my hon . and gallant Friend be suggest . do he not believe that many hundred of other reservoir across the country would be so suited ? I do , indeed . I be not 100 % sure which Minister would respond to this debate , so I have have only the brief of moment to look at the lake in Burgess park in the Minister ' s Peckham constituency to see whether that may be suitable for float solar . we have talk about the opportunity cost and about double efficiency . I be sure hon . member will have work this out , but the 2 , 000 acre of reservoir in my Spelthorne constituency be raise , which mean no one can see the top of they unless they be fly off to Torremolinos or landing from Dubai . therefore , there would be none of the visual vandalism that people object to so much , and the carpeting of our beautiful country in solar panel would go away too . I must declare that I share an office with my hon . and gallant Friend , so I know an awful lot about float solar because he be so passionate about it . as a result , I would point out that Grafham water in my Huntingdon constituency be the eighth large reservoir in the country by volume and the third big by area . it be also a raise reservoir , but , ironically , it be surround by solar panel to generate electricity that we can see from the ground . he obviously agree with I that it would be a fantastic idea to use that enormous stretch of water for some float solar . I be grateful to my hon . and gallant Friend for join this merry band of evangelist for float solar , and for seek to get in on the ground floor with the inclusion of the reservoir in his constituency . within minute , he be immediately see the opportunity , and I congratulate he on that . I be really happy to join this debate , which be not only amusing , but very educational . for I , it be a matter of great concern for this country to conserve the water supply we have . do the hon . Member therefore agree with I that float solar stop the evaporation of water because it avoid direct sunlight hit the water , and that it also conserve water ? the hon . member , with whom I serve on the Defence Committee , make a very important point about future - proof the United Kingdom ' s water supply from increase temperature . in Australia , I understand that reservoir be be cover at great expense to reduce evaporation . he might know that where float solar panel exist , they reduce evaporation by 70 . in the case of the Queen Elizabeth II reservoir , that is 100 tonne of water a day . it be absolutely extraordinary . I know member be think , " well , Lincoln , it couldn ' t get any well , " but I have to tell the House that there be still some further benefit . [ hon . member : " More ! " ] where reservoir be own by water company and the water company want to use the electricity themselves , there be no requirement for planning permission . when we consider the turmoil that land - base system have to go through over many , many year , and the paroxysm the nation put itself through before it put in a land - base system , we should note that float solar can be deploy within a few week . this be another issue where the Conservatives can perhaps give more information to those on the Government Benches . we have real issue in many part of rural Britain with the energy infrastructure that have to go alongside solar farm — for example , the massive mega - pylon in East Anglia . if the energy can be use onsite or if there be exist energy infrastructure , as there often be around reservoir due to hydro and other factor , that be another great reason why float solar be a solution that everyone can get on board with . my hon . friend make a fantastic point . the Queen Mary reservoir in my constituency have a plug - in point to the national grid at one end of it . the ability to minimise the disruption that be cause by place solar farm away from where the power be need be certainly a consideration that play into this . hon . member will think , " well , that must be his list complete . those must be all the benefit of float solar , because there can ' t be any more . " but I say to the House that one of the most astonishing thing about float solar be that it improve the water quality underneath , as it be denude of light and heat . there be thing that grow in the water which the water company subsequently have to filter out to make it tap - ready for we and our constituent . the water company have to use few filtrant where the surface have be cover by float solar . we have cover the evaporative effect , so I think I have make the case for float solar . my hon . friend make a strong point about be able to use float solar to obviate the need for development on green - belt land in other part of the country . be he aware that a development have be propose by Bloor Homes at Dollymans Farm in my constituency for up to 1 , 300 house , which be a major issue in the ongoing by - election in Wickford Park ? do he agree that to prevent the housing at Dollymans Farm , people should vote for the excellent conservative candidate , Lewis Hooper , before the poll close tonight ? we have go from Cooper to Hooper ! I be delighted to follow my right hon . and gallant Friend ' s endorsement , and wish everyone there the opportunity to get to the poll today to exercise their democratic right . I be very grateful to my hon . and gallant Friend for give way a second time . I do wonder if I may have stumble across another advantage to float solar , which may not have occur to he . if water quality be improve , will that not help the fish ? clatteringshaw loch reservoir in my constituency have some of the good pike fishing in the country . I wonder if the fish might benefit from have a roof over their head . on Tuesday , I visit the Queen Elizabeth II reservoir , which be a closed site own by Thames Water . I be not aware that there be any fish there , but there be certainly bird life . it be important to make the point that the general planning norm and all the modelling have be base on cover only 15 % of these reservoir , in order to leave sufficient space for leisure use , include fishing , no doubt , and for bird life . the bird I see on the Queen Elizabeth II on Tuesday be warm themselves very happily on the float solar panel , because , of course , by be on the panel , they be predator free , as nothing can attack they there . " how big could this be ? " , I hear the House roar . how big could this be ? I thank my hon . friend for that . the instal base of every single solar panel in the United Kingdom be produce 17 GW . if we be to cover 15 % of man - make reservoir in this country , we would double the national capacity , add a furth 16 GW without touch an inch of agricultural land . that be absolutely extraordinary . in so do , we would create 80 , 000 job in the construction phase and 8 , 000 job in the maintenance phase . my plea to the Minister — who I know be put the finishing touch to the Government ' s solar road map — be that float solar should play a much great part in the final road map than it do in the first draft . I be grateful to my right hon . and hon . friend for their support ; I hope this debate have be educational and informative , and that they be now fully sign up to the float solar brother and sisterhood , which will go forth from this place and evangelise for the good cause . I thank the hon . and gallant Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) for secure a debate on this important issue and for prosecute his case for float solar with such flourish . I also wish to put on the record that the Minister for Energy , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , be desperate to be here and be very sorry that he can not be , but I be glad that I be able to stand here in his place . I be also glad that the hon . and gallant Gentleman be able to make his speech today , as I know he be not able to intervene in the recent solar debate . let I start by say that I absolutely agree . the Government be very clear that , like the hon . and gallant Gentleman , we believe there be an exciting role for float solar . it be a new technology , but one that we think have huge potential . developer around the world start to come forward with utility - scale proposal in the past decade , and several large project have be construct in recent year , include installation with the capacity to generate hundred of megawatt of electricity , which have mainly be in China . the hon . and gallant Gentleman have very effectively set out the upside of float solar , so I will not reiterate they . however , I want to put on the record that we agree , and that we recognise many of those upside . I will say a little about the state of float solar in the UK today . there have be some deployment of float solar in the UK . Lightsource lead a project on the Queen Elizabeth II reservoir , which be just outside the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , as he mention . the project use 24 , 000 solar panel to generate around 20 % of the site ' s electricity need . it be , at the time of construction , Europe ' s large float solar installation . there be now other , small project across the country , but the scale be still nascent and very limited . we have already hear about Grafham Water , which be a large reservoir in my constituency . just to the north of my constituency , in North East Cambridgeshire , we be about to start build the Fens reservoir , which be , as I be sure the Minister be aware , a joint project between Cambridge Water and Anglian Water . it will be 50 million cubic metre , and the development consent order be expect to go in in 2026 , with actual construction start in 2029 . do the Minister agree that this be a fantastic opportunity to try out this nascent technology on a large project , which could generate so much energy in the Cambridgeshire area ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . there be many scheme and huge opportunity , and the Government be work with industry to think about what the potential be across the country . new proposal be come forward , and we be try to engage with they . although we see that there be huge potential , it be also important to put that in the context of some of the challenge we face as we try to grow float solar . we be try to do our part to work with industry , so we want to ensure that we deal with some of the obstacle and barrier to the scheme that be come forward — for example , planning or investment certainty . float solar project can apply to the Government ' s flagship contract for difference scheme , and they do . I know that one of the argument in favour of float solar , which the hon . and gallant Gentleman put forward , and which be reiterate by other hon . member , be that it will reduce the amount of land that we need to use . argument have be make about agricultural land and constrain the amount of ground - mount solar panel on they . I gently say , however , that if we look at the statistic , we see that only 0 . 1 % of land in the UK be cover by ground - mount solar at the moment — a minuscule amount . even with the expansion that we be actively try to encourage , we be still talk about a fraction of UK land that will only ever be use for ground - mount solar , so it be important to put that in context . the Minister be right to point to the figure now , but this be a grow problem . one of the difficulty with the land that go under solar panel be that it tend to be south - face land , which be prime agricultural land . that be where the crop would normally go , so this be a grow problem . I recognise that point , but even with the expansion , we be still talk about only a fraction of land . inevitably , regional and local government will make a judgment about the land that we protect . everyone recognise that we must have prime agricultural land , because we need it , so we be make decision , and local government will also be make decision in that context . I just point out to the Minister that she could save herself a vast amount of political pain , because , apart from a few swan that I see , a couple of seagull and one man from the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds , there ain ' t many people who be go to complain about put float solar on raise reservoir . I be always in the market for less pain . let I say a little bit about some of the constraint . eligible bid have be submit to our contract for difference scheme , but unfortunately none have yet be successful . that be because the cost of float solar be about 10 % to 15 % high than those of ground - mount project , and the reason for that be the cost of the float structure on which the panel sit . and we hear from the sector that these can account for nearly half of the cost of the project . moreover , float solar require expensive underwater cable , which cost more than land - base system . therefore , although we be very keen to encourage this technology and to encourage the sector to grow , there be more that need to be do in order to make they cost effective . from a Government perspective , it be critical that every scheme and every project that we support be cost - effective , so that , in the end , taxpayer be not foot the bill for technology that be too expensive . I thank the Minister for allow I to intervene again . she be make a powerful argument for look again at the CfD scheme , which be notoriously complicated and very difficult . I think we need a two - pronged approach — we need some change to CfD , but obviously technology associate with solar be move on all the time , so perhaps the two could come together . we will always keep this area under review . we recognise the potential of the technology , and we will continue to work with industry to bring down cost . as the hon . Member say , there be reservoir and waterway where there be potential problem , but there be also the potential for it to be painless . if we can help to unlock the technology , there will absolutely be appetite from the Government for this . we be try to invest in research and development in this area , and we be put in Government support and investment to unlock that . finally , the hon . and gallant Gentleman mention the solar taskforce . we be work at pace to deliver the taskforce ' s recommendation . the taskforce have effectively bring together industry and Government to discuss the action need to scale up solar deployment , in line with our 2030 clean power mission . it have identify the need for a road map to address the specific barrier to float solar and other innovative technology , and a sub - group have be convene to focus on this specific topic . I wonder whether the taskforce have engage with the company that run the Queen Elizabeth solar farm ; it be call Bluefield — very clever name ; very clever company . it write to the Secretary of State early in the year , some four month ago , but be yet to receive a reply . I would be grateful to know whether the Department be engage with Bluefield and whether I could nudge the Secretary of State to reply to its letter ? I thank the hon . and gallant Gentleman for that ; his nudge have be take , and I will pass that on to the Minister for Energy . as a Department , we be try to engage extensively with industry on how we will take forward the complex and difficult challenge as we try to deliver our clean power mission . if company and organisation can lend their insight and knowledge to help we develop well policy , we be always in the market for that , so I will pass on the nudge . we be finish the final touch to the solar road map , and it be due to be publish very soon . while I will not disclose the detail of it , I assure hon . member that the question of float solar will be address within it . we recognise that float solar be an exciting area , and we think it have huge potential for deployment in the UK . we be see the technology be deploy more broadly in other country , and we want to be part of that . the hon . and gallant Gentleman have talk about the benefit for the grid , water quality , consumer of electricity and , ultimately , climate change . there be much to like about float solar . the challenge for we be to work with industry to ensure that we can unlock its potential . that mean reduce the cost , ensure that it be cost - effective , and ensure that we can deploy the technology . the one commitment I will make on behalf of the Government be that we will always engage with industry as we do this work . we want the innovation , insight and experience of the bright and the good as we try to build up our clean power sector , so we will work with industry to unlock the huge potential that we believe be there . question put and agree to . House adjourn .