it be an honour to be call to give my maiden speech , Ms Cummins . I start by thank the hon . member for Colne Valley ( Paul Davies ) for his speech . he speak about a spirit in his community that you could touch ; he have a pride in his community that we can feel , and can almost touch as well . he speak about the selflessness of service to the community , a point echo in excellent speech give today by the hon . member for Sheffield Central ( Abtisam Mohamed ) , for Shrewsbury ( Julia Buckley ) , for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) , for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) , and for Bridlington and the Wolds ( Charlie Dewhirst ) . it be my honour to speak in their company . Convention require that I say a few word about my predecessor , and I have be advise that , despite political difference , these should be complimentary and civil . I have try , but the good that I can say be that the view of the last MP for Woodstock belong to a different time — which be quite understandable , since Lord Randolph Churchill hold it until the parliamentary borough of Woodstock be abolish in 1885 . for over a century , Woodstock disappear from the constituency name in this House . meanwhile , the town of Bicester have never previously be name in a constituency . Bicester and Woodstock be a fusion of four previous constituency . I therefore have no immediate predecessor to refer to , but I want to thank Robert Courts , John Howell , my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) and Victoria Prentis for their service to the community in my constituency . like any new Member , I be eager to learn from how other have do thing , so I be grateful to have such a diversity of approach to draw on . I be fortunate to be call on to ask a question in the first Prime Minister ' s Question Time of this Parliament . I speak then about the River Evenlode , but I could equally have refer to the Rivers Cherwell , Dorn , Glyme or Ray . each cut a path through my constituency and each have to carry its unfair share of pollutant from Thames Water ' s sewage spill . tackle the pollution of our river and waterway be a common concern among my constituent during the election campaign , and I welcome the Prime Minister ' s undertake to work across party to address this scandal . alongside our waterway , the railway be significant feature of my constituency . we have no few than seven station . to address the subject of this afternoon ' s debate , at each you will find passenger keen to see improvement . the traveller through Bicester North bemoan the age of the roll stock , which break down far too often , and the shorten train with their inadequate seating . constituent near Bicester Village be deeply concerned about the future closure of the London Road level crossing , which would cut off those live in south - east Bicester from the rest of the town . I hope the Rail Minister , to whom I have write , will respond positively to my request to ensure that East West Rail bring forward sufficient funding for alternative crossing for all user . another feature of my constituency be the rapid propose growth of town and village , under plan adopt by the last government and support by conservative local council in 2017 . Bicester have already see tremendous growth . a similar scale of development be plan for Eynsham and the wide Kidlington area , include Begbrooke and Yarnton . as this government prepare for an increase in housing provision , the lesson from area like those in my constituency must be learn . my constituent understand the need for more home for local resident , and especially for those who can not access social housing , but they want to know that sufficient infrastructure will accompany new home . I be talk about not just improvement to the hard engineering for travel , grid connection , sewage and other utility , but also the social infrastructure of school , GP surgery , dispense chemist and NHS dentist , as well as community , youth and sport centre . we must make sure that these service be fund and deliver before new home be release . I have live in the constituency for over 12 year , and my wife and I have raise our four child there . they attend local school and be active in local sport club . long before I run for this election , they ensure that I know the future constituency well by drag I to most of the sport ground and sport hall that it contain . I owe my place to the many voter who put I here , but I would not be here without the steadfast support of my family , and I be so pleased that they be here today . for some , that support have come with encouragement ; for other , it come with occasional embarrassment about my endeavour . but from all , it have come with love , affection , and a willingness to keep I ground through the occasional well - deserve put - down . I be truly grateful to they and hope that they know how much I appreciate their support . my constituency contain a vibrant mix of community beyond its two town . famously , Kidlington contend to be the large village in England , with its population of over 13 , 000 . when the parish council suggest in 1987 that it be a town , irate resident force it to back down and reinstate village status . that do not , however , explain why group of Chinese Harry Potter fan be spot take photo outside suburban home in the village in 2016 . despite extensive search , I never find the Dursleys of Privet Drive on the electoral roll . one of the great pleasure of represent this area be travel across its stunning countryside and discover the passion for history , environment and community that burn in each town and village . I can not do justice to that diversity today , but I say thank you to the thousand of constituent who contribute to their community as town and parish councillor , school governor , village f ê te organiser , wildlife champion , Royal British Legion fundraiser , youth sport coach , or food bank collector , and in many other role besides . every week , as I visit organisation in the constituency , I be inspire by the selfless action of those who put community first and build strong relationship , one freely give hour at a time . it be that sense of community and of what we can do for each other that bring I here today . from volunteer as a school governor , I come to see how both the setting and implementation of national policy have deep local impact . I become a county councillor in 2021 and see up close how local government have be hollow out by national funding decision that respect neither the role that local authority play in deliver critical service , nor the unique insight they hold at local level about the need of their resident . those experience put I on the path towards stand for election , and it be a huge honour now to be a Member of this House . I hope that during my time here I can serve my community with the same selflessness and energy show by so many of my constituent .