business before Questions Norwich Livestock Market Bill [ Lords ] Bill read the third time and pass , without amendment . Royal Albert Hall Bill [ Lords ] second reading oppose and defer until Monday 14 July at seven o ' clock ( Standing Order no . 20 ) . before we begin , I would like to take a moment to remember Lord Tebbit , the former right hon . member for Chingford , who die yesterday . he be one of the giant of the Thatcher era , before his political career be cut short by the attack on the Grand hotel in Brighton . the thought of the whole House be with his family and friend . oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — Crown Court Backlog what step her Department be take to reduce the Crown court backlog . what step her Department be take to reduce the Crown court backlog . what step her Department be take to reduce the Crown court backlog . the Government inherit a record and rise court backlog . we be invest more than the Conservatives ever do , and fund a record allocation of Crown court sitting day — 110 , 000 day this year , which be 4 , 000 more than during the last government — but we must reform , too . Sir Brian Leveson will soon present his recommendation for deliver once - in - a - generation reform and swifter justice for victim . in Essex , 20 % of case be stop after a defendant have be charge because victim be drop out and withdraw their support . with some waiting year for their case to get through the court , be it any wonder that they give up on justice ? do the Secretary of State agree that we need radical action now to stop the backlog from get any big in place like my constituency of Harlow ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . victim on many occasion feel retraumatise by the criminal justice system because of the long delay . defendant know that case be take too long to be hear ; too many of they think that they can game the system , and that if they wait long enough , victim will drop out . that be why we be determined to deliver swifter justice for victim . it be why we have deliver a record number of sit day in the Crown court this year , and it be why we will do once - in - a - generation reform of our court after Sir Brian publish his review . thank to the massive court delay inherit from the Conservatives , as the Secretary of State say , resident in Dartford continue to face huge delay in get case involve they to court . what assurance can she give that the delay will reduce , and that for my constituent , it will not continue to be a case of " justice delay be justice deny " ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that the old adage , " justice delay be justice deny " , have come true . we know that we need bold reform . we have to get the backlog down , and we have to deal with the rise and record demand come into the system as well . that be why we have make a record allocation of Crown court sitting day , but we also need bold , once - in - a - generation reform . his constituent and the country deserve nothing less . the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme want thug and criminal to be hold to account and to feel the full force of the law , and victim of crime to get the justice they deserve . in the west midland — my home region and the Lord Chancellor ' s — the Crown court backlog have increase by over 3 , 000 case since 2016 . it be clear that we need an overhaul of the system , and to speed up justice . will the Lord Chancellor tell we two thing ? when do she expect the Leveson report to be publish , and what may it mean for the future of jury trial ? the publication of Sir Brian Leveson ' s review be due very soon . my hon . friend will understand why I can not give any the exact date , but once Sir Brian have publish his finding , the Government will consider they in due course , and we will come to the House first with our full response . jury trial will remain a cornerstone of our justice system in the most serious case , but we have to recognise that they take five time long than case hear in magistrate court , and magistrate court already hear 90 % of all criminal trial . with victim wait so long for their day in court , we must ask whether there be case be hear by jury today that need not be hear by jury in future . the rise in the Crown court backlog in 2024 be 7 , 051 additional case ; that be 588 extra case on the backlog every month . the figure for March 2025 show an additional rise over three month of 2 , 300 ; that be 769 additional case on the backlog every month . not only be the position get bad under the Lord Chancellor ' s leadership , but the rate at which it be get bad be increase . can she explain to the House why the rate be get bad , and why , when in November the Lady Chief Justice offer 6 , 500 additional sitting day , she do not accept every single one of those ? I be rather surprised by that question from the hon . Gentleman , because he be normally across the detail . let I tell he two point of detail that be miss from his question . first , he know that the demand come into the system be rise . we have record number of case come into the system , which be a good thing , because it mean that victim be seek justice , but the system have not be able to cope with that demand . secondly , he should know that there be a difference between judicial capacity , which be what the Lady Chief Justice have speak about , and system capacity . unless he and the Conservatives have suddenly discover a system that will 3d print new judge , lawyer , prosecutor and defence barrister overnight , I think he will recognise that there come a point at which additional money do not buy we the ability to go fast . that be what I have to reckon with as Lord Chancellor . I have set the sit day at 110 , 000 because that be the max for the system , and that be fully fund . we will consider once - in - a - generation reform to get to the bottom of this problem and fix it once and for all . Hannah contact I for the first time in August last year after numerous stalk incident , online abuse and violent threat from a member of her family . he be still at large almost a year on , despite four arrest . the court date keep be put back due to the backlog . there have be further breach of the bail condition and a restraining order issue , but we have hear that a fourth trial will be delay until 2026 at the early . what be the Lord Chancellor able to do to help victim who be already in the system , and who continue to be abuse by a perpetrator ? I will happily look at the detail of the case that the hon . Lady raise . some of that relate to charge and what the police and other be do , but I will ensure that she get a full response from across Government on some of the specific . let I observe that we make a whole range of victim support available to victim as they navigate the criminal justice system , and we will continue to do so ; I recommend that she recommend some of those mechanism to her constituent . we have make a record allocation of funding to the Crown court , but we recognise that we need to go far , as we will after the publication of Sir Brian Leveson ' s report . the Crown court backlog stand at approximately 73 , 000 case annually , and rape and sexual assault trial in Leicester Crown court face delay of up to three year . what step be the Department take to reduce that backlog and ensure that serious offence be bring to trial more efficiently to prevent further trauma for victim and the miscarriage of justice ? the hon . Gentleman be right that the delay in the system and the long wait for trial be cause huge amount of trauma to victim , who regularly tell I , he and other member from across this House that they feel retraumatise by the criminal justice system when they seek justice . I be not willing to tolerate that , which be why I have make record funding available . I recognise right at the outset that the system can not carry on as it have do for all these year . we need to ask a big question about the sort of case in our system that get a jury trial , and those that do not . this Government will pursue once - in - a - generation reform of our Crown court . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . last year , 839 magistrate court trial and 186 Crown court trial have to be cancel because the defendant be not bring to court on time by prisoner escort contractor . we expect Sir Brian ' s report very shortly , which will have a range of proposal on how to reduce the unprecedented backlog in the Crown court . do my right hon . friend agree that however effective those reform prove to be , they will be undermine from the start unless the performance of contractor such as Serco improve ? my hon . friend be right that the performance of contractor need to improve . he and I have discuss that , and the issue regularly come up in oral question in relation to the contract for electronic monitoring . we monitor those contract regularly . we be determined to pursue once - in - a - generation reform , but my hon . friend will know that the whole system need to become more productive and efficient . that be why there will be a second part to Sir Brian Leveson ' s work , which will report later in the year , and which will look at productivity and efficiency across the criminal justice system . I regularly discuss these matter with the Criminal Justice Board as well . one of the most important thing we can do , as the Lord Chancellor seem to indicate , be reduce the number of case go into the system by reduce reoffende where possible , include intergenerational reoffending . give that 65 % of boy with a parent in prison will go on to offend , what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that the child of prisoner be properly identify and support , so that they do not become the next generation of people in prison ? the right hon . Gentleman raise a really important point , and I be grateful to he for do so . focus on the child of prisoner be a manifesto commitment of our party , because — exactly as he say — there be a cycle there that society need to break , particularly for the child of male prisoner , and especially their son . we be lead work on join up information sharing across Government to make sure that those child be identify , properly support , and able to break the cycle of offend in their family . we must do so in a way that do not stigmatise those child and push they away from those who want to help they . sensitivity and delicacy be require , but the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to recognise the problem , which we be work on with colleague in other bit of Government . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the liberal Prime Minister William Gladstone be right when he say , " Justice delay be justice deny " . he would look on the inheritance that this Government receive from the Conservative Government as a matter for great shame . while creative solution be require to tackle the backlog , the jury trial — which we hear may be at risk for some — be a critical safeguard on state power , and be key to a liberal and free society . ahead of the Leveson report , which be come out very soon , can the Government tell we how they will increase the overall capacity of the court system to dispense justice , as oppose to potentially undermine justice altogether ? I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson for that question , but I would challenge he on two point . I do not think we be undermine justice in this country , when he himself recognise that justice delay be justice deny . we be try to properly think through , " what be a good system for we to proceed with in this country ? " as he know , 90 % of all criminal case already go to the magistrate court . that be why we will pursue the reform that we have set out . private contractor : Justice Services what step she be take to ensure that private contractor deliver justice service be hold to account . we inherit a set of contract from the previous Government , some of which be not perform as we would like , particularly in the area of maintenance and electronic tagging . the Prisons Minister in the other place be grip this situation and drive progress , with regular meeting to review performance . in 2013 , Serco be fine £ 68 . 5 million for overcharge the Government for electronic tagging , but it be still award the new £ 200 million contract in 2023 . give the Secretary of State ' s comment in March that the performance of Serco be " not good enough " , can the Minister explain what a private company actually need to do for the Government to see it as unfit to hold a contract such as this one ? while the performance of Serco have be unacceptable , as the hon . Gentleman say , we have make progress , and performance be improve . we have impose fine for poor performance , and will not hesitate to employ further contractual remedy or other measure should they be require , but this be a contract that we inherit from the conservative party , and we be do our good to make it work . I thank the Minister for that response , and this Government be do their good to make thing work , but Channel 4 have reveal that the contract with Serco be fundamentally fail . in the answer to my write question in June , Serco ' s performance be still deem to be unacceptable , so where be we with bring Serco around to perform properly ? if it do not do so , will the Government consider cancel that contract and bring those service back in - house ? all option be always under review , but as I have say , performance under that contract be improve . the Prisons Minister in the other place be grip this issue , and we will get to where we need to get to . legal aid : rural Areas what step she be take to help provide access to legal aid to people in rural area . People must be able to access legal aid , regardless of where in the country they live , and this Government have make substantial new investment . on the civil side , in housing and immigration , we have announce uplift worth £ 20 million ; in respect of criminal law , criminal legal aid solicitor will receive an additional £ 92 million a year . the Legal aid Agency work hard to ensure that the supply of , and access to , legal aid be secure across the whole of England and Wales . from the lack of a rural crime strategy to reduce access to legal aid , our rural community be be leave behind . in Harpenden , one farm alone have report 56 fly - tipping incident in five year , with the injustice that the most recent incident be cost the farmer around £ 40 , 000 . proper legal support for victim of rural crime could make a world of difference , so how be the Government ensure fair access for our rural community , include face - to - face legal aid support ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that we need to ensure access to legal aid for those who live in rural area . the Legal aid Agency be satisfied that legal aid service across all category be adequate in her constituency of Harpenden and Berkhamsted . Digital technology be transform access to justice through remote consultation and government - fund website , such as Advicenow . I encourage her constituent to access legal aid through those mean , as well as through local provider . Prison officer : term and Conditions of Service what progress she have make on review term and condition of service for prison officer . I pay tribute to the essential work that our prison officer do , day in , day out . this year ' s pay award deliver another real - term pay rise for our frontline prison staff . we be committed to effective training and development of exist staff , as deliver through the Enable programme , alongside the provision of extensive wellbeing service . I be in correspondence with the Minister of State for Prisons , Probation and Reducing reoffende last October , but he sit in the other place . in January , I be advise by the Minister in this place that the Secretary of State be await advice about the range of term and condition issue for prison officer . I be also advise later in the spring , again from the Dispatch Box , that it be right that the situation be be " keep under review " . I thank the Minister for the thoughtful and sincere way in which he have engage with I in recent month , but give that I have be ask about this issue for nine month , can he provide an update today on progress with the advice , and on exactly what be be review ? the hon . Member and I have a useful meeting a short time ago to explore all these issue , and I can reaffirm that the Lord Chancellor and the Department be fully engage with the Prison Officers Association on this and other issue . I call the shadow Secretary of State . there have be a spate of attack on prison officer in recent month by islamist terrorist . one study even reveal that terrorist inside prison be teach organise criminal how to make bomb . it have get so bad that former governor believe that the threat pose to frontline staff by radicalise Islamists be now intolerable . can the Minister tell we what his assessment be of the threat from islamist gang , and what on earth he be do about it ? we be work hard to enhance security and ease crowd in order to curb violence , include through a new £ 40 million investment to stop contraband , which put our hard - work staff at risk . assault on staff and the other issue that the right hon . gentleman mention be unacceptable . that be why we be firmly and securely take action . we be mandate the use of protective body armour in the high - risk unit and on the long - term high - security estate , which hold some of the most dangerous prisoner . we be take action , while the previous Government fail . Prison Officer Morale : Pension age what recent assessment she have make of the potential impact of lower the pension age of prison officer on prison officer morale . prison officer benefit from the civil service pension scheme , which offer excellent public sector term , low employee contribution and a 28 . 97 % employer contribution , but we recognise that pension age be an important issue for prison officer . that be why we be fully engage with the union on this issue . the last Government hike up prison officer ' pension age to 68 , and then walk away from negotiation that be set up to partially reverse that unfair and unrealistic policy . this devastate morale , which be now bad than ever , especially with violence against staff at record high . be this government prepare to do what it take and clean up yet another Tory prison mess ? will Ministers finally get back around the table with the Prison Officers Association to negotiate a fair pension deal for its member ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to point to the fact that this be yet another Tory mess that we have inherit . as I have say , we value the work of the POA , and we recognise the significant work of prison officer and the strength of feeling on this issue . we will continue to engage with the POA and other to try to find the good way forward . there be a problem in our prison across the United Kingdom . it be a two - spectrum problem , in that there be an increase in turnover , with prison officer leave early , while the problem of the pension continue . can the Minister increase the intensity of discussion with the POA to try to reach a more satisfactory outcome to which the Department and the prison officer concern be amenable ? the hon . Gentleman make a fair point . we need to make progress on this issue , and we be determined to do so . violence against Women : Criminal Justice System what step she be take to support victim of violence against woman through the criminal justice system . we be fund police support service such as independent sexual adviser and domestic abuse adviser . we have launch domestic abuse protection order in select area , and , as recommend by the sentencing review , we be explore the possibility of expand the use of domestic abuse specialist court . we have ask Sir Brian Leveson to conduct a review of our criminal court with the ambition of reduce the time for which victim wait for justice . a woman from Winchester write to I say : " it feel as though every department that should have protect we have instead fail we " . after year of high - risk domestic abuse , she go through a CID investigation to prove that she need financial separation , but the police miss the Crown Prosecution Service investigation deadline and no charge be bring . she be now unable to secure child maintenance . her abuser remain in financial control , which be effectively enable by Government system . what discussion be the Minister have with colleague in the Department for Work and Pensions and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to ensure that perpetrator of domestic abuse can no long use financial system to maintain power and control over their victim ? the hon . Member have make the important point that this be not just a criminal justice problem to be solve , but a problem for every single Department . that be why we have a cross - government strategy on tackle violence against woman and girl , which include economic abuse . along with the Safeguarding Minister , I regularly meet Treasury and DWP colleague in order to get to grip with the problem , and we will publish our strategy in the come month . I welcome all the work that the Secretary of State and her team be do in this important area , for instance through the Women ' s Justice Board . at least 57 % of woman in prison and on probation be victim - survivor of domestic abuse , and in many case their alleged offending be directly link with their experience of that abuse . what consideration have the Minister give to the introduction of an effective defence for domestic abuse victim who use force against their abuser , and for those who be coerce into offending ? I know that my hon . friend care deeply about this issue . she will be aware of the work that the Women ' s Justice Board be do with the Department , some of the review by David Gauke include , specifically , the sentencing review , and Baroness Casey ' s recent rapid review of groom gang ; all that work be connect with defence for victim . we be actively consider this matter , and I will happily work with my hon . friend and the Centre for Women ' s Justice to develop further policy . I call the shadow Minister . the whole House will remember the murder of Sarah Everard and the national debate about violence against woman and girl that it provoke . Sarah ' s parent , Susan and Jeremy , have many positive experience of the criminal justice system , but they be deeply upset by the restriction that be place on what they could say in their victim impact statement . I think that be wrong , the Domestic Abuse Commissioner think it be wrong , and the Victims ' Commissioner think it be wrong . do the Minister think it be wrong ? I have be proud and privileged to meet the Everards , as well as other family who be member of Justice for Victims , to discuss how we can improve the criminal justice system for victim by put they back at the heart of the system . as the shadow Minister will know , we debate this issue heavily in Committee during the Victims and Courts Bill , and the Department be consider it actively to ensure that the voice of victim be represent in court and at sentencing . I will happily update he on our discussion about how exactly we can do that and what be the good way of do it . I welcome that commitment , but the Minister fail to mention that we table an amendment in Committee which she vote against , along with a number of other Labour Members . give what she have just say , will she commit herself now to ensure that an amendment be table during future stage of the Bill to prevent restriction on what victim and their relative can say in their impact statement ? let I say yet again that , as the shadow Minister will know , we vote against that amendment because victim impact statement be currently class as evidence in a court of law , and they have to be quite specific . we be aware of the concern of victim ; what we need to do be put forward workable , realistic possibility for how we can well represent their voice in the courtroom . we be get on with action , whereas the Conservatives dither and delay for 14 year . we be make sure that victim be represent in our criminal justice system . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I have a constituent who be a survivor of violent economic abuse , which have involve her abuser occupy one of her property without consent and vandalise it with mound of human excrement , render it unrentable at huge financial cost . the photograph be disgusting . delay in civil court proceeding have force my constituent to live with this for nearly three year . what step can the Government take both to support survivor who be live in this kind of hell and to speed up the legal proceeding that be currently prevent my constituent from be free once again ? will the hon . Gentleman please pass on my sincere thought to his constituent ? that be a horrific situation that no one should have to face . the hon . member will be aware of our manifesto commitment to look at co - habit couple ' right to ensure that victim , survivor and every party have equal access to these right . we be currently develop that policy work , as well as work across Government with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , the Treasury and DWP to look at how we can tackle all element of violence against woman and girl , include economic abuse , and I will happily update he on those discussion in due course . Grooming Gangs : Criminal Justice System what step her Department be take to support victim of groom gang through the court system . the sexual exploitation and rape of child by groom gang be one of the dark moment in this country ' s recent history . in the Crime and Policing Bill , we have make groom a statutory aggravate factor in sentencing for child sexual offence , and we have accept all of Baroness Casey ' s recommendation , include change the criminal law to ensure that adult who penetrate child under 16 be charge with rape . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for her response . thousand of child across the UK have be abuse by groom gang , yet charity still warn of victim blame by police and those in authority . we should be clear that the problem be not child ; it be those who prey on they . what be the Government do to ensure that victim be properly support and receive the justice they deserve ? the hon . Gentleman raise an incredibly important point that be pick up by the Casey report , all the recommendation of which the Government have accept , and I have no doubt that the national inquiry will be very cognisant of the issue that he raise . through the Criminal Justice Board , we will ensure that every part of the criminal justice system , from police right through to prison , probation and court , be aware of how we deal with victim : with fairness and justice . I call the shadow Minister . Sohail Zaffer rape a child . he receive 42 month . Manzoor Akhtar rape a child . he be sentence to four and a half year . Ramin Bari be convict of four rape . he get just nine year — just two year per rape . these man be sentence , but not punish . do the Justice Secretary think these sentence represent justice ? if she do not , like most people in this country , will she change the law so that rape gang perpetrator receive full life sentence ? the right hon . Gentleman will know that I can not and will not comment on individual sentence . I urge he to live up to the responsibility of be the shadow Lord Chancellor , because comment in the way that he regularly do on individual sentencing decision , strip of context and without all the information , be wrong . those be independent decision make by the independent judiciary in individual case . Prison Capacity what step she be take to increase prison capacity . we take immediate action to prevent the collapse of our prison system . the last Government add just 500 place to our prison estate over 14 year , whereas the previous Labour Government add around 28 , 000 place over 13 year . we intend to match the ambition of the last Labour Government , not the last Conservative Government , which be why we be commit to build 14 , 000 new prison place . by the end of this Parliament , we will have more people in prison than at any time in our history . every week bring new concern about crime in Bournemouth , and I will pick up this issue with the police and crime commissioner for my area in my Boscombe office on Friday . increase prison space keep dangerous people away from the public , and punish serious crime . increase prison space stop reoffende , and I thank Tim from Athelstan Road for his creative suggestion to achieve that , which I have forward to the relevant Minister . can the Minister outline the step that he be take to stop reoffende , especially where it apply to violent crime ? my hon . friend be right . public protection be our no . 1 priority , but we be also tackle reoffende , with proper programme in place in prison . we also need to support people when they come out of prison , and probation be part of that solution . in the light of the pressure on prison place , what assessment have the Minister make of the Government ' s early release scheme , under which nearly a quarter of those release reoffende again within just one year ? do he believe that the criterion use to determine eligibility be fit for purpose , and will he share they with the House ? due to the circumstance that this Government find when we come into office , we have no option but to introduce a temporary change to the law to allow prisoner serve an eligible standard determinate sentence to be release on licence . this have many more constraint to it than the early release scheme operate by the previous Government , which be rush out just before the election . actually , the datum have not yet be publish , so the right hon . Gentleman will have to wait for that . Probation Officers what step she be take to support probation officer . I again , Mr Speaker . we be determined to back our hard - work probation staff by invest up to £ 700 million , which be a 45 % increase in funding . we have already exceed this year ' s target by recruit over 1 , 000 trainee . we will recruit another 1 , 300 more probation officer in 2025 - 26 . an effective Probation Service be crucial for the rehabilitation and resettlement of prisoner to reduce reoffende . although I welcome the number of new probation officer to be recruit , Napo report that probation workload be unmanageable , staff turnover and sickness be high , and probation officer be often manage case belong to colleague , when evidence suggest that prisoner on licence be less likely to be recall if they have have the same supervising officer from the day of their release . can the Minister please outline the step be take to address these issue , so that morale be improve and probation officer have sufficient time for and attention to give to individual case ? my hon . friend be right that we need to ensure that prison officer have the time to do the job they come in to do , which be to spend time with offender and turn their life around . in addition , we have invest an initial £ 8 million in technology and launch a new programme to develop a sustainable work process that will allow probation staff to focus on the work they join the service to deliver . I thank the Minister very much for that answer . I have the opportunity a few month ago to visit the probation office in Newtownards to get an idea of what it do . I be very impressed , first , by the quality of the staff ; secondly , by the fact that they be involve in restorative justice issue relate to perpetrator and victim ; and , thirdly , by the importance they give to ensure that young people have opportunity . can the Minister tell we , from his discussion with the Probation Board for Northern Ireland , what have be do to ensure that what happen here also happen back home and that what happen back home also happen here ? I thank the hon . member for his question . as he know , we have regular discussion in the five nation group to ensure that good practice be share , issue be address together and we learn from each other . Prison Security what step she be take to improve prison security . this year , we be invest over £ 40 million in physical security across 34 prison , which include anti - drone measure to prevent drug and other illicit item from enter prison . start this month , we will trial the use of taser by specialist staff , and we be increase tactical staffing resource to strengthen prison security . there have be a spate of attack at Swinfen Hall Prison , which hold young offender , in my constituency . drug , phone and weapon be often drop in by drone . the family of prisoner be concern for their safety , and prison officer be at risk . what step be the Government take to prevent drone and to tackle the high level of violence in our prison ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . under the last government , between 2019 and 2023 , drone sighting around prison increase by over 770 % . as I have say , we be invest £ 40 million in bolster security measure in our prison , and we be currently trialle new anti - drone netting on the long - term , high - security estate to tackle drone incursion . prison staff be face record level of violence and work in such a toxic environment that , accord to the Rademaker review , worker be too afraid to raise complaint about bullying and harassment . do the Lord Chancellor therefore welcome today ' s relaunch of the update " safe inside " prison charter by the Joint Unions in Prisons Alliance , a coalition of 10 trade union represent the vast majority of prison staff ? if so , will she join we this evening to hear more about safe system of work in prison ? I believe the Prisons Minister may well be attend the event that the right hon . Member mention . I will happily pick that up in my regular conversation with trade union official . she be right to highlight the scale of violence across our prison system . we be already take measure , and I hope that the combination of sentence reform and investment in our prison will bring down the level of violence we be currently see . Court Backlog and Pre - trial Waiting Times what step she be take to tackle the backlog in the court . what step she be take to reduce pre - trial waiting time . this Government inherit a record and rise court backlog from the previous Tory Government across every jurisdiction . whether for a victim of crime , a parent , a business or an employee , backlog mean wait year for their day in court . we have take swift action to invest in our court , and court in every jurisdiction be sit at or close to maximum judicial capacity . we have announce record investment this year of £ 2 . 5 billion across all court and tribunal , which will make a real difference to clear up the Tories ' mess . in my constituency of Horsham , I have be ask to support a woman leave in limbo regard the trial of her ex - partner on a domestic abuse charge . when she be finally give a date , the trial be pull as a result of an administrative error as she sit wait in the courtroom . a new date be set for a whole year later . she suffer emotional distress and have to take time off work , which cost she £ 500 . she instal CCTV at her own expense and endure month of further intimidation . will the Minister undertake to set clear guideline about maximum waiting time for trial to solve the problem now and in the future ? I be terribly sorry to hear about the case of the hon . member ' s constituent , which exemplify exactly why we be so determined to grip the backlog in our Crown court . that be also why we have ask Sir Brian Leveson to recommend a once - in - a - generation reform to deliver swifter justice for victim such as the hon . member ' s constituent . ultimately , get the backlog down so that we can look she in the eye and say , " we can deliver swifter justice , " will make the real difference . I work closely with fantastic local business across Leeds North West , and I know they already have a lot to contend with , so I be concerned to see a pattern of crime on our high street , from burglary to other form of vandalism , that leave owner in Horsforth and Adel feel unsafe . at the same time , like most hon . member , I be very aware that the Government have inherit a significant backlog that undermine the sense that justice will be serve . how do the Minister plan to address that so the individual responsible be deal with and small business owner know that we be on their side ? my hon . friend raise an important point . the impact of the Crown court backlog be be feel by domestic abuse victim and small business , so we have a real job to do to restore confidence in our criminal justice system . that be why we grip the crisis by put in place an extra 110 , 000 Crown court sitting day — a record number . we understand , however , that we will need fundamental reform to address the backlog , and that be what we have ask Sir Brian Leveson to look at . Knife Crime offender : rehabilitation what step her Department be take to support the rehabilitation of people convict of knife crime offence . halve knife crime be a moral mission for the Government . every young person catch with a knife be refer to a youth offend team , and Turnaround be very successful in divert youngster on the cusp of crime away from offend . alongside that , the Government will roll out prevention partnership and Young Futures hub . I welcome the Minister ' s answer . Knife crime ruin life and devastate community ; rightly , those responsible must be hold accountable . if we be serious about prevent reoffende , however , we also need structured , credible rehabilitation , the focus of which must be on prevention and diversionary activity . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on boxing , I have see how grassroot boxing club offer something different — structure , community and hope — that be of particular benefit to young people . I ask the Minister to meet I to discuss how boxing can be a key part of successfully rehabilitate offender . my hon . friend be right to point to the range of diversion that can help the rehabilitation of young offender , include box club . I be happy to meet he . legal aid Agency : Digital Services what step her Department be take to restore the legal aid Agency ' s digital service . as the House will be aware , the Legal aid Agency suffer a criminal cyber - attack across its system . it have work tirelessly to ensure that those who rely on legal aid have not see that legal aid stop and that provider be not leave out of pocket . in short , it have keep the show on the road with a series of emergency contingency measure . let we be in no doubt , however , that it suffer that attack because its IT system have be leave in a fragile state by the lack of investment from the Conservatives . we will learn from the crisis and build back well with additional investment . two of my local firm — MJC Law and Nottingham Law Centre — have contact I about this issue . MJC Law say : " this have leave legal aid law firm , often small business , to decide whether to take on the risk of case and hope they will be approve and pay retrospectively " . cash flow could become a genuinely serious issue for such firm , so what step be be take to support they ? for how long do the Minister envisage firm deal with this situation ? finally , on GDPR notice , be it sufficient that the LAA have simply provide a notice on its webpage ? I pay tribute to the legal aid provider across the country who have keep go through this difficult time and who do vital work in the sector . as part of the package of contingency business measure , we have delegate more decision making to provider and we have commit to backdate criminal legal aid application . I must assure the House that we will turn the system back on only when we can be sure that they be secure and we can guarantee that we be protect people ' s datum . Parole Board decision : Serious Offenders what step she be take to ensure she can refer Parole Board decision in case of serious offender to the High Court . work to implement the power to refer case to the High Court be well advanced , and we expect to be able to fully update the House later this year . the Secretary of State be decline to take the power to refer to the High Court on unduly lenient Parole Board decision in case of manslaughter , like that of Robert Brown , who kill the good friend of my constituent , Hetti Barkworth - Nanton . will the Minister meet I to discuss this decision and explore how we can ensure that the Secretary of State have all the power necessary to ensure that violent killer like Brown be not release early ? that be a horrific case . my thought remain with Joanna ' s family and friend , specifically Diana Parkes and Hetti Barkworth - Nanton , who I meet last year , and who the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , meet this week . the previous Parliament carefully scrutinise the referral power and the offence that should be in scope . I be very happy to meet the hon . gentleman on this matter . with the case of one of the killer of James Bulger , Jon Venables , come to the Parole Board again , the need for the voice of victim ' family to be hear in the justice system be come right to the fore . my constituent Sue , who be in the Gallery today , be be support by the James Bulger foundation . her son die needlessly ; he be not support by the people with he , who could have offer he aid and get he medical help . will the Minister meet I and Sue to hear the tragic detail of this case and discuss the option for change the law to ensure that victim ' family be properly represent in the justice system ? my hon . friend draw attention to another horrific case . I think the good way of proceeding be to take up his offer of a meeting . deport Foreign Offenders : Prison Capacity if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of deport all foreign criminal on prison capacity . removal under this Government have be high over the past 12 month than under the Conservatives . we be go far by expand the early removal scheme so that prisoner with no right to be in this country will be deport and ban from ever return to the UK after serve 30 % of their custodial sentence . UK prison be at full capacity and 12 % of prison place be occupy by foreign national . will the Secretary of State look to deport all foreign national who commit offence in our country to free up that space ? as I say , we have already deport more people in the first year of this Government than be the case under the previous Government , so we be go fast on foreign national offender removal from our prison estate . the legal change we be make will bring more offender into scope early in their sentence , make they eligible for deportation . will the Lord Chancellor update the House on the conversation she have with international partner on the european convention on human right during her recent visit to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg ? I have very positive discussion with partner country across Europe when I visit Strasbourg , where I make a speech about how the european convention on human right be a live instrument and therefore must keep up with the time . that be a positive conversation , and one that this Government will be continue in the come month . Prison Education what step she be take to improve the quality of prison education . ensure that prisoner have access to education be essential for rehabilitation in order to ensure that prison produce well citizen , not well criminal . new prison education service contract will be launch later this year , which aim to strengthen the quality of delivery and provide consistent assessment of prisoner . last week , I hold a roundtable bring together expert to drive improvement and strengthen current education provision in young offender institution . I thank my hon . friend for his response . however , 82 % of prison and young offender institution have be rate as " require improvement " or " inadequate " by Ofsted on education , skill and work provision . despite that , the prison education service still outsource the same poorly perform contract to poorly perform provider , and prison educator be pay less than educator in further education setting , cause a crisis in recruitment and retention , accord to the Education Committee . when we will see the great insourcing in a generation , and will the Minister consider insource prison education with proper pay , term and condition for prison educator ? all option be on the table . his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service introduce a head of education , skill and work into every prison to ensure that , across the estate , a senior member of prison staff be responsible for improve the quality of education provision . my hon . friend be right to draw attention to Ofsted report , but there have be an increase in the overall number of " good " rating achieve through the inspection . this be work in progress . we need to do well , as she say , and that be what we be determined to do . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . it be a little over a year since this Government be elect , and ever since I have be clear up the mess create by the previous Government , who leave our prison day from collapse . I be ensure that we can never run out of space again . we have already open around 2 , 500 new prison place , with the aim of create 14 , 000 by 2031 . we have accept most of David Gauke ' s sentencing review , and I will increase funding for the Probation Service by up to £ 700 million . in our court , we be reverse 14 year of under - investment that leave we with a record and rise court backlog . I have fund a record number of Crown court sitting day — 4 , 000 high than the Conservatives manage — and Sir Brian Leveson will soon propose once - in - a - generation reform . make no mistake : unlike those on the Conservative Benches , I will do what it take to bring down the backlog and deliver swifter justice for victim . under the SNP , the number of suspect criminal in Scotland be let off with a slap on the wrist have increase by 28 % in a year , accord to the late datum . now the Labour Government here seem to want to copy the SNP . why will the Labour Government not put victim first , instead of do what they be do now — let dangerous criminal off with short and weak sentence ? what absolute nonsense . let I tell the House the definition of soft justice : it be what the Tory party do , build only 500 prison place in 14 year in office . that be why we be in this mess and that be the mess that I be clean up . last month , a devastating report by woman ' s aid reveal that a total of 67 child have be kill over a 30 - year period by a know domestically abusive parent , in circumstance relate to the court ' use of the principle of the presumption of contact . two of those child , Jack and Paul Sykes , be the son of my formidable constituent , Claire Throssell . all these death be preventable . will the Minister update the House on the progress of the Government ' s review of the presumption of contact ? the killing of Jack and Paul be horrendous crime and I would like to pay tribute to my hon . friend and to her constituent , Claire , for their tireless campaign on these issue . I be sure that she would agree that the guide principle for any reform must be child ' s welfare . that be why we have request a review of the presumption of contact . we will be publish finding and next step very shortly . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in the year since Labour take office , can the Justice Secretary tell we how many individual have be prosecute for smuggle people in on small boat ? I do not have those figure directly to hand , but I be sure that if they be available , I can write to he with the detail . I ask the Justice Secretary a very simple question about one of the big challenge face our country right now , and the whole House can see that she do not have a clue . this be about not just the pathetically low level of prosecution under her watch , but the fact that she have wave through guideline to shorten sentence for immigration offence . under the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 , the most serious offence for facilitation carry a life sentence , but she be water that down to between 10 and 16 year . instead of smash the gang , she be slash the sentence . why will she not do something for once and stop this ? honestly , the shadow Justice Secretary really ought to pay more attention to his day job — rather than to the job he be look for , which the conservative party might give he . first , have he pay any attention , he would know that prosecution do not fall to the Ministry of Justice ; they be deal with independently through the Crown Prosecution Service . we will of course publish the statistic when we get they , and I will happily write to he with the detail . we be make sure that , across Government , we be take all the action necessary to protect our border . he be misrepresent what the immigration guideline do ; I have pick he up on that before . I will happily write to he again , but maybe he could actually read they and learn something . PeoplePlus have just win the contract for prison education in Scotland and England . PeoplePlus be sell to Talent International , a subsidiary of swipejobs , in which US and Australian - base venture capital firm Clearsign Capital have a 40 % stake , accord to the University and College Union . can the Minister explain why venture capitalist be make money out of educate british prisoner ? my hon . Friend ask a good question . in England , prison education contract be award follow a rigorous commercial process that award provider on merit . I understand that PeoplePlus have be award education contract for scottish prison , but that would be a matter for the Scottish Government . I wish to raise the case of my constituent whose 89 - year - old father be subject to serious abuse through a lasting power of attorney . it take two year and significant legal cost to get the power of attorney remove through the Court of Protection . the father tragically die , homeless and penniless . do the Minister believe that the current LPA protection be sufficient to prevent such abuse , and will the Government consider an urgent review and reform of the system ? I be very sorry to hear about the case of the hon . member ' s constituent . we need to put this into some context . as of March 2024 , over 8 million lasting power of attorney be register in England and Wales . they be a really useful instrument . although concern about misuse do exist , the sort of abuse that the hon . member highlight be , in context , rare . the Office of the Public Guardian investigate around 2 , 500 case last year . we be look to strengthen safeguard and add more identify check as part of a modernised service . last power of attorney be a really important tool , and we do not want to throw the baby out with the bathwater . during my recent visit to Pennine Domestic Abuse Partnership in Huddersfield I hear about how long delay between CPS charge and trial date leave abuse victim in limbo . the delay not only retraumatise victim but put a huge strain on support service that provide long - term care , so I join colleague in ask the Government to reduce the delay as soon as possible so that victim of domestic abuse can access justice swiftly . my hon . friend outline exactly why we have ask Sir Brian Leveson to conduct a review into the criminal court ; the ambition be to reduce the length of time victim have to wait for justice . we be expect the recommendation of that review shortly . we be support victim by fund key support service to make sure that victim continue to be engage with our criminal justice system , and we be expand the use of specialist domestic abuse court , where train staff can support victim directly . I recently meet Ruby Hamill — a young activist who nearly die in a government - run prison when her severe eat disorder be ignore . Ruby be not a constituent ; she want to talk to I because I chair the eat disorder all - party parliamentary group . will the Minister meet I and Ruby ' s family to ensure that there be eat disorder guideline in all prison , and that the guideline be appropriate and implement across all prison healthcare provider ? I be sorry to hear of the case that the hon . Member outline , and I would be very happy to meet she to explore the issue far . in a recent report , the Victims Commissioner say that she fear that the delay in victim get justice " will drive some victim to give up on seek justice altogether — a second injustice compound the first . " this be completely unacceptable , and at Ipswich Crown court the backlog of open case have more than double since 2016 . what be minister do to reverse the harm inflict by the Conservatives not only on the justice system itself but on victim ' confidence that justice will be serve at all ? my hon . friend be right that we be see an increase in the number of victim pull out of the process because they no long have confidence in it because it be take so long . we have fund an additional 4 , 000 sitting day this year and have ask Sir Brian Leveson to recommend once - in - a - generation reform precisely so that we can deliver swifter justice for victim . the hon . member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) raise the issue of the presumption of contact . I have a constituency case where one parent have abuse their child and the other parent have have to pay for the supervision of those child . the presumption of contact be not work in case where domestic abuse have happen , so I echo the call from the hon . member for Penistone and Stocksbridge for an urgent review of it . the hon . Member will know that a staggering 60 % of case that go through our family court involve some form of domestic abuse or allegation thereof . that be why consideration of the operation of the presumption of contact and wide consideration of domestic abuse allegation in our family court be so important . it be why official and Ministers be take the process really seriously . derbyshire Victim Services do really important work support victim , include those who have experience sexual assault and domestic violence , but give the court backlog inherit from the Conservative Government , the service have tell I that many of the victim be in need of support for long , with many have complex need that public service can struggle to meet . what step be the Department take to help support service to provide support to victim with complex need that be exacerbate when justice be delay ? I place on record my thank to all the brilliant victim support service that do tremendous work in incredibly difficult circumstance to ensure that victim get the support they need to stay engaged with the criminal justice system . we have protect dedicated Ministry of Justice spend on victim of violence against woman and girl by maintain the 2024 - 25 funding level , ringfence sexual violence and domestic abuse support for this year , and commission a 24 / 7 rape and sexual abuse support line , provide victim and survivor with access to vital help and information whenever they need it . we be carefully consider how good to allocate the current budget from the spending review to look specifically at VAWG alongside other departmental priority . my constituent Andy from Offerton often play a caring role for his adult son , as his son have serious mental ill health . during his son ' s recent stay in prison , Andy struggle to get quality information from the prison about his son ' s health situation and living condition . what more will the Government do to ensure that parent carer such as Andy get the information they need and deserve during a child ' s stay in prison ? the hon . Lady be right : it be important that parent carer get the information they need that help with rehabilitation and get thing to the right place . if she want to write to I about that particular case , I will look into it and write back to she . Survive be a York - base charity provide specialist service and trauma - specific intervention to survivor of sexual violence and abuse . however , it have have to close its waiting list because it do not have the capacity to meet the demand . will the Minister look at provide additional funding , so that we can get those vital service to survivor and victim now and they do not have to wait ? my hon . friend have contact I and write to I on this issue . she will know that we in the Department be look at the spending allocation follow the spending review . however , we have protect and ringfence special support for sexual violence victim , because we know that there be huge demand come through the system and we need to keep those victim engage in the criminal justice system to ensure they get their day in court and justice be serve . I read a recent BBC article about an asylum seeker who have violently rape a teenage girl . he have be convict and give a sentence of nine year in prison , follow by three year on licence , after which he will need to be deport . I be concerned that such individual , during their period on licence , pose a risk to british woman and girl . do the Lord Chancellor agree , and will she ensure that people go straight from prison to deportation where appropriate ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that important point . it be why we be reduce the threshold for the early removal scheme and look carefully with the Home Office at the Gauke review ' s recommendation of effectively sentence to deportation , to deal with the very type of case that she have raise . I welcome the Government ' s effort to reform sentencing follow the sentencing review . I be confident that those step will end the chaos leave behind by the previous Government . I be particularly interested in rehabilitation as a priority in sentencing . a troubling statistic remain : study have show that 30 % of prisoner in the UK be diagnose as dyslexic , and there be probably many more who be undiagnosed , mean that the number be much high . will the Minister tell I what step be be take to support dyslexic people in prison and to prevent reoffende follow release ? my hon . friend be right to emphasise the importance of rehabilitation in the panoply of thing that we do in the criminal justice system . she be also right to highlight the number of prisoner and people in the criminal justice system who have dyslexia , which be one of the many neurodiverse condition in the prison service . every prison have a neurodiversity officer who co - ordinates activity to address that in each prison , but if she want to write to I about the issue , I would be happy to respond in more detail . the Secretary of State will be aware of the deeply troubling revelation over the weekend of the so - call Halal bride website . do she agree that such practice have absolutely no place in Britain ? the regulation of website and content fall either within Home Office responsibility for criminal law or with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , and I will happily pick up with they the detail around the regulatory issue that be raise by that case . when I visit HMP Onley , the near prison to my constituency , I have the great privilege to be give a tour by the governor , Mark Allen and to see the excellent work of the staff . I wonder whether the Secretary of State would comment on the importance of offering by organisation and company such as Greene King which provide caf é s and restaurant so that prisoner can be rehabilitate while they be in prison . Greene King do outstanding work , as do other organisation in our prison service . they be important partner in deliver well justice . the Lord Chancellor rightly reject murderer Alan Jermey ' s Parole Board request for open condition , for which his daughter and I be extremely grateful . I understand that Mr Jermey be now legally challenge the decision , so will the Lord Chancellor revisit my request for a meeting with she about this issue ? the hon . Member will know that , with a judicial challenge , there will be some constraint as to what I can say publicly , and indeed even privately in a meeting . I will take advice to ensure that nothing compromise the legal process . the Sentencing Guidelines ( Pre - sentence Reports ) Act 2025 have now receive Royal Assent and I congratulate the Lord Chancellor on her swift action , but it would never have be necessary if sentence guideline be not the preserve of an unelected , undemocratic quango in the form of the Sentencing Council . do she agree that we need a democratic lock , or even a vote in this place , to approve new sentencing guideline ? I have say many time at this Dispatch Box that that whole episode reveal a democratic deficit . I be review the role and power and we will come forward with legislative change in due course . in the light of the tragic loss of young mother Sarah Montgomery , who be seven month pregnant , due to violence , which have leave two young girl without a mother and impact the entire community of Donaghadee in my constituency , do the Government agree that early intervention , particularly through early education , be essential ? furthermore , can we look at intensify our effort to prevent domestic violence against woman and young girl and at increase sentence to deter that type of crime ? I thank the hon . member for raise this case , which will have hit all of we incredibly hard . it be horrific and just go to show that violence against woman and girl be at epidemic level in every corner of the United Kingdom , not just in England and Wales . I be due to meet my counterpart across the devolved nation shortly to figure out exactly how we can well join up to tackle this issue as a whole , because it will take a societal response . if the hon . Member want to meet I to discuss this far , I would be happy to do so . the Minister will be aware that the recent pathfinder family court pilot have be see as largely successful . this be an opportunity to put child at the centre of these case and to end the presumption of contact which put partner and child of abuser at risk . will she please advise I as to the next step in this process ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question and I be grateful to he for raise the pathfinder court . these pilot be prove incredibly successful . they front - load a lot of the evidence gathering , they put the safety of child and family arrangement right at their heart , and they be prove a really successful model , which be why we plan to roll they out far . as part of that , as he have hear , we will be publish our response to the presumption review very shortly . the backlog of case in the Isle of Wight coroner service be the bad in the country , cause pain and distress to too many family , some of whom be wait 800 day to find out what be happen to their love one . will the Minister offer any comment or support to those family , and will she agree to meet I to discuss how we deal with the problem of the Isle of Wight coroner ? I thank the hon . member for his engagement on this issue . he have write to I and we have have quite productive conversation about it . I recently meet the chief coroner to discuss the specific issue on the Isle of Wight , because we know that the delay be cause untold turmoil to family in an already awful , traumatic process . I will happily meet the hon . member to discuss a way forward , but I be reassure by the action be take by the chief coroner to address the issue in the Isle of Wight directly . a constituent of mine who recently flee France because of domestic violence and abuse , after be a habitual resident for just 21 day , have be order to return to France next week under protective measure . what more can the Government do to protect woman flee domestic violence in relation to the Hague convention and the Child Abduction Act 1984 ? the hon . Member will know that I can not comment on specific case , but if he want to write to I , I will happily look at that . I recently have productive conversation about the Hague convention and other , and we will happily develop those conversation far . may I associate myself with your remark , Mr Speaker , at the outset of these proceeding about the passing of Lord Tebbit ? Lord Tebbit be a great friend of Northern Ireland , particularly of the many fellow victim of IRA terrorism . may I return the Lord Chancellor to the subject of the backlog in our Crown court ? in Northern Ireland , we have the bad of all record ; it take an average of 551 day to conclude a Crown court case . murder trial have be stall since last September with no new start date . we have a Minister of Justice locally who talk the talk but never walk the walk , and particularly do not walk the walk in settle the ongoing remuneration issue that be hold thing up . would the Lord Chancellor bring some pressure to bear on the local Justice Minister to sort this matter out ? the hon . and learn Member will know that for devolved matter it would of course be deeply inappropriate for I to try to influence or put pressure on the Minister of Justice in Northern Ireland . on a cross - UK basis , we regularly meet our fellow Justice Ministers in the devolved administration , and I will happily pick up those conversation in a constructive way . Government Resilience Action Plan with permission , Mr Speaker , I will update the House on the Government ' s resilience action plan . we be live through a period of profound change : upheaval in the international order , conflict rage in the middle east , a war be wage on the continent of Europe and old norm overturn on what feel like a daily basis . against that backdrop , the Government ' s first duty of keep the public safe become all the more important . resilience be a measure of deep strength and , at the same time , a measure of insurance . by deep strength , I mean fundamental such as a good NHS , a strong spirit of community , a secure energy system and good flood defence . all those thing increase our national resilience . we see the vulnerability expose by the covid pandemic in the NHS and in the different impact it have on different worker , ethnic minority and member of the community . resilience have to be for all , not just for some . by insurance , I mean the emergency system , scientific capability , scale - up capability and other measure we would need in a crisis . everyone know they need insurance , but we also know that no one spend their whole income on it . that be true for a country , too . by definition , preparation for the bad have to sit alongside the week - to - week provision of the essential service that government run . there be no perfectly correct answer to the balance between those two thing . what be certain be that the Government have to think through the scenario and try to ensure that the country be as well prepared as possible . today we set out how we will do that with the publication of our resilience action plan , a chronic risk analysis and an update on the UK biological security strategy . no Government can stop every risk from materialise . every member of this House understand that we live in a world where we be susceptible to a much wide range of risk than we be even a decade ago : cyber - attack on household name , trade measure that can trigger fluctuation in the price of food or household good , power outage , the possibility of another pandemic — these risk be real and be all different . the answer to those share challenge lie in make all part of society well prepare : our economy , our defence , our health system , our infrastructure , our border , our industrial base and our energy security . much of it come down to the unglamorous work of deliver improve public service . that be what we might call " deep resilience " — an NHS that be strong enough to cope , an energy system that do not leave we as expose to the spike in the price of oil see in the aftermath of Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , and a science base that can be call into action quickly . it depend on the whole of society — business ; the public sector ; local , national and devolved government ; civil society ; local resilience forum ; and every member of this House — all share in the burden and pull in the same direction . the action plan set we up to do that with a focus on three area : first , assess on a continuous basis how resilient the UK be , so that we can effectively target intervention and resource when and where they be need ; secondly , enable the whole of society to take action to increase its resilience , which will rely on we change the culture around resilience by make it part of our everyday life in practical and simple way — be it the owner of a business introduce new cyber - defence , or a more informed public that know what to do in order to prepare for different emergency — and thirdly , improve core public sector resilience . we have thousand of frontline public sector worker who be integral to our resilience at a local and national level , from the employee who keep the energy grid run to local emergency responder . I pay tribute to they all . the action plan bring together a range of policy . we have already set out our proposal to increase defence spending . we be earmark £ 4 . 2 billion of funding for new flood defence and £ 370 million to secure the UK ' s telecom network , and open a new resilience academy in North Yorkshire that will train 4 , 000 people every year from the private and public sector . later this year , we will have the large ever national pandemic exercise that will test the UK ' s readiness for future pandemic . we be also develop a risk vulnerability map for public servant , apply one of the principal lesson of previous tragedy , which be that all too often it be the most vulnerable in our society who be hard hit in the event of an emergency . on top of each of those step , the action plan and our update on the biological security strategy set out new additional measure , include a nationwide test of the UK ' s emergency alert . that will take place at around 3 pm on Sunday 7 September 2025 , and it will involve a notification go out to 87 million mobile phone at once . it will be the second time we have use the test on a nationwide basis . it will last for around 10 second . the mobile phone alert system will play a critical role in make sure that we be ready for all kind of future emergency . in the run - up to the test , we will work with stakeholder , include domestic violence charity , to ensure that the public have as much warning as possible . as well as the alert , we will be push ahead with activity to promote the Government ' s " prepare " website to help individual , household and community understand how they can be ready for a range of different emergency . we continue to support local resilience forum in England because they be essential in plan for , and respond to , incident whenever they occur . our biological security strategy include £ 15 million from the integrated security fund to help address capability gap across Government and beyond . that be in addition to the £ 1 billion of investment that we unveil a fortnight ago for a new network of national biosecurity centre to strengthen our defence against biological incident , accident and attack . the defence and security accelerator also include £ 1 million for project with university such as Queens University Belfast and Cardiff University . my colleague the Health Secretary will publish a pandemic preparedness framework explain how the Government be bring together the vital scientific research need to prepare for any future pandemic . I be also able to announce that soon the National Situation Centre and the devolve government will sign a memorandum of understanding to ensure that every part of the UK have the good datum to prepare and respond to crisis . those practical step will help the UK to meet the moment when an emergency come . resilience be not a button to press ; it come from the realisation that we need deep strength and the ability to scale up quickly when the situation require it . that be why the Government ' s investment plan , announce in the recent spending review , and the action outline in this plan be so important . we will not be resilient unless we invest for the future — a strong nhs , more and well housing , well energy security , utilise our deep research and development base — and , on top of that , have the capability to get go fast in an emergency . that be what this plan set out . I commend it to the House . I thank the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for advance sight of his statement and the associated documentation . I also thank he for the date on which the UK emergency alert will be test — he can only have choose it to notify the country that it be my birthday . I shall very much look forward to the alarm at 3 pm . I understand why the Government want to plan for resilience . it be understandable that the Government would want to come forward with a plan , face with the collapse economy , a collapse government , capital flight , spiral borrowing cost and the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s warn this morning that the Chancellor ' s late u - turn have leave Britain more vulnerable and less able to respond to future crisis . as the Minister say , the plan publish today build on the work of the previous Government on the roll - out of the national emergency alert system , the expansion of biosecurity preparedness , investment in flood protection and ensure well cross - departmental collaboration on resilience and emergency preparedness . the Minister say in his statement that he be look for an assessment " on a continuous basis " . the report set out the intention for data collection in this area , but it would be useful to hear by when that new datum framework will be available for we to scrutinise . he say that he wish to enable " the whole of society to take action " , but I rather wonder how he intend the whole of society to find out about this . the plan call on the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to provide guidance on develop cohesion strategy and to monitor tension . however , that do not sit easily with the fact that the Government be not currently tackle islamist extremism properly , that they drag their foot on a national inquiry into groom gang , and that they seem to be bring forward a highly controversial definition of Islamophobia . the Minister refer to " improve core public sector resilience " . that be certainly to be welcome , particularly on a day on which it have be announce that resident doctor have vote in favour of strike , which will result in industrial action in January . it be notable that the plan do not mention an ability to deal with widespread industrial action . be the Government planning for the eventuality of a general strike ? the Minister also mention the increase in defence spending , which we know be a form of smoke and mirror . we understand that the 1 . 5 % in addition to the hypothetical 3 . 5 % include thing such as tunnel and road , but we have not be provide with a baseline for what be currently spend in those area . how will we know when the Government have get to 1 . 5 % , or indeed whether they be at 1 . 5 % already ? as the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster set out , the previous Government take step to extend our capability and publish the first UK biological security strategy . I be interested that , in this strategy , there be a reference to explore the utility of waste water analysis , which have great success during the pandemic . do the Minister intend to bring that back on a wide scale ? it would be welcome if that be the case . I be pleased that the Government be press ahead with the biothreats radar , which be a conservative idea , but two year after our announcement there be still no go - live date . this could be a major asset to national resilience , but we need to know when it will come online . the CDL also tell the House that a fully operational radar will give we near real - time warning of emerge pathogen , but the World Health Organisation be still remind China to hand over its basic virological datum on covid - 19 . can he guarantee that the radar will allow the UK to independently verify when a state actor choose to withhold or delay information ? I be interested to read about Exercise Pegasus , the preparation for pandemic exercise . however , as the Minister will know , different type of pandemic behave in different way . which pandemic be test in Pegasus ? which be test in Alkarab ? it be important that the House understand what the Government be look at in that regard . I be grateful to the Opposition spokesman for his question . several thing have contribute to the need for a fresh look at all of this : the experience of covid , the change geopolitical situation and the change threat picture . it be important to be both flexible and dynamic when consider resilience . let I turn to the shadow Minister ' s specific point . in advance of his birthday on 7 September , I wish he many happy return . he ask about data collection . that do not have a date ; it be a constant effort . the capacity to use datum in a well way today than perhaps we could have do in the past be an additional weapon in our armoury . in term of the whole of society find out about this , we have good , sensible advice on gov . uk / prepare . I encourage the public to look at it , and I hope that these preparation measure become normal for people in the future . the strength of community be very important in community resilience . the shadow Minister refer to strike in the NHS . we have give the NHS significant financial support and make a very fair pay offer . we very much value the work that doctor do . we hope that everyone in the NHS realise that we be a Government who support the NHS and want to work with the staff , and that industrial action will contribute nothing to that goal . the shadow Minister refer to biological security . we be make important investment into that , include the opening of the new Weybridge lab announce by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs a couple of week ago . Exercise Pegasus have not happen yet ; it will happen in the autumn . however , the shadow Minister be right on one thing : it be important not to fight the last war and assume that the next pandemic will behave in the same way as the last one . we have to be flexible in our response and ensure that we plan for different kind of scenario . I welcome this statement . the point about Exercise Pegasus remind I of Exercise Cygnus , the finding of which , I be sadden to say , the previous Government ignore in advance of what then become the pandemic we face . in recent week we have see attack on Marks & Spencer , the Co - op and other , and the fire at Heathrow , so this action plan be incredibly welcome . it state that the Government will develop a " consolidated , data - drive picture of our resilience baseline " to show how resilient the UK be at any moment , and a new cyber - resilience index that highlight the critical national infrastructure at great risk . will my right hon . friend give the Joint Committee on National Security Strategy , which I chair , access to those index , and may I suggest that we help he in develop they ? I be grateful to the Chair of the Joint Committee on National Security Strategy for his question . the National Cyber Security Centre have be work closely with Marks & Spencer and the other victim of recent cyber - attack . I look forward to appear before his Committee in a few day and work closely with it in the future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for advance sight of the statement . the world be now less stable and more insecure than at any time since the cold war . consequently , the Government must ensure that the british people and the United Kingdom be prepare in the event that our country or an overseas territory be threaten . the Liberal Democrats therefore welcome any measure to strengthen our resilience , especially to the cyber - security threat — a new and evolve threat against which we must be arm . while the liberal Democrats welcome the alert test , we call for a wide public information campaign to support resilience build across the UK , and to ensure that the public be properly ready for any potential future conflict or disaster . perhaps we could take lesson from our scandinavian neighbour , who be always work to address future threat and provide information to their citizen . information should be provide through a number of different mean , include leaflet and traditional broadcast . while we welcome the alert test , website and text alert will miss million of british people — those without phone , or without signal or battery — so we need to be ready on all front , and not just rely on single text alert . will the Government accept the Liberal Democrats ’ call to launch a national awareness campaign that draw on different mode of contact ? I welcome the talk about be more resilient to climate emergency . we have all see the horrify picture and upset story from the flood in Texas in recent day , and in this country , we have have one of the hot start to a summer in UK history ; it be vital that the Government be not catch unawares as the temperature rise . last week , I have a meeting in my constituency with Thames Water , which tell I that it be prepare drought mitigation measure . the regular supply of water to people ' s property , business and agricultural land be vital to livelihood and everyday life . what step be the Government take , and perhaps put in their new action plan , to ensure that any drought mitigation measure will not significantly impact the country in the come month ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s question , and join she in extend our sympathy to all those affect by the terrible event in Texas , where we see the power of nature , and see so many innocent life lose . I welcome the hon . Lady ' s comment on the alert test . the test will be publicise well in advance , include through work with domestic violence charity and other , so that everybody know what be come . information for the public be available on the gov . uk / prepare website . I agree with the hon . Lady that dialogue with the public on resilience be important . in many other country , that be absolutely normal . perhaps it have be a little less normal in this country , but we should change that . on risk in the immediate term , our excellent Cobra team in the Cabinet Office scan the horizon constantly for these thing , and it be always prepared and ready to go in any emergency . I thank the Minister for his statement . as a former Leicestershire county councillor , and as a health scrutineer before , during and after the pandemic , it be clear to I that local knowledge from our public health team and NHS service play an important role ; however , they know that they could have go far and do so much more . will he reassure I and my constituent that insight from local resilience forum and local expert will feed into planning and preparation for any future pandemic ? that be a good question . it be really important that we learn from the experience of the pandemic a few year ago , but we must not fall into the trap , as I say , of assume that the next emergency will be exactly the same . we have to be flexible in our response . the next emergency , and indeed the next pandemic , may be quite different in character from the one that we go through a few year ago . will the preparation take into account the last , disastrous consequence of lockdown , and the blither absurdity of face covering ? the preparation should take everything into account . I thank the Minister for the statement . I welcome the announcement that the Government will undertake a full national test of the emergency alert system in September . how will they ensure that rural area such as Church Eaton in my constituency , which be still wait for its phone mast to be activate , and Maer , which have have long - term difficulty with mobile reception , can receive the message ? my understanding be that the alert be dependent on 4 g access . my hon . friend be right . about 95 % of the population be cover by 4 g or 5 g access , and we be work constantly with the telecom company to improve that coverage . that be an ongoing effort . I welcome the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster ' s commitment that resilience must be for all , not just for some . the people of Shetland will hold he to those word . a few year ago , we suffer a catastrophic power outage for about seven day in winter storm , leave many of my constituent rely on copper wire phone line for their connection to the outside world . if that copper wire be withdraw without sufficient resilience be build into its replacement , the consequence for my constituent could be catastrophic . will he , through his office , engage with private sector organisation when they be make these strategic decision for we all ? the right hon . Gentleman represent perhaps the outermost part of the UK , and when he say that resilience should be for all , he be absolutely right . we have see the effect of long - term — day be " long - term " — power outage , include , in recent time , during storm É owyn . he make a good point about ensure resilience when system change and new technology come in , and we will certainly have a dialogue with telecom company about that . I thank the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for his statement . I be pleased to hear he reference the £ 370 million that the Government be invest to secure our telecommunications network . will that extend to our undersea network of cable , which face perpetual threat from the russian shadow fleet and other who be under a thin veil of plausible deniability ? if those network be disrupt , it will create chaos in the UK . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that important question . subsea cable be vital to the working of our economy and our defence , and those who wish we harm know that . it must be part of our national defence and our defence think to defend our international communication structure under the sea . the tier 1 exercise that CDL mention in response to Baroness Hallett ' s recommendation 6 in module 1 of her report on covid 19 be much to be welcome . however , he will be aware that part of the problem with Exercise Cygnus in 2016 be that the result be not make public at the time , and a lot of it remain classified . in the light of what have be say today , will he ensure that the Government ' s approach to this exercise be different , and that the result be make public quickly , so that they can be interrogate ? any national exercise of this kind will show up both strength and weakness . it be important that we communicate the learning from these exercise — both the strength and the weakness . the national risk register identify cyber - attack on critical national infrastructure as be of moderate likelihood but potentially catastrophic in impact . the National Audit Office have identify 58 key government system that have substantial cyber - resilience gap . what more can the Government do to plug those gap and ensure that our system be secure ? this be very important . there be no doubt that there be gap in cyber - defence , and there be an ongoing battle to get up to speed . many legacy system that have be in place for decade be difficult to replace , because new have be build on old . we be invest , but it be an ongoing effort to close the gap to stop those who would undermine the vital public service that rely on those system . one of the vulnerability that we see in the pandemic , after the invasion of Ukraine and even during the " beast from the east " winter storm be to food supply , but I do not hear the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster refer to food in his statement . Finland ' s national food supply can sustain the country for up to nine month ; it include strategic food reserve and grain stockpile . Germany advise citizen to keep a 10 - day stockpile of food and water . our reliance on import make our food supply vulnerable to global event such as pandemic and geopolitical instability . what action be the Government take to increase our food security ? the gov . uk / prepare website refer to have a supply of food and water in case of an emergency . we recently strike an agreement with the European Union that will remove a huge amount of the cost , bureaucracy and delay in ensure the free flow of food to and from the European Union . that be a good agreement for food security . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . as he rightly say , plan and respond to these kind of incident — whether it be the pandemic , storm , flooding or major water outage , like the one that happen in my constituency early this year — require people across all level of Government to work with community . how will the resilience plan launch today encourage close work between the devolve government and the UK Government ? my experience in the year since the general election be that on matter such as this , co - operation and joint working between the UK Government and the devolve government be good . I be pleased to say that this be an area where party politic be usually leave outside the door , and I think that be right . my hon . friend be absolutely right : when an emergency hit , we need good co - operation and dialogue with either the devolve government or local authority and local resilience forum , which I refer to in my statement . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster reference the considerable spending on flood defence over the next few year . he will be aware that the port of Immingham and much of the south bank of the Humber be severely affect by a tidal surge in 2013 . although much work have be do in recent year , can he give an assurance to business and resident that the south bank of the Humber will remain a priority for increase flood defence expenditure ? we have set aside some £ 4 billion for investment in flood defence . the detail of when and where that will be spend will be set out by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement . one of the most striking conclusion from the covid inquiry be that vulnerable people be the hard hit . what step be the Government take to ensure that support will reach vulnerable people much more quickly in the event of another incident ? that be a good and important question . as I say , resilience have to be for all , not just for some . this be take very seriously at the National Situation Centre . as datum get well — as , for example , energy company get a well map of their vulnerable customer — we be get to a well place when it come to know exactly where the Government should direct their effort when an emergency hit . it be a really important part of community solidarity that people of all income group know that the Government be there for they when an emergency hit . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster confirm that climate - relate emergency be a core part of this resilience strategy ? climate breakdown have the potential to threaten our core infrastructure and pose risk to our core support system , such as food and water , and the Climate Change Committee say that we be woefully ill - prepared for climate - relate change , so do he agree that the issue should be not a political football ? instead , it should be central to the Government ' s resilience plan for protect our citizen . I welcome that question . if the hon . Gentleman want a full list of what be on the risk register , it be a public document , so he can look at that . I refer several time in my statement to energy security . to get the energy security that we need , we will have to invest in a lot of new kit and equipment around the country . it be really important that we be allow to build that without people object to it at every turn . I have call for a responsibility revolution in which all business , organisation and individual play their part in the national interest . I have see that in my constituency on a visit to the National Gas station , which be a part of the critical infrastructure , and when talk to the Wolston and Brandon flood action group . will my right hon . friend set out what step the Government be take to provide well information to the public so that they can play their part in make our country more resilient ? I very much agree with my hon . friend . this issue involve the public understanding the risk , and I think we should make this conversation normal . that be why it be right that we do the second emergency test of the system . we have use it a few time in live scenario , in two storm that pose a real risk to life during last winter and in one or two more localise situation . the public be become more aware , but we will continue to make more information available so that people have a great awareness of these situation and what they might be able to do to increase their own resilience . it be vital that we exclude equipment from company cover by the national intelligence law of China from be use in surveillance equipment on sensitive Government site . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster update the House on the progress make in do that ? as the decision maker for the National Security and Investment Act 2021 , I deal with these issue every day . they involve the protection of our vital infrastructure and defence , the promotion of our economic wellbeing and ensure that this country be a good home for inward investment . climate change be very real for we all , so build a resilience strategy be absolutely crucial . in a city that flood so regularly , it be drought that we be most concerned about , not least with the hosepipe ban be introduce this Friday . will the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster ensure that mayoral authority introduce live with water plan so that we can balance flooding and drought and ensure that we have the correct supply of water throughout the year ? it be really important that we have more investment in our water infrastructure . this country have not build a reservoir for many , many year , but the new investment plan reach with the water company since the election will begin to change that picture and improve the deep strength of our energy and water infrastructure , which I refer to in my statement . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster speak about the cyber - attack on household name . the Business and Trade Committee hear evidence this morning from the chair of Marks & Spencer , who say that more of a two - way dialogue be need with UK official in which they be effectively give the offer to join and be see as one of the team when these attack occur . can the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster confirm how the action plan he have announce today will help with those kind of request from business ? I have have a number of conversation with representative of Marks & Spencer since the attack a few month ago , and I be appear before the Business and Trade Sub - Committee tomorrow to discuss economic security . it be really important not just that the company learn from the attack , but that the Government constantly learn from attack on vital system in much - love and cherish british company such as M & S . during the covid pandemic , I be a trade union official represent 200 , 000 local government worker across Scotland . I see at first hand their extraordinary dedication to our public service , but I also see when they be let down by a lack of co - operation and co - ordination between the UK Government and the Scottish Government . will my right hon . friend outline how the resilience action plan will encourage great co - operation between government across our devolved nation ? when there be an emergency , there should be no place for performative politic from anyone . my experience over the past year have be that co - operation on these issue have be good . this be an arena in which we should be less partisan — perhaps that should be the case in other part of our national life too — because in the end , the public who send we to this place want to know that help be there , no matter the colour or level of Government . that should be the spirit in which we approach emergency preparedness and resilience . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , as well as the fact that there will be more information , not just mobile phone alert , because those alert do not work evenly , even in urban area such as my constituency — there be often some delay with some phone . one of the question that have arise from the tragedy in Texas be whether mobile phone alert be enough . People may not be near a phone , or they may be in a remote area , so have the Government give any thought to more old - fashioned way — perhaps siren , or some other way — of alert the public when there be an emergency ? the mobile phone alert system be a significant addition to our armoury as the coverage get well . not everyone use mobile phone , but a very high percentage of the population do . however , the hon . Lady be absolutely right that other medium can be use , and obviously we keep these thing under constant consideration . the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster have announce the opening of a dedicated resilience academy in North Yorkshire , which will train 4 , 000 private and public sector people per year . can he give I an update on when that academy will be in place , and a surety that it will cover the entirety of the United Kingdom ? he speak early about the involvement of the UK Government with devolved region , so it be critical their representative be cover by that academy as well . there have be a facility in North Yorkshire for some time , but I open it as the UK Resilience Academy a few month ago . it be in place , and the plan be to train 4 , 000 people every year , include first responder and sometimes people from the private sector . I hope that that training benefit people from right across the UK . the first line of defence in national resilience be we , the citizenry . the Health Secretary and the Education Secretary write recently lament the absence of much - need grit among many of our young people . now that that risk have be identify at the high level of Government , do it appear on the risk register ? we talk about the whole - society approach , because we understand that the public — we , as the hon . Gentleman say — have to be part of it . Government have its role to play , but it will not do everything ; the public have a really important role to play in resilience . somerset be so often at the forefront of climate change . recently , Somerset Rivers Authority set up a community flood action fund to provide small grant for small - scale work to reduce flooding in Somerset . these local , community - lead intervention can make all the difference on the ground , but fund be limited , so how will the new resilience action plan future - proof local community against climate - relate risk , and how will it work to support local community intervention such as the SRA ' s community flood action fund ? those community initiative sound excellent . as I say in my statement , the Government have set aside some £ 4 billion for investment in flood defence over the come year . we have all see how thing have change over the past 10 or 20 year , and it be critical that we put in place the protection that community need . I thank the Minister very much for his answer and his statement this afternoon . the recent cyber - attack on M & S and other have show the devastation that can be work by the might of a keyboard . with trust in Northern Ireland use Encompass and those in England use the integrate care system , what plan do the Government and the Minister have to ensure we have the capacity to be inform and to treat patient should an NHS attack or shutdown take place ? I congratulate the hon . member on his wonderful tartan tie , which have catch my eye today — he be the well - dress man in the House . he be absolutely right about attack on the health system . it be frankly outrageous that people out there would seek to disable part of the NHS as a means of extortion , and it be really important that we do everything we can to defend the NHS and stop patient from be subject to delay in their treatment because of these outrageous attack . I thank the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster for his statement this afternoon . Road and Rail Projects with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on how we be reconnecte Britain . today , I be announce one of the most transformative investment in our transport network for a generation . we be greenlighte over 50 rail and road project , touch every corner of the country , from more rail capacity in Oxford and well road in Newcastle to new station in Devon . this be what deliver on our plan for change look like . we say we would raise living standard , so today ' s announcement be about take the brake off growth , support 42 , 000 new job and slash journey time . we say we would build 1 . 5 million new home , so we be directly support the construction of 39 , 000 new property , show how transport can lift up community and improve life . we say that we would accelerate to net zero , so not only will we make our road safe and less congested and continue the transition to electric vehicle in a sensible way ; we will get more people on public transport , back our railway with new link and more electrified track . More job , new housing and well journey be the people ' s priority , and they be my priority too . none of this be inevitable . we be here because this government be restore stability to our finance and honesty to our politic . thank to the 10 - year infrastructure strategy , we be commit at least £ 725 billion for infrastructure over the next decade , restore confidence , drive growth and transform how project be deliver . through phase 2 of the spending review , £ 92 billion will be spend on get Britain move . we have already confirm where some of that money be go , include billion of pound for upgrade on the trans - Pennine route , which be the backbone of our northern city ; a commitment to build the East West railway line to Cambridge ; the big ever investment in local transport across the midland and the north ; and over £ 2 billion to enable Transport for London to continue with the purchase of new Piccadilly , Bakerloo and Docklands Light Railway train . as the Chancellor say last month , we will also be confirm plan for Northern Powerhouse Rail soon . today , though , I can provide more detail on how we will use our wide spending review settlement . let I start with our main highway . it should come as no surprise when I say that the strategic road network be one of our most important national asset . carry one third of all traffic and two third of our freight and generate £ 400 billion for our economy , those essential artery sustain our business , our trade , and our very way of life . however , with much of the network build in the ' 70 and ' 80 , not only be many route in need of renewal ; there be pinch point where nothing short of new infrastructure will do . as such , after careful consideration , I can announce that we will fund five more strategic road enhancement project . that start with link up the M54 and the m6 and expand capacity on the A38 , which mean well link for thousand of worker in the midland and support over 15 , 000 new home across Derby . we will also start work on a continuous dual carriageway on the A66 across the Pennines , which will strengthen road safety , cut journey time by 12 minute and get more people to the region ' s stunning national park . we have set aside funding for the A46 Newark bypass scheme and the Simister Island interchange in Greater Manchester , with both scheme now await the outcome of the live planning process . some 97 % of trip directly depend on our road network . whether it be cycling , bus , walking or car — you name it , our road carry it . that be why we be invest record funding , with enough to fill an extra 7 million pothole this year , and why we extend the temporary cut in fuel duty at the last Budget . this government will always be on the side of the british people , who depend on our road day in , day out . today we be go even far . I have approve full business case on the Middlewich eastern bypass and the a382 from drumbridge to Newton Abbot , mean that they can now enter construction . I can also announce that we have secure funding to continue to take forward 28 scheme , from Somerset to Skipton and from Newcastle to North Hykeham . I have speak about the dozen of scheme that will transform road journey across the country . the decision we have make prioritise those essential trip to work , to the shop and to see loved one , and keep our vital freight sector move . let I turn to the project that will deliver more reliable journey for passenger on our railway . we know that rail investment outside London be well overdue . the spending review ramp up funding for the trans - Pennine route upgrade , for new station and capacity improvement in Wales and for East West Rail . the new midland rail hub will see the region ' s most ambitious rail improvement scheme to date . thank to Government funding , huge number of additional train and 20 million extra seat could be add to service in and out of Birmingham each year . but it be not just about deliver big - ticket project . I can today announce new rail station at Wellington and Cullompton in the south - west , which will bring significant benefit to local community . follow representation from Mayor David Skaith and my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) , I have also decide to fund the reopening of Haxby station on the York to scarborough line . we will replace the aged signal system on the Tyne and wear metro , secure the benefit of that service for the next generation . I have listen carefully to Mayor Helen Godwin and my hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sadik Al - Hassan ) about the need to reopen the Portishead line , and today I can confirm that we will do just that , connect 50 , 000 additional people to the rail network . make no mistake : these and other project will not just improve the passenger experience ; they be down payment on future economic growth , well connectivity , and the new job and home that this Government have promise . I know that some hon . member will have specific scheme in their constituency that be at the early stage or have not be fund in this spending review period , or that be cancel but not announce as such by the previous Government . let I reassure colleague that many be worthy project , and we will keep they under review . the soon - to - be - publish infrastructure pipeline will set out our long - term outlook and give colleague the transparency that for year they have sorely lack . it be important to set the context . we know that critical infrastructure project be promise . we know that expectation be raise . sadly , we know that there be no plan to pay for they . indeed , scheme that form part of the previous Government ' s major road network programme , all of which be mean to be in construction by now , have not progress as expect . almost half be yet to reach the outline business case stage , despite be in the programme for six year . year of dither and delay waste everyone ' s time and leave community in limbo . that , I must say , be the tragic legacy of the farcical Network North announcement make by the previous Prime Minister . it therefore fall to this Government to make the difficult but necessary choice about future transport project . we have to level with the british public , provide much - need certainty and govern with integrity . only those project that be fully cost , affordable and deliver a return on taxpayer ' money will be give the green light under my watch . that mean no more black hole , no more busted budget , and no more promising the moon on a stick — those day be over . I have therefore take the difficult decision on the strategic road network not to progress the A12 widen scheme . that and dualle the A66 be two of the most expensive strategic scheme on the table , and it be impossible to continue with both . we have also decide not to progress the A47 Wansford to Sutton scheme . we be already invest more than £ 500 million on improvement to the A47 corridor , with work to dual section in Norfolk already under way , but it be just not feasible to support further investment at this time . I understand that some community will feel frustrated , but by take this decision we be rebalancing fund towards those area that for too long have not have the infrastructure investment they deserve . the north and midland will now get a high proportion of strategic road spend than we have see in the past five year . I believe that be the right and fair thing to do . finally , the previous Government spend many year and a lot of money develop plan for large local scheme and major road network project that be never go to be affordable and therefore never get off the ground . we can not go on like that . although I have today write to colleague and council about 28 scheme that we will fund , many other now need to be review . my official will work with council on which scheme to prioritise , and I will update the House on next step once those discussion have take place . we be make a once - in - a - generation commitment to get Britain move . well road and new rail link will raise living standard , increase opportunity and deliver on our plan for change . throughout , we will always put the british people first . that mean be honest about the inevitable trade - off , understand that financial stability remain the bedrock of economic growth , and ensure that we always deliver the good value for taxpayer ' money . I truly believe that talent exist across this country , yet poor connectivity be a drag on opportunity and place a ceiling on people ' s aspiration . that change now . we will reconnect Britain , and we will deliver the world - class transport infrastructure that this country need . that be my mission . I commend this statement to the House . before I call the shadow Secretary of State , I remind the Transport Secretary that it be always open to she to ask for more time for her statement . there be a 10 - minute limit — so if the shadow Secretary of State would like more time , he too will get it . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for advance sight of it . make no mistake : infrastructure be the connective tissue that bind our economy together . our railway and strategic road be the vein and artery of our economy , connect business up and down the country . that be why these announcement be to be welcome , just as they be when they be previously announce by the last Conservative Government . for example , the M54 to M6 link road and the Portishead branch line be both announce and grant permission under the last Conservative Government . the new station at Wellington and Cullompton and the midland rail hub be all approve under the previous Conservative Government . the development consent order for the A66 northern trans - Pennine project be sign in March last year under the last Conservative Government . [ interruption . ] the Secretary of State call from a sedentary position , " where be the money ? " as she well know , that be in the last spending period , and the forthcoming spending review be always go to be after the general election . I could go on and on , because every single scheme announce by the Government today be the result of the work of the previous Conservative Government . I therefore can not muster the same enthusiasm as she when it come to today ' s announcement . the truth , whether they know it or not , be that the Secretary of State and her Ministers have be send to this House today to stage a distraction , because in recent week we have see the economic credibility and political unity of this Government implode . we have see the Chancellor , who promise to maintain an " iron grip " on the public finance , force to contend with unfunded u - turn after unfunded U - turn , all because the Prime Minister have lose control of their Back Benchers . we know what it mean : more taxis for family and for business — the Chancellor have admit it herself . we also know the impact that this will have on the economy . in the last few month the Office for Budget Responsibility , the Bank of England and the OECD have all downgrade the UK ' s growth forecast — by as much as half , in the case of the OBR — so I be afraid that the Government be kid themselves if they believe that reannounce transport infrastructure project that be already in the pipeline will revive an economy that be falter after a disastrous first year in office . with the tax burden reach an historic high , inflation almost double the Bank of England ' s target and inactivity rise because the Government be seemingly incapable of implement any kind of meaningful welfare reform , far from fix the foundation , they be actively undermine they . quite aside from the fact that these reannouncement on their own will not revive our falter economy , no deadline have be set for the completion of the project , and in the light of that I must question whether the funding for they be as secure as the right hon . Lady claim . give that the OBR be expect to downgrade growth and productivity forecast — not to mention Labour ' s u - turn — we know that the Government have create a black hole of billion of pound in the public finance , so I must ask the right hon . Lady how confident she be that fund will not be cut from these project to fill the Chancellor ' s economic black hole . do she recognise that these project alone will not revive an economy that be falter under the Government ' s economic mismanagement , and will she give a timeframe for they not just to be start , but to be complete ? what we have see in recent week be the follow : a Prime Minister whose unpopularity with the public be apparently exceed only by his unpopularity with his own Back Benchers and who be now clearly at their mercy ; a Chancellor who be wilt under the strain ; and a Government with no new idea , out of steam after only one year in office and force to rely on idea think up by other people . it be no surprise that Ministers would like to speak about anything other than their own record in office , but Britain deserve well than this . sometimes I wonder what alternative reality the hon . Gentleman be live in . Network North may have promise everything to everyone , but not a penny of it be fund , and promise local area scheme that the Conservatives know would never materialise be no way to run a Government and no way to run a country . this Government be now provide certainty to those area , give the green light to important road and rail scheme and be honest about what we can not afford . I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman catch what be say by the former Rail Minister Huw Merriman to the Transport Committee last week , but he have this to say about the record of the last government : " a lot of promise be make to mps and other as to the ambition , but it do not match the amount that be actually be set down . by the time I come into post I end up with a list that be much long than could be fund . " I rest my case . the hon . Gentleman talk of nothing be new . let I give he some example of new project that we be announce today . we be upgrade the Tyne and wear metro , replace a signal system that date back to the 1970 and enable the extension of the metro to Washington . we be provide new railway station : Wellington and Cullompton in Devon , Portishead and Pill with connection to Bristol , and Haxby in North Yorkshire , which will connect ten of thousand of people to the rail network . can the hon . Gentleman tell I which Conservative Transport Secretary commit fund to those scheme ? he can not , because none of they do . let I also give one of the new road as an example : the Middlewich bypass in Cheshire . the previous Government reject the business case for that scheme , but this Government be fund it . new infrastructure , new railway station and new road connect every part of our country — that be the difference that a Labour Government make . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I welcome the statement , and I be sure that the Roads Minister will ensure that the various road project deliver for local resident walk along and across the new junction , and benefit they as much as they benefit driver . the strategic road network project be clearly important to deal with congestion , but can I assume that each one have be subject to robust appraisal and business case development , and may I ask when we will see the equivalent work be do to address the chronic capacity crisis on the west coast main line ? I can assure my hon . friend that the scheme that be go ahead have be subject to a very robust business case appraisal . we believe that they offer the taxpayer value for money , and can unlock the connectivity that be so critical to drive economic growth across the country . my hon . Friend also ask — I think I understand her question correctly — about capacity on the west coast main line . we be aware of capacity constraint between Birmingham and Manchester , which be predict to last into the next decade , and although we have make it clear that we will not reverse the decision to cancel phase 2 of HS2 , we be review option for address those capacity issue in the future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . People around the country have be plague and let down by a transport system that be completely neglect by the last Conservative Government . the problem have range from pothole to cancel bus service , along with entirely fictional budget for rail and other transport project . give that a safe , reliable transport system be vital to economic growth , this capital investment be of course welcome news . we be pleased to see the Government answer the call of Liberal Democrats and other campaigner for vital upgrade such as new rail investment and improvement on the northern trans - Pennine route . give the hard - fought campaign by local people in my constituency , I particularly welcome the confirmation of new station at Wellington — first propose in the House by my predecessor Jeremy Browne — and Cullompton . I can not go quite as far as the Secretary of State in agree to relocate Wellington in Devon — it remain in Somerset — but both those rail project be long overdue , and I thank the Secretary of State for engage with not just I but my hon . friend the Members for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) and other on both side of the House , include the hon . member for Exeter ( Steve Race ) , who I see be present , on the vital importance of those station to the regional economy . the long overdue funding for the west midland rail hub be also welcome . let I now turn to the road infrastructure project . many of the scheme announce today have be seek for many year . we be pleased to see investment in the A66 , for which my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) have consistently campaign , as well as investment in infrastructure in Manchester , Derby and Nottingham . however , we still need clarity on exactly how the fund for these project will be spend . after year of delay , broken promise and mismanagement — not least on hs2 — public confidence in the Government ' s ability to deliver major infrastructure be understandably low . give the effect of inflation during the 12 - month delay of the Wellington and Cullompton station project , among other , can the Secretary of State confirm that that project will be fully fund and complete in the two year that it will take to construct the station ? when will the Government finally publish detailed plan for Northern Powerhouse Rail ? can the Government give the country a firm assurance that all these project will be deliver on time and on budget , in a cost - effective manner ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that I will do everything in my power to ensure that future transport project be deliver on time and on budget . he ask about Northern Powerhouse Rail . as I say in my statement , we will provide further detail about that in the come week . he be right to mention the two new station , Wellington in — forgive I — Somerset and Cullompton , which , be locate between Exeter and Taunton , will provide vital new connection for those regional centre , support economic growth and plan housing in the area . as the hon . Gentleman have put the case to I directly before , I know that both town have significant expansion plan , so those station will be critical to give local people access to job at major employment centre such as the one in Exeter . I welcome the statement , and thank the Transport Secretary for all the positive engagement that she and other Ministers have have with the midland rail project . at the heart of those work be the upgrade of king Norton station in my constituency , which be critically important for the cross - city line , and be also the birthplace of Thomas the Tank Engine . the Secretary of State will understand that we , as local mp , be press for that next level of detail , so will she help to keep up the head of steam around this project , and leave commuter in my constituency feel chuffed to bit ? I can not possibly compete with those railway pun , but I be delighted that my hon . friend ' s constituent have such a strong advocate for public transport and investment in the rail network . he be right to say that the midland rail hub can have transformative impact , and I thank he for all that he have do in champion the scheme over the month . he have be such a positive member of this House . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , but I be really disappointed that the TavyRail scheme have receive a red light . we have hear quite a lot about the investment in Devon and Somerset . the Government be deliver a huge amount of investment in Plymouth , which be welcome , but without a rail link between Tavistock and Plymouth that can continue far into my constituency at Ivybridge , I struggle to see how the investment in defence and housing will be fulfil . give that the Secretary of State be commit at least £ 725 billion for infrastructure over the next decade , I would be interested to know why she could not find £ 1 . 5 million to fund the business case for TavyRail . we be keep a number of scheme under review , and we will set out a pipeline of future infrastructure scheme that we believe be worthy , but which have not be fund in this spending review . I be happy to receive more detail about the particular scheme that the hon . Lady raise . the announcement of upgrade to the northbound M54 - M6 junction be hugely welcome . it will make get to Stafford from Telford much easy , and have a really positive impact on our economic development . when do the Secretary of State anticipate that that work will start , so that my county can keep benefit from this Government ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . we will set out the timetable for the delivery of these scheme as we produce the next road investment strategy — RIS3 — which we will have do by the end of March next year . for 30 long and weary year , my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) and I have campaign for a through - train from Grimsby , which would stop at Market Rasen and end up in London . we have be make numerous promise by Network Rail , which be now say that the platform be too short , that a bridge need to be build , and that it will cost £ 25 million — the usual negativity . the Secretary of State be a feisty Minister . I promise she that if she get we our train , I will campaign for it to be rename the " Heidi Alexander , Heroine of Lincolnshire " . I feel that I be make progress , because the last time the right hon . Gentleman ask I a question , I believe he suggest that I name a train after Margaret Thatcher . I politely decline . he will get everywhere with flattery . of course , the digital signal on the east coast main line will have a positive impact on service , but I be afraid I can not make a commitment on the particular service that he want at this time . transport be the backbone of our economy , so the record £ 92 billion investment in rail and road project be hugely welcome . the Secretary of State be right to say that we need more people on public transport . although Luton station will finally see work start on its much - need lift , we need to tackle the poor state of the station in order to encourage more people to use the railway . will the Secretary of State or one of her Ministers meet I to discuss how we can do so ? my hon . friend make a fair point : station need to be welcome and attractive place . I be pleased that the accessibility improvement be happen at Luton station , and I would be very happy to meet she , as she request . however the Secretary of State dress this up , her Labour Government , aid by Mayor Parker , be still leave community such as Aldridge behind by push our train station project into the siding . give her announcement — or reannouncement — of the midland rail hub , can she confirm whether she be committed to fully fund the whole project , include all the chord , and when will it be deliver ? we will set out more detail on the midland rail hub in due course . I simply observe that when the right hon . Lady be a Rail Minister , she be unfortunately unable to deliver the station for which she now advocate . I congratulate my right hon . friend on her statement , and welcome the investment in transport . let I take she back to the propose Liverpool - Manchester railway line , because it be important that this deliver for my constituent in Widnes and Halewood . in her discussion with the Mayor of the Liverpool city region and other leader in the area , will she bear in mind that one of the proposal be for a Liverpool Gateway station ? Ditton in my constituency , which be the site of an oil station and have good link to both the west coast main line and the freight line , be ideally place . will she bear that in mind in any future discussion that she have with the Liverpool city region ? let I assure my hon . friend that I be in frequent discussion with the Mayor for the Liverpool city region , Steve Rotheram , as well as the Mayor for Greater Manchester . I be aware of the propose Liverpool Gateway station in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I hope to be able to say more on Northern Powerhouse Rail in the come week . a few week ago I be in Eamont Bridge and meet a retired police officer , who share with I his experience of visit road traffic accident and , indeed , of have to break the news of the death of love one to countless people over his career . he beg I to carry on campaign for the upgrade to the A66 . on his behalf , and on behalf of the thousand of people who be part of the campaign to see that upgrade happen , I thank the Secretary of State for commit the money to do that today . however , we have waste a year while this have be under deliberation . will she now give an update timescale , so that we can get on with the work as soon as possible in order to keep my constituent safe and to boost the economy of the north of England ? as I say in response to a previous question , we will set out the delivery timetable for all the scheme that we be announce today when we produce the next road investment strategy . we will produce a draft of that later this year , and the final version will be publish by March . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , and I particularly thank she for the announcement just a few day ago of £ 2 . 5 billion for the public transport network in Greater Manchester . that be very welcome news . I have be campaign for a long time for the extension of Manchester ' s Metrolink tram network into my constituency , and I thank the Secretary of State and the Chancellor for fund the extension to Stockport town centre . I have one ask . reddish South train station in my constituency be one of the quiet railway station in the UK , with just one service per week . the friend of Reddish South Station group be very active , and I be with they on Sunday . will the Secretary of State restore proper passenger service at Reddish South train station ? I be pleased to hear that my hon . friend welcome the record investment in city region that the Chancellor announce shortly before the spending review . it be worth nearly £ 16 billion across the country , and the extension of the tram network in Greater Manchester be a key part of that funding . I be aware of the campaign for a full service to Reddish South , and I encourage my hon . friend to keep work with the Mayor of Greater Manchester and Transport for Greater Manchester to build the case for it . the Secretary of State have make reference to those area of the country that want transport infrastructure project and have not get they . may I ask she to spare a thought for those place that have get transport infrastructure project that they do not want ? she know that High Speed 2 pass through my constituency but deliver no benefit to the people I represent . in future round of consideration for rail and road project , will she consider give priority to those place that be suffer in that way , but which have a real need for other type of transport infrastructure that perhaps they deserve as compensation ? with respect to HS2 , one of the benefit be that when the high - speed train move on to new line , we will be able to improve other regional service on the exist line . although the right hon . and learn Gentleman may feel that the HS2 line have limited value to his constituent at the moment , get it up and run will open up other option for rail travel move forward . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and for the significant investment in transport across the UK . the confirmation of funding for the A511 corridor in the east midland be extremely welcome . for far too long , community such as mine have be overlook by the previous Government for infrastructure investment where we have have lot of housing growth . this funding mark a turning point , accelerate opportunity and connect our community . can the Secretary of State assure I that every part of my constituency will see and feel the full economic benefit of this vital investment ? our local road have a key role to play in drive growth across the UK and across the area my hon . friend represent . they will allow people to access new opportunity and a high quality of life wherever they choose . I be pleased to confirm that the scheme in her constituency be one of 28 that the Government have secure funding for and will be go ahead . just one large storm could sever the rail network at Dawlish , so will the Secretary of State commit to stage 5 of Network Rail ' s resilience programme ? in my constituency there be a need for a railway station at Edginswell , which would equally unlock regeneration . I would welcome the Secretary of State ' s comment . we have have to prioritise our funding on the scheme that will make the great difference for passenger and economic growth as soon as possible . have already invest in secure the cliff and make the coastline more resilient in the south - west , the final phase of work will be keep under review as part of our pipeline of future funding . this will be determine by the output of the cliff monitoring and drainage work that we be continue to fund . I congratulate the Secretary of State on an ambitious but fully funded and deliverable plan to reconnect Britain . I welcome the commitment make to I by the Roads Minister last week that National Highways will review the safety of the dangerous slip road at East Ilsley and Beedon on the A34 , follow my campaign . do the Secretary of State agree that road safety must be at the heart of our plan for Britain ' s road ? I entirely agree with my hon . friend , which be why , for the first time in year , this Government will be produce a new road safety strategy . I look forward to talk more with she and other colleague about its content . the Secretary of State be a Wiltshire MP , so she will be very familiar with the town of Westbury , which have wait for decade for its bypass . will she assure I that she be actively look at proposal to bypass Westbury to the west of the town , include yarnbrook , and do she agree that the north - south strategic study provide an opportunity to get the bypass that westbury so desperately need ? I will need to write to the right hon . Gentleman about the Westbury scheme . I will make sure that I look into the detail of it and I will come back to he . I welcome the ramp up spend that the Secretary of State have announce today and the £ 445 million for Wales that be promise at the spending review . the new station at Magor and Undy could take car off the M4 and open door for local people who do not have a car and currently can not get a job because of a lack of transport . do she agree that the Magor and Undy walkway station would be an excellent candidate for start the five Burns station , give the track and infrastructure that already exist at Magor and Undy ? my hon . friend have be a fearsome advocate for the station at Magor and Undy . she will know that we have allocate £ 445 million over the next 10 year to right the historic wrong of rail investment in Wales . I be look forward to work with the Wales Rail Board to determine appropriate priority and ensure that the community she represent in Wales get the infrastructure they need . spiral cost mean that Wales be owe at least £ 4 billion from HS2 , yet , as the hon . member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) say , we be set to receive just £ 445 million over a 10 - year period , which will be use for five station , with nothing west of Cardiff . St Clears in my constituency have be promise a station for year . can the Secretary of State say if there will be any additional money for this vital project , or be we expect to be grateful for the continue underfunding of Welsh railway ? we be see a step change in the amount of funding that this Government be put into the Welsh rail network . the £ 445 million will fund development project as well as the delivery of some new infrastructure , and that be in south Wales and also in north Wales . I would be happy to speak far to the hon . member about the scheme in her constituency that she have mention . much of what be in today ' s statement be of course welcome , but for place such as Bradford that have be leave behind for a generation , we need to go much far . so I again make the case for a connection for Bradford to the trans - Pennine route as part of Northern Powerhouse Rail . this , along with a new rail station and a bus station , will unlock £ 4 . 5 billion in economic output , which be growth not just for Bradford , but for the whole region . while I appreciate that the Secretary of State be say the decision on Northern Powerhouse Rail will be announce in due course , Bradford can not wait for that growth . can she give a specific time when that will be announce , and can she confirm that Bradford will be include as part of the trans - Pennine route ? I be very aware of the case that my hon . friend and the leader of Bradford council have put forward for a new station . as he note , we will be set out our plan for Northern Powerhouse Rail in the come week . the large road programme in the UK be the low Thames cross from Tilbury to Gravesend . it be now schedule to cost about £ 10 billion , and the Government say that 90 % or more of that will be fund from the private sector . I ask the Secretary of State last month on the Floor of the House which institution exactly be go to finance that , and she reply , in essence , " I ' ll get back to you . " so can I ask she again , because the long the Government refuse to answer this question , the more sceptical people in Essex and Kent will become about whether that much - need , vital strategic link be ever go to get build at all ? one of the first thing I do when I come into this post be to agree with the Treasury that we would explore private finance option for the low Thames crossing . we be work at the moment on secure a suitable private sector partner to finance the scheme . however , I think the right hon . Member have a bit of a brass neck , if I be honest . his government sit on a planning application for year and year . this Government , within a year of come into office , have grant planning consent and have decide to take forward the scheme with private finance , because we know how critical that crossing will be for people live in Kent and Essex , and also for the freight and logistic company that will use it . I thank the Secretary of State for the statement , and I welcome the long - overdue and funded commitment to the new Cullompton train station , which will benefit Exeter . I commend the activist across the area for their successful campaign , and I also welcome the work do by the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) . do the Secretary of State agree with I that continue to invest in public transport infrastructure and accessibility at station such as Exeter St Thomas will help city such as Exeter to grow their economy sustainably , deliver job and well living standard for everyone in those city ? I agree that accessibility at railway station be critical . obviously , it be key for disabled member of our community , but it be also vital for young parent travel with pram and buggy , or people go on holiday with heavy suitcase . my hon . friend have be a real champion for a new lift at Exeter St Thomas station , and while it be not currently on the list of 50 feasibility scheme that we be do , I be sure he will continue to make the case to I for its worth . the M54 - M6 link road in my constituency be something that my constituent and I have long campaign for , because many resident in the village of Featherstone , Hilton and Shareshill be currently affect by traffic try to link on to the M6 , which have an impact on people ' s life . can the Secretary of State assure we that everything will be do to ensure that the scheme move quickly and be build as swiftly as possible ? I can give the right hon . Gentleman that assurance . I want to see spade in the ground as soon as possible , so that people can benefit from that vital new piece of road infrastructure . I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for her pragmatic approach to government , rather than the previous " pie in the sky " approach . it would be remiss of I not to mention Broadmead Road bridge in Redbridge , which have be close to vehicle traffic since 2023 . after 14 year of austerity , Redbridge council do not have the fund to reopen it , and I be sure she know from her previous role that the Mayor of London also do not have any money . give that the bridge affect five constituency , run over the central line and connect to the M11 , the a406 and the M25 , can she please include its restoration in her plan to upgrade road and railway across the country ? I have a meeting with my right hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) recently , who make a similar case about Broadmead Road bridge . in the spending review , we secure fund to set up a structure fund to ensure that the Government can make money available to local authority with fail asset where the cost of the asset be so great that it would be prohibitive for the local authority to address it on its own . we will be issue a call for evidence to ask for feedback on how good to structure that fund , and I hope to be able to say more about its design before the end of the year . improved rail link be vital to support the plan development around Ashchurch and Northway in my constituency , include a garden community and an outlet centre that open next week . current service to Ashchurch for Tewkesbury station be limited and unreliable , with the near arterial road routinely gridlocke . I welcome the funding for the midland rail hub , but my constituent will be eager to learn whether funding for improvement at Ashchurch for Tewkesbury will be incorporate in that funding . if I may , I will write to the hon . gentleman with the detail he request . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and , more importantly , for her commitment to the midland rail hub . that be not just warm word and empty promise , but a breakthrough moment for the west midland , especially town such as Redditch . the scheme will deliver extra service and million more train seat a year for my business and constituent . would she therefore like to visit Redditch to see what that improvement will mean for our town and , perhaps , to get the spade in the ground as quickly as possible to deliver the project ? I would be delighted to visit the constituency of my hon . friend , who be a great champion for Redditch . I know what a transformative project the midland rail hub could be for his constituent by improve capacity into Moor Street station in Birmingham . I look forward to discuss it more when I visit . obviously , the Secretary of State have an open invitation to visit Crowborough and Wadhurst station . I will follow on from the Secretary of State ' s reply to my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) about the service between Grimsby , Cleethorpes and King ' s Cross . the Secretary of State rightly mention digital signal on the east coast main line , which will improve capacity , but five train a day already run between King ' s Cross and Lincoln . all that we be ask be for they to continue the last 40 mile through Market Rasen and Grimsby to Cleethorpes . there would be minimal expenditure apart from , I think , a safe crossing at Market Rasen station , and it would help the economic growth of the north Lincolnshire area . the hon . Gentleman make a compelling case . as I say , we prioritise the scheme that we have announce today on the basis of the one that will deliver the great improvement to passenger most quickly . I know that there will be other scheme worthy of investment , but that be why we have not announce the particular service and scheme that he want today . in the year of the 200th anniversary of the railway , my rail city of York will greatly welcome the announcement about Haxby station . the line in question will address congestion issue and provide economic opportunity in my constituency . the train will arrive at York station , but the rear of that station be not yet accessible . will the Secretary of State ensure that as we develop our network , we have real access for all disabled people and other , so that we can gain the benefit from these new announcement ? if my hon . friend write to I with further detail of the access issue at the rear of York station , I will be happy to speak to the Rail Minister and relevant organisation to see whether there be improvement that we can make . I appreciate that we need accessible station if everyone be to benefit . resident in Somerton and Langport be isolate from the railway line that run right through the area . some 50 , 000 resident could benefit from a new station , but hope for that station take a massive hit when the Chancellor cancel the restore your railway fund . what step will the Secretary of State take to introduce train link for community such as Somerton and Langport ? in the short term , will she commit to expand integrated bus route , so that my constituent can get to the near railway station ? we will publish an integrated national transport strategy later this year to address precisely the sort of issue that the hon . member raise about the criticality of bus link to station in the absence of a new station . my predecessor and the Chancellor take the decision to cancel the restore your railway programme because it be unaffordable in its entirety , but where scheme offer good value for money and really transformative benefit for the local economy — such as the Wellington and Cullompton scheme , and the Portishead scheme that we have announce today — I hope that we have show that we be prepared to look at they and take they forward . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . I welcome the announcement about the A46 bypass , give that the A46 go through my constituency , and about the midland rail hub that will connect Nottingham to Birmingham . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the east midland , however , I must mention the electrification of the midland main line . I believe that the Department have receive representation from more than 30 east midland MPs , the mayor ' s office and the APPG about the project . this feel like a miss opportunity . what step be be take to make sure that the project be not miss , but continue to be debate and discuss by the Department ? I believe that my hon . friend and some of his east midland colleague be meet the Rail Minister later this week to discuss the midland main line electrification phase 3 . the cost of the scheme be substantial , and we have to prioritise other scheme that deliver more tangible benefit to passenger soon . however , we will keep the electrification scheme under review as part of our pipeline of project for future funding . how can I possibly welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement when , by her own admission , she have cancel the A12 widen scheme and say nothing about the dualling of the A120 between Braintree and Marks Tey ? how do she intend Braintree , Colchester and Tendring to deliver the massive new housing target impose by the Government with no new road or rail infrastructure at all ? the simple truth be that we inherit a series of commitment that could not be afford , so we have to take the difficult decision not to progress some project . National Highways will now work to bring those project to a close . I will say that on the A12 , if there be individual , small - scale intervention that could unlock or address particular problem , we would be happy to look at those . I welcome the improvement to the A38 and the midland rail hub , which will mean 300 extra train through Burton every week . the Secretary of State will know that I have be campaign for the A50 / a500 corridor , which be essential for local people and business ; the Roads Minister will remember the time when she visit my constituency and get stick in traffic on the A50 . what progress might we hear on this vital corridor upgrade ? I can assure my hon . friend that we will look carefully at the A50 scheme as part of our planning for the next road investment strategy . he will have hear I say that we plan to publish a draft of that later this year , and to have that finalise by the end of March . we in Northern Ireland have a salutary experience recently when a major road project on our A5 be strike down by the High Court because of a failure to comply with net zero expectation under the Climate Change Act 2008 . give that the legislation be very similar in Great Britain , be the Secretary of State satisfied that all these new road project will not also fall foul of the net zero campaign ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the environmental impact of all road scheme be consider carefully before business case be approve and plan approval be give . in fact , in many case , scheme tackle congestion hotspot will deliver environmental benefit — in particular , air quality and noise benefit . I be not concerned about the possibility of what the hon . Gentleman suggest , but I be grateful to he for highlight that case in Northern Ireland . when Heathrow airport set out its growth plan , a key component of they will be the plan for improved access by public transport . will the Secretary of State urge it to look at the southern rail link , which should run through my constituency specifically , of course ? it could have huge benefit across the south - east and would connect we to the airport . we expect any promoter of an expand Heathrow to consider how people will get to and from the airport ; neither my hon . friend nor I want to see the M25 or M4 turn into Europe ' s large car park . I expect any scheme promoter to ensure that ease of access by public transport be take into account when put together any proposal . I welcome the commitment to deliver East West Rail . stick with the railway , will the Secretary of State provide assurance to my constituent that she be committed to deliver step - free access — in particular , at Harlington and Flitwick station ? on road , junction 13 of the M1 be desperately in need of remodelle to cope with a grow population and to ease traffic flow . what assessment have be make of the benefit of remodelle that junction ? I would need to write to the hon . gentleman with the detail on junction 13 of the M1 . I hear the case that he make for improved accessibility at Harlington and Flitwick station , and would be happy to correspond with he far on whether they be cover by the 50 feasibility study that we be do . we have fund available in this spending review to construct some of those scheme , and I would be happy to provide a write update on that . in my four year as shadow Transport Secretary , the issue of electrification be never far from the top of the agenda , and I very much welcome Secretary of State ' s announcement around the trans - Pennine route upgrade . however , may I point out that the north of England be not confine to the conurbation in that immediate area ? there be more to it than that . in 2015 , the electrification taskforce establish that the line from Northallerton through to Thornaby and Middlesbrough in my constituency , and indeed onwards to Redcar — the heart of Net Zero Teesside — be right at the top of the tier . when the infrastructure pipeline come forward , I urge the Secretary of State to take into consideration the gross value add that the extension would bring , because Teesside and the Tees Valley be ready to make their contribution to grow this economy , and the extension would ensure that they could . my hon . friend make a powerful case . that case be why , even if we be not commit funding in this spending review to electrification project , we will keep they under review as we move forward . we be also consider and develop our strategy on rail decarbonisation more broadly . Most of our exist arterial route be now electrify . there be also rapidly evolve technology ; there be bi - mode and even tri - mode train now . we need to consider our strategy in the round . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , and it be good that Devon make it on to the map — just . many on the liberal Democrat Benches and other across the House travel from Paddington down to the far south - west , and we have speak with your Department about the effect of the Old Oak Common work on that line . can the Minister confirm that the Department be consider mitigation for the effect of the Old Oak Common development — namely , ensure more capacity and reliability , potentially electrify the main line to the west , and improve 4 g connectivity on those train ? " your Department " — anyone would assume that I be run Transport . I be a Minister in that Department once , but not any more . I call the Secretary of State . in the past couple of week , we announce Project Reach , which will improve mobile connectivity in a number of tunnel and siding , and some of those improvement will take place over the great Western Railway network . on the work at Old Oak Common , the Rail Minister be very alive to the question of how we minimise disruption for user of the GWR service , both in the construction phase and once HS2 be in operation , and be look in detail at that . of course , when it be finally open , the station will offer a valuable interchange for GWR customer , who will be able to go to Birmingham without go into central London . boost growth and prosperity across the country , and especially in rural and coastal area , be vital . what be the Secretary of State deliver for Cornwall , to help town and village in my area , include Saltash , Liskeard and Polperro , particularly as we work to find a long - term , sustainable and fair solution to the issue of the Tamar crossing ? my hon . friend be in contact with I directly a couple of day ago about mobile connectivity improvement on GWR that improve service in her constituency . I know that an integrated bus network in Cornwall be absolutely vital to her constituent , and through our Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , we want to give local leader more power to shape the bus network that community like hers need and deserve . as the Secretary of State know , the big connectivity issue for the Isle of Wight be its ferry service . I welcome her engagement on that issue . might she consider cross - solent ferry service to be part of the UK ' s road and rail network ? the Isle of Wight ' s road and rail be connect to the rest of the UK only via entirely privatised , very expensive and completely unregulated ferry company . I understand the importance of a reliable and affordable ferry service . the Isle of Wight ' s ferry service be obviously provide privately , and our road network , and our rail network especially , will increasingly be in public ownership in the future . while I can not commit to do what he ask , I can commit to work with the hon . Gentleman and his colleague on the Isle of Wight , my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) , to try to improve this situation for their resident . today ' s announcement be great news for people across Lichfield , Burntwood and the village . to the north , we have improvement on the A38 , make access to the University of Derby easier ; to the west , we have improvement to the M4 and M6 link road , which will be great for access to the i54 , and to Telford and Wales . to the south , we have the midland rail hub , which will be excellent for the cross - city line . all we need be for Reform - control Staffordshire county council to the east to sort out Chetwynd bridge ; then we will have the entire compass cover . turn to the south , the cross - city line be the busy commuter line outside of London , but since covid , we have have just two train an hour from Lichfield Trent Valley to Birmingham . the midland rail hub will get we back up to four . will the Secretary of State come to Lichfield to meet I — potentially on her way to Redditch — and ensure that we can deliver more train on the cross - city line as quickly as possible ? my hon . friend be clearly at the heart of all the action today . have accept an invitation to visit Redditch , how can I refuse a visit to Lichfield ? I would be happy to talk to he more about the challenge of and opportunity for midland transport when I visit . the Secretary of State say that she be reconnecte Britain , and then proceed to mention Wales only once . these plan will not give we the boost that we need in Wales . we be the poor nation in the UK . invest in infrastructure deliver economic growth and boost productivity — that be true — so why have she give up on Wales ? will we ever see the full electrification of the north and south main line ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that this Government have not give up on Wales — in fact , it be the precise opposite . it be why , during the spending review , the Chancellor stand at this Dispatch Box and announce £ 445 million of investment into rail project — right the wrong of that historic under - investment . the fight for the Middlewich eastern bypass start more than 40 year ago , and after all these year of false start , dash hope and frustrated resident , I could not be prouder that this Labour Government be finally deliver on that project . after 14 year of under - investment in area such as mine , it be really encouraging to see the Government deliver the funding that be need to make such a vital infrastructure project a reality . the recent reform to the Treasury ' s Green Book , champion by my hon . friend the Members for Congleton ( Sarah Russell ) and for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) , have clearly play a crucial role in enable project such as this to move forward , well reflect the need and potential of town like Middlewich . how do my hon . friend see the Middlewich eastern bypass , along with the 50 other road scheme that she have greenlit , contribute to the long term economic growth and support more balanced and inclusive development across all part of the country ? I be really pleased to be able to announce today the green light for the Middlewich bypass . I know that that new 2 . 5 km of single carriageway bypass to the east of Middlewich will make a big difference to my hon . friend ' s constituency , unlock swifter , easy journey and more route to employment and opportunity for his constituent for which he so powerfully advocate . I thank the Secretary of State for greenlighte the work on the a382 into Newton Abbot . that will be a massive improvement when it be complete . may I congratulate the successful team at Teignbridge and at Devon county council , who have be work on the project for some while ? however , I be disappointed to hear that Dawlish be not on the list and will be put back . indeed , although I be pleased that the Government will be continue to fund the monitoring of the cliff , may I draw it to the Secretary of State ' s attention that it be a single catastrophic shift , rather than a gradual increase of the situation , that cause the collapse of the cliff at Dawlish that shut the railway for eight week , cause approximately £ 1 . 2 billion of damage to the south - west economy ? as I say in response to the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , we have already heavily invest in secure the cliff and make the coastline more resilient in Dawlish . we be keep that final phase of work under review , and it will be possible to determine the next course of action only once that further cliff monitoring and drainage work have take place . none the less , I can assure he that we will keep it within the pipeline of scheme that we be consider for future investment . the previous Government dodge vital infrastructure decision for 14 year , so I be glad that this Government be step up with project such as the east coast main line upgrade , which have be announce today , strengthen connection to Leeds and West Yorkshire . however , although connection to London be important , anyone cross the Pennines from Leeds to Manchester via town in my constituency will know that this route be in vital need of investment . will the Secretary of State assure my constituent that this will not be the last of the project that she announce , and that the Calder Valley line upgrade be still very much on the table ? as I have say , there be a number of very worthy rail scheme which , although funding may not have be allocate during this spending review period , be important to the travel public . my hon . friend make a strong case for the scheme that will benefit his constituent , and I can assure he that when we have any update on future funding availability I will come back and update the House . the Northern Ireland Minister for Infrastructure inform I this morning that her Department be work with the Department for Transport and the European Investment Bank on the recommendation in the all - island strategic rail review . one of those recommendation be the opening of the Antrim to Lisburn line , which include the opening of three previously close station at Crumlin , Ballinderry , and Glenavy , with a new hall at the Belfast international airport . can the Secretary of State provide any further update on what support the Government can provide or what engagement she have have with the Department of Infrastructure in Northern Ireland or the European Investment Bank on what will be a critical piece of investment in my constituency of South Antrim ? although I have not personally have any direct engagement , it may be that the Rail Minister or my official have , and so I would be happy to write back to the hon . gentleman to update he on any collaboration that be take place in this respect . People across Cumbria will warmly welcome the decision make by the Secretary of State about the dualling of the Pennine section of the A66 , which will benefit the whole county . however , I wonder whether she might also say something about another scheme that be not yet at the same level of development , which be the Cumbria coastal line , run from Carlisle through my constituency to Barrow and then on to Lancaster . other cumbrian colleague and I have a very productive meeting with the Rail Minister last week , and I wonder whether the Secretary of State will help to push for the final business case to be invest in , so that we can make some progress on the upgrade to that all - important line ? my hon . friend have speak to I directly about this in the past couple of day . I know that the Rail Minister find that meet very helpful . I appreciate that there be some strategic crossover with Defence and the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , but I will be sure to stay in touch with my hon . friend as the business case develop . the A483 that run between Welshpool and Oswestry be a key economic artery for the Marches region , but like the rest of North Shropshire ' s transport infrastructure , it have be seriously neglect over many year . that have leave the crossroad at Llynclys in my constituency as one of the west midland ' bad accident blackspot . Highways England have a great plan to redesign it and make it safe for all concerned . will the Secretary of State meet I to see how we can progress that critical improvement ? I would be very happy to ask my hon . friend the Minister for the future of Roads to take that meeting as I suspect that she will be close to some of the detail of the work that National Highways be do . I welcome today ' s announcement that will see improvement in the performance on the west coast main line , particularly as they come during the week where , in my constituency and in many other , we celebrate Crewe Day , which commemorate the anniversary almost 200 year ago when the first rail service pass through the now strategic rail hub of Crewe . but can the Secretary of State outline how this funding will be use to ensure that freight growth target can be meet on the west coast corridor , and tell we whether new route , such as the midland north - west rail link be be consider to support this ambition ? I shall write to my hon . friend about the detail of the midland north - west rail link . as we establish great British Railways , we will be place a duty on the new organisation , which will be the publicly own organisation to bring together the management of track and train , to increase the amount of freight that we transport on the railway . we do need to get lorry off the road and move more good on the rail network . it be a strategic objective for I and my Department to make sure that we be maximise the amount of freight that we can transport on the rail network , while also deliver excellent passenger service . the Secretary of State and the Minister for the Future of Roads will be surprised that I be go to break the habit of a lifetime and not talk about the Gateshead flyover for a change . but I be very interested in the structure fund , and I look forward to engage far with the Department on how we can deliver this vital infrastructure for Gateshead . instead of the flyover , I want to talk about the delivery of the signal system for the metro — slightly less exciting for some perhaps , but it be incredibly important . that come on top of new train and £ 1 . 85 billion of investment , include in a new metro line . do the Secretary of State agree that investment in the north - east be be deliver because we have a labour mayor in Kim McGuinness work with Labour mp and a Labour Government ? I agree 100 % . Mayor Kim McGuinness be a fearsome advocate for her region . the first day I meet she , she manage to mention to I the Tyne bridge , Nexus signal and extend the metro out to Washington all in about 30 second . I be really pleased that we be deliver these vital improvement to transport infrastructure for his constituent and the wide region . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and the Minister for the future of Roads for her generous engagement with I regard the expansion of the A38 in Derby , which have be greenlit today . many resident and business will welcome the expansion of the A38 , which be a significant bottleneck . it also mean we now have the opportunity to unlock economic growth around that stretch of road . however , some resident be rightly concerned about the impact of the road on establish woodland and Markeaton Park . how much biodiversity net gain will be deliver through the project , and will it be use to drive improvement in public transport , walk and cycling ? finally , can she ensure that this development have no effect whatsoever on the UNESCO world heritage status of the Derwent valley ? I would expect all road scheme that we be announce today to contribute to our public transport objective and improve the walk and cycling environment . as I say in my statement , road be use by everyone and for many different mode of transport . on my hon . friend ' s point about biodiversity net gain , I be assure that all scheme have go through a very thorough environmental assessment . I will write to he on the other issue he raise . I call Markus Campbell - Savours to ask the final question . like many Cumbrians , I be delighted and relieve that the Government have agree funding for the A66 trans - Pennine project . it never should have be in doubt , and it be clear to I that it would not have be be it not for the financial legacy of the previous Government . minister can now look forward to I lobby for a new roundabout at Brigham and Broughton in west Cumbria — a project reject by the previous Government . can the Secretary of State set out what assessment she have make of the benefit to my constituent of the A66 trans - Pennine project ? last but not least , Madam Deputy Speaker . the A66 be a vital scheme that will not only reduce journey time but improve safety , unlock the delivery of new home in some location and open up access to the region ' s beautiful national park . the work never stop in this job , so I note what my hon . Friend say about his campaign for a new roundabout , and I look forward to discuss that with he in the future . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in my 33 year in this House it have always be the practice that a statement of this nature would be make alongside a White Paper , which would be available in the Vote Office to Members as soon as the Secretary of State sit down . there be no White Paper in the Vote Office to explain the detail of the Government ' s decision making . be there anything you can do to elucidate from the Secretary of State whether a White Paper will be forthcoming and when that will be ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . that be not a matter for the Chair , but I be sure the Secretary of State will have hear his comment . Post Office Horizon Inquiry : volume 1 Sir Wyn Williams have today release the first volume of his report into the Horizon scandal , which cause so much harm to so many innocent people . the fearless and diligent work of his inquiry have , I believe , win the trust and admiration of postmaster . the inquiry have ask penetrate question of a large number of witness and have scrutinise more than 2 million page of evidence . I know that the whole House recognise the bravery of the postmaster who fight against enormous odd to see their cause recognise . Sir Wyn ' s report remind we that blameless people be impoverished , bankrupt , stress beyond belief , and lose their job , marriage , reputation , mental health and , in some case , their life . I be sure that the whole House share my gratitude to Sir Wyn and his team for their work so far . this be only the first volume of their final report , spell out the scandal ' s human impact and look at the redress scheme that have be put in place in response . the second volume will in due course deal with the cause of the scandal and how repetition can be avoid . to be clear , I be very sympathetic to Sir Wyn ' s 19 recommendation in the volume publish today . clearly , a number of they require careful consideration . we will respond to they promptly , as some concern the ongoing delivery of Horizon redress scheme . Sir Wyn have set we a deadline of 10 October , and we will meet it . the House will see that Sir Wyn have accept that " the Post Office , the Department and Ministers continue to adhere to the aim of provide financial redress , which be full , fair and prompt . " he also conclude that the majority of people who have accept offer under the group litigation order scheme " will have do so because , for they , the offer be full and fair . " that say , Sir Wyn make some understandable criticism , especially of the Horizon shortfall scheme , which we will need to study closely and address . we inherit a compensation process that be widely see as too slow , adversarial and legalistic . well over four year after the first High Court case expose the scandal , only 2 , 500 postmaster have have final settlement . there be clearly significant gap in the compensation process , and many victim have not come forward . indeed , there be no compensation scheme in place for those postmaster whose conviction have be overturn by Parliament . a year ago , the Government have pay £ 236 million in redress . we have now quadruple that to nearly £ 1 . 1 billion . we have launch a compensation scheme for postmaster who have have their conviction overturn — the Horizon conviction redress scheme — and have merge the Post Office ' s compensation arrangement for overturn conviction into it . through the Post Office , we have deliver a £ 75 , 000 fix - sum offer to over 4 , 200 victim who opt for it . we have also launch an independent process to allow people to appeal their HSS settlement or offer . that should provide , as Sir Wyn say in his report , " an opportunity to put right any failure to deliver redress which be full and fair " for HSS victim . we have also begin discussion with Fujitsu on their contribution to the cost of the scandal . as the House know , and as Sir Wyn ' s report underline , there be still a lot more to do . I know that the postmaster who have yet to agree final compensation be frustrate with the delay ; so be I . we have consult regularly with the Horizon compensation advisory board and other on what more we can do to improve redress . Sir Wyn ' s recommendation be very helpful in that regard . two of his recommendation address issue that we have already be work on across Government and with the advisory board . I can confirm that we accept Sir Wyn ' s recommendation that claimant should be able to bank the good offer that they get from the GLO process and that it should not be put at risk if they choose to go to the independent panel . secondly , we will provide redress for family member of postmaster who suffer because of the scandal . I have meet the group Lost Chances for the child of sub - postmaster , which have campaign with considerable courage on this issue . Sir Wyn rightly recognise that design a suitable compensation scheme for family member raise some very difficult issue . none the less , we want to look after those family member who suffer most — meet Sir Wyn ' s recommendation that we should give " redress to close family member of those most adversely affect by Horizon . " give those challenge , we will now discuss the detail of how a scheme should be run with claimant ' lawyer , the independent advisory board and the Lost Chances group . it will be open to close family member of exist Horizon claimant who themselves suffer personal injury , include psychological distress , because of their relative ' suffer . other than in exceptional circumstance , we will need contemporaneous write evidence of that personal injury . there be some fundamental lesson to be learn , to which Sir Wyn point , about how compensation follow wrongdoing on this scale should be deliver in future . in particular , the Post Office should never have be allow to run it , decision on funding should have be make much more quickly , and it should not have need an ITV drama to stimulate action to overturn hundred of unjust conviction . we can not now turn back the clock to fix those fundamental mistake . we must instead address two challenge . the first challenge be to make sure that if there be ever another terrible scandal like this one — we all sincerely hope there be not — the victim do not need to bring a traumatic court case to expose it . the second challenge , if another such scandal happen , be that the Government must be set up to offer trust redress from the very start . Sir Wyn argue that there should be a stand public body to deliver redress in any further scandal . I have a considerable amount of sympathy with that argument , but clearly we need to analyse the option fully before we commit to it . we will reflect on how to address those twin challenge and will bring back our conclusion to the House . we can never properly recompense a person for be wrongly deny their freedom , for the humiliation of be wrongly accuse or for see their love one in profound distress or bad , and neither can we recompense they for their good reputation be take from they . I can not assuage the anger of the victim , nor will the anger that I feel on their behalf ever be assuage , but we be determined to do more on redress and beyond , and to do it quickly , to give more of the victim of this appalling scandal at least a measure of the peace that they so rightly deserve . I commend Sir Wyn ' s report to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . we welcome the release of volume 1 of the Post Office Horizon inquiry final report and I put on record my thank to Sir Wyn Williams and the inquiry team for all the work that they have do , alongside all those who give evidence . this inquiry lay bare one of the great miscarriage of justice in modern british history . volume 1 focus on redress and the human impact of the Horizon scandal , which have be evolve since 2000 . the human impact be particularly devastating , with the report reveal that at least 13 people may have take their own life as a result of the Post Office Horizon IT scandal . it also recognise that family member have also suffer from this miscarriage of justice . even though , as the Minister say , we can never recompense a person properly for this miscarriage , I be sure the whole House will want to ensure that the victim be fully compensate by the scheme , and I would like to put on the record my tribute to the work of my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , who set up this process of redress . the report have recommend that the Government and / or the Department , and where appropriate the Post Office and Fujitsu , shall provide a write response to Sir Wyn ' s recommendation by 10 October . can the Minister confirm that the Government will be able to say by 10 October whether they will accept all 19 of the report ' s recommendation ? the report detail that there be still much to be do to ensure justice for the victim , so who and how will those responsible be hold answerable for the year of denial and suffering ? this be not simply a technical failure ; it be a failure of oversight , governance and accountability . the report find that the Post Office and Fujitsu know , or at the very least they should have know , that the Horizon IT system have fault . the sub - postmaster be also describe " as victim of wholly unacceptable behaviour " by the two company . Sir Wyn have state that there be still more than 3 , 000 claim to resolve and that there have be egregious delay in compensation . will the Minister therefore update the House on the most recent status of the compensation scheme ? what step be he take to address these concern , and how be the Government ensure that full , fair and fast compensation be deliver without further bureaucracy or delay ? will the Minister update we on what action be be take in relation to Fujitsu , which be still be award Government contract ? Fujitsu say that it would wait until the inquiry report to offer compensation , so will the Minister confirm that there be now nothing prevent Fujitsu from pay interim compensation ? will he also confirm that it will be make clear how much he believe Fujitsu should contribute to the redress scheme ? in the spending review , the Government allocate £ 86 million from its transformation fund for the Post Office , specifically earmark to support investment plan , include replace the exist Horizon computer system . will the Minister update the House on the progress of secure a new computer system for the Post Office and whether that system will replace the Horizon system in its entirety ? what assessment have he make of the early Capture accounting software and its legacy of problem ? finally , to move on from this protract miscarriage , will the Minister confirm when we will see the much anticipated Green Paper on the future of the post office network and how the public can have their say on that consultation ? the time for half measure be over . justice delay be justice deny , and those affect by this scandal deserve nothing less than the full force of the Government ' s commitment to truth , reform and redress . taxpayer also deserve to know how much minister think Fujitsu should pay to resolve these terrible wrong . I thank the hon . Lady for her comment and question . she be right to say in her opening remark about this be the great miscarriage of justice in our country ' s history . the responsibility be therefore on we all to do everything we can to make sure the victim receive full and fair compensation , and to ensure that there be never a repeat . the hon . Lady specifically challenge I on the question of the 10 October deadline that Sir Wyn Williams have put in place . I can confirm that we be determined to meet that deadline . it be particularly important that we do so , as some of his recommendation concern the ongoing delivery of the Horizon compensation scheme and we do not want , inadvertently or not , to delay or hold back any of those claim . the hon . Lady rightly give I the opportunity to again pay tribute to the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) for his work when he be the Post Office Minister . without question , we would be even far behind without the considerable amount of work and effort that he put in . there be many other in the House who have campaign long and hard on behalf of the sub - postmaster , include the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) , who I see in his place , and my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , who chair the Business and Trade Committee . the hon . Lady ask who and how will those responsible be hold to account . she know that Sir Wyn Williams be due to publish the second part of his report , which focus on those very question . we will consider carefully what he have to say about that when we receive his report . I suspect that she already know that the Metropolitan police be lead an investigation into whether criminal responsibility be at play . More than 100 police officer be work on that investigation and they have identify a number of individual of interest . we will see what they do with regard to those individual in due course . as the hon . Lady and the House will understand , Ministers be not in any way involve in such decision . what further step have we take to deliver and speed up compensation ? the hon . Lady will be aware that we have issue the opportunity for sub - postmaster who apply to the Horizon shortfall scheme and who want to accept a fix - sum payment of £ 75 , 000 to do so . we have put in place an appeal process to try to give those who feel they have not receive a fair offer to date a chance to get full and fair redress . there be particular challenge in the Horizon shortfall scheme . if I be honest , it be the scheme that I worry about the most , not least because there be 1 , 700 case in which there do not appear to be any evidence of shortfall . that do not mean that there be no shortfall ; it mean that , at this stage , we do not have evidence of what those shortfall be . as the House would expect , I have go back to the Post Office and make it clear that we want it to reinvestigate , to see whether evidence can be find in as many of those case as possible . we be look very carefully at what we can do about the rest . on Fujitsu , we will need to see Sir Wyn ' s final report to understand fully the degree of Fujitsu ' s culpability . I have make it clear to Fujitsu that we think it should bring forward an interim compensation payment , and I hope that it will see the report today and recognise the need to do that . the hon . Lady also ask I about the Green Paper . we hope to publish it very shortly . one of the issue that it will consider be the future of the Post Office ' s IT system , because we certainly need to move on from the past and Horizon . we will set out in a bit more detail at that point what work we be do in that regard . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . on behalf of our Committee , I welcome this report from Sir Wyn Williams . as Jo Hamilton have say , it unmask the full horror of what be do to the sub - postmaster , include the truth that at least 13 suicide result from what the Post Office do to innocent people . Sir Wyn Williams echo almost all the recommendation our Committee have now make three time to Ministers . there be 3 , 000 claim still outstanding , and there be , in Sir Wyn ' s word , " egregious delay " at every stage of the claim process , so do the Minister now accept that , as we have recommend and Sir Wyn have recommend , up - front legal advice need to be provide to victim ? do the Minister also accept that we must now , once and for all , strip the Post Office of any role in the Horizon shortfall scheme ? will the Minister commit to a date for get rid of the Post Office altogether from that redress scheme ? today ' s report make it clear that at least 160 people in the Post Office know exactly what be go on , and some of they come to this House and mislead member of this House not once but twice , so be it now the moment for we to commence contempt of Parliament proceeding against the leader of the Post Office who mislead we so badly ? I want to take this opportunity again to pay tribute to the work of the Business and Trade Committee under my right hon . friend ' s chairmanship . as he have say , there have be a series of recommendation from his Committee , and I recognise that we have not always agree with all those recommendation . for I , the question about whether to offer legal advice to Horizon shortfall scheme claimant have always be a finely balanced judgment . I say that because it have always be clear that the victim want a fast route to secure compensation without the involvement of lawyer , and the fact that so many have accept the fix - sum payment be an indication of that appetite . nevertheless , I recognise that Sir Wyn Williams have give we a clear steer on that particular question , and we will consider that extremely carefully and very quickly . on the question of whether the Post Office should be strip completely of responsibility for the Horizon shortfall scheme , there be no doubt that if we be start afresh , the Post Office would have no responsibility for any of the compensation scheme . when I look at the question of whether to start over again in the delivery of the compensation scheme and at who should be responsible for their delivery , I recognise that to change completely the process as they have be set up would see further delay in get compensation to the victim . I say gently to my right hon . friend that Sir Wyn Williams have not say today that the Post Office should not be involve in the Horizon shortfall scheme ' s delivery . we have be clear that we need to take away responsibility for the most complex case , and we have set up the appeal scheme to do so . give the number who have come forward with appeal on the Horizon shortfall scheme , I hope that we will be able to give confidence to those people that they will have a chance to get full and fair redress . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for give I advance sight of his statement . the Horizon scandal be an appalling miscarriage of justice , and today ' s report highlight the extent of the human suffering that it have cause . read the story of some of the victim in this report be truly heartbreaking , and it could not be clear that far too many people ' s life have be irreparably affect . no scandal of this kind can be allow to happen ever again . we warmly welcome the publication of the first volume of the independent inquiry ' s report , which have the full support of the Liberal Democrats , and I sincerely hope that it will focus Ministers ' mind in get victim the compensation and justice that they deserve as soon as possible . it be shocking that victim of this scandal have have to wait this long for their rightful compensation and justice . the Government need to move at speed and bring an end to this unacceptable delay . although we welcome the promise of full compensation , the liberal Democrats will continue to hold the Government to account in order to ensure that victim get the payment they deserve as quickly as possible , so will the Minister confirm that the Government will implement the recommendation of today ' s report in full ? will they set out a timeline for when all victim can expect to receive full and fair compensation ? what conversation have the Government have with the Post Office and Fujitsu about restorative justice in the light of Sir Wyn ' s recommendation ? lastly , when will the Government finally introduce legislation on a full duty of candour , for which sub - postmaster and the victim of so many other scandal and disaster have so long call ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s comment , and I welcome the challenge to the Government to go far and fast on deliver compensation , not just from she and her party , but from across the House . she ask a similar question to that from the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , who speak for the official Opposition , on whether we would accept the recommendation that Sir Wyn have set out today . as I make clear in my opening remark , we be very sympathetic to all his recommendation . indeed , I be able to confirm today that we have accept two of his recommendation : to provide compensation for family member and to move on the question of the good offer . I hope that give the House confidence that we will meet the deadline that Sir Wyn Williams have impose on we . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) rightly join all side of the House in challenge Fujitsu to recognise its responsibility . I hope it will read Sir Wyn ' s report and conclusion afresh and recognise that it now need to make an interim payment . restorative justice be one of the significant recommendation in Sir Wyn ' s list , and we will consider that very carefully . there be a series of option as to how one might deliver restorative justice , and there would clearly need to be consultation with the victim . we will think through the different step that we need to take in that regard . I add my support for the introduction of a redress scheme for close family member . on the Business and Trade Committee , and in my constituency surgery , I have hear from family member , and it be clear that the trauma of this injustice have be pass down through generation . can the Minister share any further detail on how he expect the scheme to operate , and more importantly , who will be responsible for oversee the scheme and any action take in regard to family affect by the Capture system ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s work on the Business and Trade Committee and more generally in push the Government to do more on full and fair compensation . on the question of family member , Sir Wyn make it clear in his report not only that offer a compensation scheme for family member be the right thing to do , but that there will be significant design challenge in how such a scheme be put together . we will work with the independent Horizon compensation advisory board , with claimant ' lawyer and with the campaign group Lost Chances on the design of such a scheme . my hon . Friend briefly mention Capture , as do the hon . member for West Worcestershire . we be in the process of work with a number of the victim of the Capture scandal and their legal representative to design an effective compensation process for they . there be again some significant challenge around the availability of evidence , give that the use of the Capture software be before the introduction of the Horizon computer system , and so the amount of evidence available be significantly less . none the less , we be work at pace on the design of such a scheme . as a member of the Business and Trade Committee , I be aghast to find that the Capture system predate Horizon and go as far back as 1992 ; so we be 33 year on . the Minister have touch on the difficulty of get evidence from that time . have he make any assessment of how many victim might be involve in this Capture scheme ? it look as though it might be a burgeon scandal on the scale of the Horizon scheme . I thank the hon . gentleman for his work on the Business and Trade Committee , too . he give I the opportunity to pay tribute to the noble Lord Beamish , who campaign for a considerable period of time to bring the House ' s attention to the issue of Capture sub - postmaster . no definitive number exist of how many Post Office branch use Capture . there be a rough estimate that some 13 . 5 % of all Post Office agency branch — roughly 18 , 000 between 1992 and 2000 — use Capture before the Horizon system be roll out in 1999 . give the lack of evidence , we be very much try to learn the lesson from some of the Horizon compensation scheme in the way in which we design the Capture scheme . we will take forward 150 case almost as a pilot process and will take stock at the end of that process to see what further work and further tweak to the design of the scheme we need to make , so that we can deliver fair redress to all those victim of the Post office scandal , too . Sir Wyn rightly highlight the role Fujitsu must play in restorative justice . I remind the shadow Minister , the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , and the House that I ask the previous Government to pause and review all Fujitsu contract , which they refuse to do . I thank the Minister for all his work on the matter and for the meeting he have kindly have with I . do he agree with I and Sir Wyn that it be time that Fujitsu contribute to the compensation and that it be also time we stop the billion of pound of Government contract that it continue to be award , include its bid for HMRC ' s trader support service , which be worth £ 355 million alone ? I look forward to a response from the Minister ' s office to the letter I send he highlight this yesterday . my hon . friend have be one of those who campaign consistently over a long period of time for justice for sub - postmaster , in particular for her constituent Chris Head . I hope he and she will recognise that one of the recommendation in Sir Wyn ' s report that we confirm today we will accept be in no small part due to Mr Head and her campaign on that particular question . my hon . friend be absolutely right that there be a moral obligation on Fujitsu to contribute to the cost of the scandal . that have be clear for a long time . I welcome the fact that Fujitsu have acknowledge that and have begin discussion with the Government . Sir Wyn ' s report today far underline the case for Fujitsu to make an interim payment towards the cost of the scandal . on her point more generally about the role of Fujitsu , there be no question but that Fujitsu want to move out of responsibility for the Horizon system , and I suspect we all want Fujitsu to move out of work with the Post Office . none the less , we need Fujitsu at the moment to continue to maintain the Horizon system , which be key to the work of Post Office branch up and down the country in all our community , while we work at pace to put in place a well system go forward . this Minister well know that , across the House , many colleague for year now have raise deep concern about what happen . I raise it myself on 10 June 2020 , 5 October 2020 , 27 April 2021 and 15 December 2021 . many colleague year and year ago be cite the monstrous injustice and grotesque breach of human right and civil liberty of our fellow citizen , but it take the ITV drama of 1 January 2024 for the earth to move . that rather beg the question : what be the point of Parliament and its elect representative ? be it not about time that the institution of the state get out the handcuff and hold the tax - fund villain who perpetrate this monstrous injustice to full and total account ? I commend the right hon . gentleman for his campaigning on this issue . I know that he have continue to push different government and different Post Office Ministers on the issue around this scandal , and I have no doubt that he will continue to do so . he be absolutely right that the people responsible for this scandal need to be hold to account . Sir Wyn ' s further report will lay bare who be responsible , and the work of the police be ongoing . as I say early , 100 police officer be work on this case . they be in touch with sub - postmaster representative and have identify a series of people who be of interest to their inquiry . as he will understand , Ministers be rightly not involve in those specific discussion , but we be watch with great interest the progress of that police inquiry . we will certainly look to act on the recommendation that Sir Wyn make when the final part of his report come out . I thank the Minister for his statement . this scandal be a sorry chapter in our country ' s history , and I hope that those who be affect be compensate quickly and fairly . I be sure the Minister will know that this scandal disproportionately affect people from black , asian and minority ethnic background . of those who be prosecute , 40 % be from BME background , but I do not feel the report recognise the sensitivity . I recognise that the report can not address every single angle , but I feel that the way BME people be affect disproportionately could have be highlight more . what will he do to address the disparity as he move forward in address this scandal ? my hon . friend raise a significant issue , and one that I have no doubt have a bearing on the way in which the scandal unfold . she will understand that for a formal view on who be responsible and what go wrong , we need to wait for the final report from Sir Wyn Williams . but it be quite clear that a significant number of sub - postmaster from an ethnic minority be still wait for compensation , as indeed a generally significant number of postmaster be wait for compensation . we need to ensure that all those from an ethnic minority receive compensation , as equally we must give priority to every single person who have yet to receive compensation . the Government have be tell routinely by organisation such as Scottish Postmasters for Justice and Redress that compensation for victim of the Horizon scandal be take too long and that the application process be akin to the trauma of a second trial for victim . we have also hear today that Sir Wyn Williams ' report illustrate that victim continue to face an " unnecessarily adversarial attitude " from the Post Office and that the UK Government continue to drag their foot in offer full and swift redress . give that the Minister previously stand at the Dispatch Box and say that " justice delay be justice deny " , — [ Official Report , 18 December 2024 ; Vol . 759 , c . 373 . ] and give the human toll of the scandal reveal today , will this Government finally and immediately end these obstructive process so that redress can be tackle straight on without wait for the second volume ? there be no question but that the compensation process have take far too long . the scandal could have be stop a lot early . everybody who be a victim of the scandal should have have compensation — certainly by the time we take office . have say that , we have set out to speed up the delivery of compensation . we have quadruple the amount of compensation pay out to victim of the scandal . we have move at pace to plug some of the obvious gap in the compensation process . I completely accept the challenge make by the hon . Gentleman , by other across the House , and indeed by sub - postmaster who have yet to receive compensation , that there be still a lot more to do . I thank the Minister for his statement and for his powerful word , but the publication of the report confirm the heartbreaking scale of the human impact of this shocking miscarriage of justice . the concealment and cover - up of the Horizon scandal follow a familiar pattern . institution deceive and distort because they put their reputation before truth and justice , as we have see before in the infected blood scandal , the nuclear test veteran scandal and , of course , the Hillsborough disaster , among many other . the law that bear that disaster ' s name would end the culture of cover - up that we have hear about today . do the Minister agree that the report show why the Government must honour their pledge and promise to enact the Hillsborough law in full and end the culture of cover - up , which do so much damage to the innocent victim and their family , and to the country ' s reputation ? I have absolutely no doubt that we need to see , in full , who be responsible for this disaster and why . Sir Wyn Williams ' s work on that be critical . we await his final report , which will look at what happen , why , and who be responsible . that transparency will be hugely important to help the Post Office , and the country as a whole , to learn lesson from this appalling scandal . if we need to introduce measure to ensure that the Post Office be never in such a position again , we will certainly look to bring they forward . the Post Office Horizon scandal have often be compare with the contaminated blood disaster . by coincidence , this very afternoon the relevant all - party parliamentary group , lead by the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) , have be have a meeting with the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . even if the Minister do not go all the way with Sir Wyn Williams ' suggestion that there might be a stand body responsible for deliver compensation , will the Government look at the experience of the compensation body for that scandal rather than allow separate disaster to be compensate for in separate stovepipe arrangement ? to be clear , Sir Wyn Williams ' recommendation of a stand body to deliver compensation be very much to ensure that if there be ever a future disaster on this scale — and we all hope that there be not — the Government be well set up to respond to it . he have not specifically suggest that we transfer into such a body the responsibility for the delivery of compensation scheme at this stage , because do so would undoubtedly slow down the process . I think that there be parallel with the infected blood inquiry , but there be also difference . we need to learn lesson on the delivery of compensation from the infected blood scandal , the Post Office scandal and other scandal that come before . in that regard , the National Audit Office publish important work last summer , which will certainly help to inform our judgment about the case for such a stand body . I associate myself with the comment of the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) , about the involvement of the Post Office — I hope the Minister have check and balance in place to test what information it provide , because it clearly can not be trust . my question be about Fujitsu , which stay quiet while sub - postmaster , include a former constituent of mine , go to prison . the Minister say that the Government be in negotiation with Fujitsu , which sound like Fujitsu will not pay the compensation that it should . will he say more about who will be the final arbiter in determine how much Fujitsu should pay in this scandal , which it be fundamentally at the root of ? I take this opportunity to commend my hon . friend for his consistent campaigning on this issue . he be absolutely right to underline the moral responsibility that Fujitsu have to contribute to the cost of the scandal . I welcome the fact that Fujitsu have accept that it have such a moral obligation . I have make it clear to Fujitsu that I think it should bring forward an interim payment , and discussion with it have begin , as I say , but it will be important that we receive the final report from Sir Wyn Williams to understand properly the scale of Fujitsu ' s responsibility go forward , as compare with the responsibility of other player in this appalling scandal . I be absolutely clear that Fujitsu do have a clear responsibility . it could begin to act now , and I hope that it do so . a constituent who I have be represent for two year be unfairly dismiss as a result of the Horizon scandal . I appreciate the effort that the Minister and his predecessor have put into this matter . the report make it absolutely clear that the compensation system be too cumbersome and complicated for many people , and the Government have say that they will do everything they can to speed it up , but some people be wait not only for compensation but for recognition of the injustice that be do to they . what will the Minister do to reassure those people and work on their behalf to get they the recognition that will lead to compensation ? the hon . Lady make an important and significant point and give I the opportunity to comment on that particular constituency case , which she and I have discuss a couple of time . she be absolutely right when she allude to the fact that there be victim of the scandal who have not yet come forward or , perhaps for a number of reason , put in compensation claim . I hope that the publication of Sir Wyn ' s report , and his comment — the criticism and challenge to the Government on go far , as well as the reassurance that he have offer — will give those who have not yet put in a claim the confidence to do so . on the specific case that she know very well and have discuss with I , I be determined to move forward . I have take a number of step to do so , and I will come back to she . the Minister plainly agree that this injustice have go on too long . early today , I speak to Janet Skinner , one of the postmaster whose life be wreck in 2007 when she serve nine month in prison after wrongful conviction . she have spend 18 year since then struggle to get compensation and be still battle for it now , force to wade through endless paperwork and a cruel bureaucratic maze . in her own word , the compensation process have be " hard than anything I ' ve ever have to do before — and I ' ve be to prison . " that be what she say to I today . Sir Wyn ' s report be welcome . I hope it ignite a fire under the Minister , although I know that he be committed to solve problem like Janet ' s in month , not year . can he give I the undertaking that he will solve these problem in month , not year ? on the right hon . Gentleman ' s direct challenge , I certainly want to do that . I completely share his view that every victim who still have not have compensation have wait too long , and that I in particular , and the whole House , have a responsibility to keep up the pressure to get full and fair compensation for those victim as quickly as possible . the right hon . Gentleman will recognise that we have make some progress in the last 12 month : we have quadruple the amount of compensation that have be pay out and set up new compensation scheme to begin to address some of the obvious gap . however , I completely accept the challenge that he , and perhaps Janet Skinner , pose : that we need to go far and fast . I also welcome Sir Wyn ' s report . it remind we of the cynical , dishonest and illegal behaviour of Post Office and Fujitsu official , who cause so much misery to so many people who be do an honest job and be wrongly accuse . the Minister rightly say that he be determined to move on and get redress for those victim , but as long as Post Office official have anything to do with this compensation scheme , I believe that his honest aim will be thwart . last week I meet with four postmaster in Northern Ireland , who tell I that despite request for documentation — some date back to January — it be still not forthcoming . it be be drip - fed , which mean that when new information be seek , they go back to the beginning of the 40 - day period . even when forensic economist have look at their claim , in some case they be discount by up to 90 % . I can only say that those be obstructionist tactic . as long as those who still believe that they do nothing wrong be in charge , we will not achieve the objective of quick redress . I recognise and understand why there be considerable scepticism across the House about the Post Office continue to have any role in the delivery of any part of the compensation process . as I say , when I first come into this role , I look very carefully at whether we should essentially start over and take the Post Office out of the compensation process . I be persuade that if we do that , we would significantly delay still far the delivery of compensation to the victim . Sir Wyn Williams make a similar point today while make a series of recommendation to Government to go far and fast , in particular on the Horizon shortfall scheme . as I have allude to , I be extremely sympathetic to his 19 recommendation . there be some that we need to look at in more detail before I come back to the House and , particularly , to Sir Wyn . the right hon . Gentleman reference conversation that he have have with a number of sub - postmaster in his constituency , or in Northern Ireland more generally . if he want to bring those case to my attention outside this session , I would be very happy to look at they . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish to make a brief point of order follow the sad death of Lord Norman Tebbit last night . I feel particularly touch by it because I serve with he in Parliament between 1983 and 1992 , and I suppose I be one of the last Thatcherites leave stand here . to we , he be an icon of everything we believe in about small government and deregulation . he be the original brexiteer and the original campaigner against woke . he have an extraordinary ability with word . he come from humble background and sum up everything that we believe in by pull himself up and achieve greatness . I do not want to end on a political note ; what I really want to end on be a personal note . I know that he have a reputation as a hard - hit politician , but above all he be a supremely kind man . he be kind to we young member of Parliament . when Mrs Thatcher resign , I remember sit in the Tea Room and ask he if he would stand as leader of the conservative party . to my regret , he feel that he could not . the reason why be those awful event in the bombing of the Grand Hotel in 1984 . he show tremendous courage and stoicism . above all , although he lead our party to victory as chairman in the 1987 election , he refuse high office because he want to look after his wife Margaret . he devote his whole life to she in term of love and devotion as after those terrible event she be in a wheelchair for the rest of her life . it be a great honour and delight in this short point of order to pay tribute to my friend Lord Norman Tebbit . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his touching tribute , which be now on the record . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I start work as special adviser to Norman Tebbit in the Department of Trade and Industry on the Monday morning after the Brighton bomb . for those first few week , I go to visit he with member of his private office in Stoke Mandeville hospital . the reason why he be in that specialist unit be that , while he be badly injure , he want to be nearby to his wife . my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) be completely right : he give tremendous service to this country , but he feel that his first duty have to be to look after his wife . it be a terrific loss to my party and to the country when he feel that he be no long able to serve in government because of the need to care for Margaret . have that not happen , he might well have become Prime Minister . he be a remarkable person whom we will miss greatly . I be delighted that my right hon . friend have help to put his service on the record . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his touching tribute . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I meet Lord Tebbit only shortly after he have step down from this House , but even at that stage of his career he still have the inherent kindness and commitment to come to my constituency to support a relatively new Member of this House . courage and commitment really be what encapsulate his character . he prove that when serve his country in the inherently dangerous role of a Royal Air Force pilot , and he prove it far in achieve something that Prime Ministers alone might have fail to have achieve in tackle the abuse of trade union power by unrepresentative militant . trade union be much more representative of their membership today thank to what he do . as we have hear , Lord Tebbit prove his courage and commitment finally in his devotion to his wife , who be grievously injure as a result of a terrorist campaign , the aftermath of which our legal system to this very day still find difficult to cope with . altogether , he serve his country magnificently , and he be a role model of integrity and courage that people can admire , even if they do not necessarily subscribe to everything in which he believe and for which he campaign . I thank all right hon . member for their touching tribute . Special Educational Needs and Disabilities ( training in Schools ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the evaluation of training about special educational need and disability in initial teacher education ; to require training about special education need and disability for certain person work in school as part of their continue professional development ; and for connected purpose . may I first remark on how touch the tribute we just hear be ? every child deserve an inclusive education in an environment that enable they to thrive . every child should have teacher and support staff who understand their need and have the professional capacity and skill to care for and teach each child . I propose this Bill because sadly that be not the experience of many child with special educational need live in my constituency . child in Barking and Dagenham have be let down because the national SEND system be break . across the country , parent feel hopeless and teacher be overwhelmed . last night , my constituency neighbour and hon . friend the Member for Dagenham and Rainham ( Margaret Mullane ) secure an important debate in this House on SEND . she highlight that request for education , health and care plan in Barking and Dagenham double in 2022 — an increase that be four time the national average . I know that improve the life chance of child , regardless of their background or need , be central to the Labour Government ' s mission . however , we can not achieve it without fix special educational need support . as my Bill set out , require compulsory SEND training for teacher and teaching staff would provide they with the skill they need to educate our child . initial teacher education and continued professional development programme have no dedicated SEND training . SEND seminar and session be weave into the exist curriculum but fail to give teacher the expertise they need to support SEND child . the depth and practical application of exist training be often too variable , and many teacher feel underprepared . teacher require professional expertise to effectively provide wraparound support for all child , but I be afraid child with SEND be instead force into an overstretched EHCP process manage by overburden local authority because mainstream school support have be strip away after 14 year of conservative cut . when I visit school and meet parent in my constituency — I recently hold a coffee morning attend by more than 100 people — I hear the same thing over and over again : early help make a big difference . early help can happen only with appropriately train teacher with the skill to identify child in need . the evidence overwhelmingly show that ensure a child receive speech and language support , for example , would reduce behavioural issue in child with SEND , make a mainstream set more successful for many child who might otherwise be exclude from school . SEND child be five time more likely to be exclude and have some of the wide attainment gap of any demographic , impact on earn potential and overall life chance . it do not have to be that way . with more than 50 % of student with an EHCP be in mainstream school , the current system be let down child who have special educational need and disability . school be try their good , but the truth be that teacher feel ill - equipped to provide support for child with SEND . one teacher in Barking and Dagenham tell I about the four - hour training seminar on SEND that they attend , but that be their only training , follow by a " get on with it " attitude from the education sector . the lack of training mean that well - mean teacher inevitably create an exclusive education environment , result in nine out of 10 child with SEND be leave behind . this be a two - tier education system , work against our child who have the great need . early intervention must be at the core of the Government ' s SEND strategy , but it will not be successful if it be leave only to special educational need co - ordinator and teach assistant , and this Bill seek to address that . for most school , a dedicated senco on the school ' s senior leadership team be a nice to have , rather than a must have . parent — certainly those I have meet in my constituency — be often leave wonder who they can turn to as they fight to get the support that their child deserve . one parent in my constituency tell I about the exhausting decade they have have fighting for an EHCP for their son , who have autism . after five year of school become too difficult a challenge for her son once he start secondary school , in 2020 her little boy be refer by the NHS to neurology . it take until 2024 for a doctor to confirm that he also have epilepsy , which be cause brain seizure result in short absence . the point here , which the little boy ' s mother make to I , be that her child be clearly struggle at school for year , find it difficult to focus . that be apparent before the 10 - year fight to secure an ehcp for her son , which she only manage to do towards the end of his time at secondary school . this little boy be in mainstream school for 10 year , be teach by teacher with inadequate SEND training . his mother feel that teacher equip with well skill and training on SEND would have identify her child ' s need soon , and could have help he early . SEND support for child be a complicated picture that require input from different agency , and parent must always be at the heart of any discussion or decision about SEND support for their child . that be especially true for the many child who will , and do , fall short of the statutory duty to secure an EHCP . with the lack of specialist support or training for teach staff in mainstream school , those child be too often leave unsupported . of course , for some child , access to specialist SEND school be the most appropriate fit ; however , the majority of SEND child be in mainstream school . we must therefore recognise that our school should fundamentally shift to be well equip to support child with SEND , with teacher who be well train , because SEND child deserve the opportunity to succeed in our mainstream school . be a good teacher , or good at any of the profession that look after and teach our child , take a special kind of person . the responsibility these people hold be great than their responsibility to any individual child ; they be help raise and educate the next generation in our community , and shape our society — a society in which I want everyone to thrive and to which I want everyone to contribute , include those with SEND . this Bill support teacher to do their job properly . they deserve adequate training , enable they to deliver the early help that child with SEND need . I ask hon . member from across the House for their support for this Bill , so that we can begin to fix the broken SEND system in this country . question put and agree to . order , that Nesil Caliskan , Anna Dixon , Chris Ward , Chris Kane , Mr Clive Betts , Danny Beales , Daniel Francis , Dawn Butler , Jen Craft , Lloyd Hatton and Sarah Hall present the Bill . Nesil Caliskan accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 12 September , and to be print ( Bill 281 ) . football Governance Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Bill , as amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 1 - alcohol at football ground " within one year of the passing of this Act the Secretary of State must consult on lift the ban on consume alcohol in view of the pitch in the top five tier of the man ' s game in England . " — ( Mr French . ) bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — duty not to promote or engage in advertising and sponsorship relate to gambling — " a regulated club or english football competition must not promote or engage in advertising or sponsorship relate to gambling . " this new clause prevent regulate club and competition from promote or engage in gambling advertising or sponsorship . new clause 3 — free to air coverage — " ( 1 ) the Independent Football Regulator must require that every season — ( a ) at least ten Premier League football match , ( b ) the League Cup Final , and ( c ) the Championship , League One and League two playoff final be make available for live broadcast on free - to - air television channel in the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) the match must include a representative selection across different club and time in the season , subject to reasonable consideration of scheduling and broadcast logistic . ( 3 ) in this section ' free - to - air television ' mean a service that satisfy the qualifying condition of such a service define by Section 2 of the 1996 Communications Act . " this new clause would mandate a minimum of ten Premier League match , the League Cup Final and the Championship , League One and League two playoff final on free - to - air television channel . new clause 4 — Fan representation : mandatory golden share — " ( 1 ) a licensed club must , as a condition of hold a licence under section 15 , issue a non - transferable golden share to a recognise Supporters ' trust or equivalent democratic fan organisation . ( 2 ) the golden share must confer on its holder the right to veto any proposal by the club to — ( a ) relocate the club ' s home ground outside its current local authority area , ( b ) change the club ' s name , ( c ) materially alter the club ' s primary colour or badge , or ( d ) enter into or withdraw from any competition not sanction by the Football Association , the Premier League , or the English Football League . ( 3 ) a licensed club must — ( a ) consult the holder of the golden share on any material change to the club ' s ownership , governance , or strategic direction , ( b ) provide the holder with access to relevant financial and governance information reasonably require to fulfil its function , and ( c ) facilitate structure and regular engagement between the club and the holder of the golden share . ( 4 ) the Regulator must monitor compliance with this section and may — ( a ) issue guidance to club and Supporters ' trust on the operation of the golden share , ( b ) impose licence condition or financial penalty for non - compliance , and ( c ) take enforcement action where a club fail to uphold the right associate with the golden share . ( 5 ) in this section — ( a ) ' supporter ' trust ' mean a formally constitute , democratic , not - for - profit organisation that be recognise by the Regulator as represent the interest of a club ' s supporter ; ( b ) ' golden share ' mean a special share or equivalent legal instrument issue to a Supporters ' trust , entitle its holder to the right and protection describe in this section . " this new clause would give fan a veto on club proposal , exercise through a recognise Supporters ' trust or equivalent democratic fan body . new clause 5 — protection of asset of regulate club — " ( 1 ) where any of the follow asset belong to a regulated club , the asset must not be remove from the club ' s ownership or use as collateral for a secured loan — ( a ) any stadium , ( b ) any training facility , ( c ) any trophy , ( d ) any car park , ( e ) any hotel . ( 2 ) but subsection 1 do not apply to a car park or a hotel where — ( a ) the regulated club can demonstrate to the IFR ' s satisfaction that the asset be cause financial loss or pose a material risk to the club ' s financial sustainability , and ( b ) the IFR have provide prior write approval for the disposal of the asset or the use of the asset as collateral . ( 3 ) where the current owner of a regulated club own any asset list in subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) to ( c ) , the owner may not sell the club unless the owner have insert the asset into the club ' s ownership structure . " this new clause would ensure that the club asset list above be recognise as the inalienable property of the club rather than the club ' s owner . new clause 6 — financial abuse , mismanagement or fraud : protection etc — " ( 1 ) the IFR must , in any strategy it publish , set out measure aim at achieve the financial abuse , mismanagement and fraud objective . ( 2 ) measure to be set out under subsection ( 1 ) must include oversight of — ( a ) robust education for relevant player on matter relate to financial abuse , mismanagement and fraud , ( b ) industry wide standard aim at relevant player in relation to those matter , and ( c ) an equitable system of support and redress for relevant player where they have be affect by those matter . ( 3 ) in this section , a ' relevant player ' mean a current or former player in English football who — ( a ) have be a victim of financial abuse , mismanagement , or fraud , or ( b ) be at risk of become a victim of financial abuse , mismanagement , or fraud . " new clause 7 — human right and modern slavery consideration — " ( 1 ) when consider whether a person ( ' a ' ) satisfy the requirement in section 26 ( 7 ) ( c ) , the Regulator shall have regard to ( among other thing ) — ( a ) whether a have be complicit in any egregious or consistent violation of international human right law , whether of any international human right treaty , customary law , or other instrument , ( b ) whether a have be convict , caution or reprimand or complicit in any egregious or consistent violation of domestic human right legislation , include breach provision in the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 or equivalent national legislation , ( c ) whether a have be subject to a Slavery and Trafficking Prevention Order , ( d ) whether a have be find liable in a civil claim relate to a human right violation , ( e ) whether a have be convict of an offence , caution or reprimand for fail to comply with their human right and modern slavery reporting and due diligence obligation under applicable domestic legislation , ( f ) any representation make by A or the club in accordance with the notice . ( 2 ) in subsection ( 1 ) — ( a ) where a be a body corporate or other non - corporeal entity ( include a government or nation state ) , the Regulator shall consider the action of anyone who control that body corporate or entity ( and ' control ' shall have the meaning give in section 255 of the Companies Act 2006 ) , and ( b ) the Regulator shall have absolute discretion to determine whether conduct fall within any of the category in paragraph ( a ) to ( d ) . ( 3 ) in respect of subsection ( 1 ) ( c ) and ( d ) , a risk of disrepute shall not be valid ground for disqualification of any person if such disrepute would , in the reasonable opinion of the Regulator , be unfounded . ( 4 ) in accordance with Schedule 2 , Part 2 , paragraph 15 , the Regulator may establish a committee or committee to discharge its function under this clause . " new clause 8 — duty to address ticket market practice — " regulated club and competition organiser must take reasonable step to — ( a ) monitor practice in the secondary ticketing market that may lead to excessive price mark - up or unauthorised resale ; ( b ) provide transparent information about ticket pricing and resale policy , include the face value of ticket ; and ( c ) provide official ticket exchange channel where reasonably practicable . " new clause 9 — Prioritisation of competition within english football — " ( 1 ) this section apply where a regulated club be participate in a competition outside of English Football . ( 2 ) where the IFR consider that the regulated club ' s participation in the competition be damaging to the heritage of English football , the IFR must take what measure it consider necessary to prevent that damage . ( 3 ) measure that the IFR might take include a direction to the club that it — ( a ) prioritise any fixture take place in a competition within english football over those in the competition outside of english football ; ( b ) cease participation in the competition outside of english football . " new clause 10 — Player welfare — " within one year of the passing of this Act the Secretary of State must review how to improve the welfare of football player . this review should include consideration of — ( a ) neurodegenerative disease incur by head football ; ( b ) the number of game that footballer be require to play each season ; and ( c ) the impact on the welfare of current and former professional footballer as a result . " new clause 11 — correspondence about the IFR — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must publish any correspondence receive by the Secretary of State from the F é d é ration Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) and the Union of European Football Associations ( UEFA ) about the IFR ' s exercise of its function . ( 2 ) the IFR must publish any correspondence it receive from the F é d é ration Internationale de Football Association ( FIFA ) and the Union of European Football Associations ( UEFA ) about the exercise of its function . " this new clause would require correspondence between FIFA and UEFA and either the Secretary of State , or the IFR , with regard to the IFR ' s regulatory function , to be publish . new clause 12 — Impact on Regulator of change in Government administration — " if the Department for Culture Media and Sport be abolish , or its function in relation to football substantially relocate , the Government must automatically review the suitability of the continuation of the IFR and the impact that the abolition or relocation will have on the IFR . " this new clause would require the Government to review the IFR in the instance that the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be abolish , or its function substantially alter . new clause 13 — neurodegenerative care scheme — " ( 1 ) the IFR must establish and supervise a scheme aim at provide a high standard of care and support to any person who have develop a neurodegenerative condition link to their career in english football . ( 2 ) the Secretary of State must make regulation set out — ( a ) minimum requirement for the scheme , ( b ) a timescale for the scheme ' s establishment , and ( c ) arrangement and a timescale for a periodic review of the scheme . ( 3 ) the IFR must ensure that , as a condition of organise any competition specify pursuant to section 2 ( 3 ) , all specify competition organiser jointly operate , manage and fund the scheme in accordance with subsection ( 4 ) to ( 8 ) . ( 4 ) for the purpose of operating , manage and fund the scheme , all of the specified competition organiser must form a Joint Coordinating Committee ( ' JCC ' ) . ( 5 ) any current or former player who have at any time be register as a professional footballer be eligible for the scheme . ( 6 ) the scheme must provide care and financial support to any eligible person who suffer from a neurodegenerative condition which be deem , pursuant to subsection ( 7 ) ( a ) , to have be cause or contribute to by play or training activity within english football . ( 7 ) the JCC must , under the supervision of the IFR , appoint a panel of independent expert — ( a ) to determine whether , on the balance of probability , a neurodegenerative condition of an eligible person have be cause or contribute to by play or training activity within english football , and ( b ) to determine the appropriate provision of care and financial support require in the case of each eligible person . ( 8 ) the IFR must ensure that the JCC act upon the panel ' s determination . ( 9 ) where — ( a ) specify competition owner , through the JCC , can not agree about the operation , management or funding of the scheme , or ( b ) at any time , the scheme do not meet either — ( i ) the aim under subsection ( 1 ) , or ( ii ) any requirement set out in regulation under subsection ( 2 ) , the Secretary of State may , have take advice from the IFR , make a direction about the operation , management or funding of the scheme . " new clause 14 — duty to vet financial investment in football club — " ( 1 ) the IFR must review and approve all propose financial investment in regulate club from fund which be locate outside of the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) a review under subsection ( 1 ) must include — ( a ) assess if any source of revenue for such a fund be the result of money laundering ; ( b ) assess if the owner of such a fund be charge with any breach of UK or international law . ( 3 ) if upon complete a review under subsection ( 1 ) the IFR have determine a source of revenue for a fund be the result of money laundering or the owner of a fund be in breach of UK or international law the IFR must direct the club to reject the investment . " Amendment 14 , in clause 2 , page 2 , line 31 , leave out subsection ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 3 ) for the purpose of this Act a ' specify competition ' include — ( a ) the Premier League , ( b ) the English Football League , and ( c ) the National League . ( 3A ) the Secretary of State may by regulation make by statutory instrument subject to approval by both Houses of Parliament amend the competition specify in section ( 3 ) . " this amendment would specify the league that be to be class as " specify competition " under Act . amendment 3 , in clause 6 , page 5 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( d ) to ensure that the care and support of people who have develop neurodegenerative condition link to their career in english football form part of any strategy publish by the IFR , and to oversee an equitable and fair industry financial scheme to provide care for those people . " Amendment 12 , page 5 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( d ) to take responsibility for the protection , financial welfare , and safeguarding of current and former player involve in English football who — ( i ) have be victim of financial abuse , mismanagement , or fraud , or ( ii ) be at risk of become victim of financial abuse , mismanagement , or fraud , ( refer to in this Act as ' the financial abuse , mismanagement and fraud objective ' ) . " amendment 29 , page 5 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( d ) to ensure that the care and support of those who have develop neurodegenerative condition link to their career in English football be a central part of its approach to football governance , and to establish and supervise the scheme provide for under section [ Neurodegenerative care scheme ] . " this amendment place an objective on the IFR to establish and supervise a scheme to provide care and support to those who have develop neurodegenerative condition link to their career in english football ( see NC13 ) . amendment 25 , in clause 7 , page 5 , line 27 , at end insert — " ( d ) conflict with any regulation or rule of international football governing body , include FIFA and UEFA . " this amendment require the IFR to exercise its function so as to avoid conflict with the regulation and rule of international footballe body . amendment 1 , in clause 10 , page 7 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( d ) an assessment of the impact that the IFR ' s activity have have on the price of match ticket . " this amendment would require the IFR to include in its state of the game report the impact that its regulatory activity have have on ticket price . amendment 21 , in clause 11 , page 7 , line 41 , at end insert — " ( 7 ) no football governance statement may have effect unless approve by resolution of both Houses of Parliament . " this amendment would require the football governance statement to be approve by Parliament before it could have effect . amendment 2 , in clause 14 , page 9 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the impact that the IFR ' s activity have have on the price of match ticket , and " . this amendment would require the IFR to include in its annual report the impact that its regulatory activity have have on ticket price . amendment 28 , page 9 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( aa ) the cumulative impact of the cost impose on club through compliance with the IFR ' s regulatory regime , and " . this amendment would require the IFR to include in the annual report an account of the financial cost impose on club through its regulatory requirement on they . amendment 26 , in clause 17 , page 11 , line 27 , leave out subsection ( 9 ) and insert — " ( 9 ) the IFR must make the decision whether to grant a regulated club a provisional operating licence within the period of one month . ( 10 ) the IFR may extend the period in subsection ( 9 ) by no more than two week if it require more time to consider the application due to — ( a ) unusual staffing pressure , or ( b ) discrepancy or abnormality with the application . ( 11 ) if the IFR extend the period as per subsection ( 10 ) , it must give a notice to the relevant club state — ( a ) that the period have be extend , ( b ) the length of the extension , and ( c ) the reason for the extension . " this amendment place a time limit of one month for the IFR to decide whether to grant a provisional operating license . amendment 15 , in clause 37 , page 28 , line 28 , at end insert — " ( fa ) whether the individual be a member of a proscribe organisation as per section ( 3 ) and schedule ( 2 ) of the Terrorism Act 2000 . " this amendment require that IFR , in determine whether an owner or officer have the requisite honesty or integrity , to consider whether the person be a member of an organisation proscribe under the Terrorism Act 2000 . amendment 8 , in clause 46 , page 39 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( c ) in the case of a disposal under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) , it have take reasonable step to establish that the majority of the club ' s fan domicile in England and Wales approve of the disposal . " amendment 9 , page 39 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) before the IFR grant an approval under subsection ( 6 ) it must — ( a ) consult the supporter of the body in question , the relevant competition organiser and person represent the local community with which the body be associate , and ( b ) have regard to the view express by those consult . " Amendment 24 , in clause 53 , page 42 , line 3 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) but the IFR may not require a club with few than 10 full time equivalent employee to pay the IFR a levy in respect of a chargeable period during which the club be a licensed club . " this amendment would exempt club with few than 10 full time equivalent employee from have to pay the levy . government amendment 4 to 7 . amendment 18 , in schedule 2 , page 87 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) any political interest of , and political donation make by , the prospective chair of the Board , must all be declare as part of the appointment process , and publish before the chair ' s pre - appointment hearing with the Culture , Media and Sport Select Committee . " Amendment 19 , page 87 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 5 ) no member may be appoint to the Board if they currently have any broadcast or media interest or any role in a television or medium broadcast that relate to football . " this amendment prohibit any person who currently have any interest or role in a television or medium broadcast that relate to football from be appoint to the Board . Amendment 23 , page 88 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) but the number of person in the employment of IFR ( include any person second to the IFR ) must at no time exceed 50 . " amendment 22 , page 89 , line 9 , leave out subparagraph ( 3 ) and insert — " ( 3 ) the IFR may pay a person appoint as the Chief Executive no more than £ 172 , 153 per annum . ( 3A ) notwithstanding the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer as per paragraph ( 3 ) , the IFR must pay its employee such remuneration as may be determine by the non - executive member . " this amendment limit the pay of the Chief Executive . amendment 20 , page 93 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 4A ) no member may be appoint to the Expert Panel if they currently have any broadcast or media interest or any role in a television or medium broadcast that relate to football . " this amendment prohibit any person who currently have any interest or role in a television or medium broadcast that relate to football from be appoint to the Expert Panel . Amendment 16 , in schedule 4 , page 99 , line 37 , at end insert — " ( f ) the club ' s political statement and position . " this amendment ensure that club have to engage their fan on the political statement a club might adopt . amendment 10 , in schedule 5 , page 100 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( e ) an Asset of Community Value condition . " this amendment add the requirement to attach an Asset of Community Value condition to each club operating licence . Amendment 27 , page 102 , line 7 , at end insert " include the club ' s official charity . " this amendment would make clear that the activity of a football club ' s official charity can be count towards it meet the corporate governance code . amendment 17 , page 102 , line 13 , leave out sub - paragraph ( e ) . this amendment remove the requirement for the corporate governance statement to cover what action the club be take to improve equality , diversity and inclusion . amendment 13 , page 102 , line 33 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) the IFR must ensure that the person refer to in subsection 1 ( a ) and 1 ( b ) be representative of the majority of the club ' s fanbase and represent the club ' s key supporter ’ group . ( 1B ) if it be unclear which be a club ' s key supporter ' group the IFR must consult with the Football Supporter ' s Association to determine which group apply for the purpose of this paragraph . " amendment 11 , page 103 , line 20 , at end insert — " Asset of Community Value 11a the Asset of Community Value condition be a condition require a club to either — ( a ) obtain and maintain Asset of Community Value status for its home ground ; or ( b ) incorporate into its Articles of Association a restriction which substantially mirror the restriction place on asset of Community Value under the Localism Act 2011 , and the Secretary of State may create regulation detail furth the implementation of the Asset of Community Value condition . " the amendment define the Asset of Community Value condition that club be require to obtain for their home ground and be consequential on Amendment 10 . I also put on record my thank to Lord Tebbit for his life of service to both our country and our party . he will be dearly miss by we all . in opening today ' s proceeding , I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it be a privilege to speak on Report for the countless fan who fill the stand week in and week out , wear their club ' s shirt with pride and keep our club alive , come rain or shine . I put on the record my thank to all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution in Committee , and to everyone who have engage with the process outside of Westminster . for all the high talk of regulator , quangos and corporate structure , let we never forget that football in this country be not an industry dream up by official on neat PowerPoint slide or Excel spreadsheet , but a living tradition that be part of who we be and part of the fabric of our nation . that be precisely why we must be so careful now : because this Bill , well - intentione though it may be , risk replace one danger — a minority of reckless owner — with another , namely reckless political interference that risk the independence of sport . this Bill , which want to tackle cowboy owner , come from an incoherent Government under investigation for appoint a Labour crony to be the new sheriff of football , and from a Department that have see the Whip resign since the last meeting of the Bill Committee . we really be in " the Thick of it " . would the shadow Minister like to join I in thank the shadow Secretary of State , his right hon . friend the Member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , for first introduce legislation to this House that promote an independent football regulator ? [ interruption . ] as the shadow Secretary of State say from a sedentary position , " you ' ve mess it all up " , and I be sure that do not apply just to football . before I move on to our amendment , it be worth remind ourselves how we get here . english football be not invent by corporate lawyer or politician . its origin be in the history and soul of community across our country . it be the same spirit that today see parent across the country drive through wind and rain on a Sunday morning so that their child can run out in their local club colour . it be a spirit that do not appear on balance sheet , but without sustainable finance there be no football at all . sadly , we have all see those case where financial mismanagement and reckless spending have see club and fan damage . that be why the Conservatives put fan first by launch the independent fan - lead review of football governance , which focus on the long - term sustainability of the game . we support well fan engagement , respect the heritage of our club and strengthen ownership test to help prevent the issue we have see at the like of Bury , Charlton and Reading . the fan - lead review state that this area of regulation should in time be return to the Football Association and league . have speak to many football fan across the country and also in my constituency , I can say with confidence that they would agree with that even more now that Labour be try to directly interfere in english football by appoint a Labour crony . during the passage of the Bill , we have hear from the fa and the Premier League that they be concern by regulatory scope creep , and we have seek in our amendment to push back on the tentacle of this socialist state seek to strangle with red tape our beautiful game — this great british success story , which attract million of fan around the world and contribute £ 8 billion to our economy each season . our amendment would prevent the Secretary of State from expand the league in scope of the regulator under clause 2 without the approval of Parliament . we must give club certainty and prevent Whitehall empire building . we must also have transparency about how much these new regulatory burden be cost club and ticket price , both today and in the future . that be why we have table amendment 1 , 2 and 28 . every pound spend on new compliance staff be a pound not spend on grassroots player , stadium maintenance or affordable ticket price . every new bureaucrat be another tenner on a family ' s matchday cost . in the end , the fan pick up the tab , just like always . the Government ' s impact assessment suggest that these cost will be more than £ 125 million , with small club expect a bill of up to £ 47 million . we know that many small club will have no choice but to pass that cost on to fan , and the Government and their regulator must be honest about that . member can help limit those additional cost by support our amendment 22 and 23 , which would limit the size of the Government ' s new regulator and cap the pay of the chief executive at the same level as the Prime Minister . the Government state that they want their regulator to be light - touch , but they vote against limit be place upon it . that lead to the question : why be they say one thing while do the opposite in Westminster ? be it because of inexperience , or be the truth that this be yet another example of job for the boy , to the cost of fan ? that be why we have table amendment that would limit political interference in the independence of sport . we believe that fan should be consult on any political statement make by club . football club must not be mouthpiece for whichever fashionable cause of the time , and we believe that politic should be keep out of sport wherever possible . when a club speak , it speak for its fan and the local community . if it want to do that on matter far beyond football , it should ask those fan first . would the shadow Minister mind tell the House what these fashionable cause that football club should not speak about be ? I be happy to do so . throughout Committee stage we have be quite clear — as the hon . Gentleman ' s colleague , the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , will say — that we do not believe that that include the like of remembrance , which we be differ from political cause . however , as we have say , we do not believe that club should be get involve in politic , and that be a hill that we be willing to die on . my amendment 17 to schedule 5 would remove the requirement for additional reporting on equality , diversity and inclusion . we all know that football must be welcome to everyone . racism and bigotry have no place on the terrace , just as they have no place in wide society . football have make huge progress by itself , with a range of initiative already in the game include kick it out , Show Racism the Red Card , the Premier League Equality , Diversity and Inclusion Standard framework , the English Football League ' s equality code of practice , anti - racism education and mentor scheme . the game have do that not because a Government regulator tell it to , but because it be right , it work and fan support it . however , fan do not pay their hard - earn money at the turnstile to fund diversity paperwork . our amendment leave inclusion where it belong : on the pitch , in the stand and in the community . let I now turn to clause 7 , and to new clause 11 in my name . the new clause seek to ensure that the IFR exercise its function to avoid conflict with the regulation and rule of international footballe body . FIFA and UEFA rule be clear : national association must be free from undue political interference . country that break that rule have be ban before : just ask the Greek football committee . the Government be sleepwalk towards a giant own goal , and this time there be no var to save we . we already know that UEFA have write to the Secretary of State set out its concern about the Bill , and that the letter arrive after the Government have introduce its expand version . UEFA write : " one particular area of concern stem from one of UEFA ' s fundamental requirement , which be that there should be no Government interference in the running of football . " unfortunately , the Minister could not give we enough reassurance about Government interference with english football , which be why I have re - table my amendment . we know that UEFA be concern about the potential for scope creep , and that the Government ' s regulator may expand its mandate beyond its loosely define current competency . such an expansion , intentional or otherwise , into broad aspect of football governance could undermine the establish structure and process of the sport , and amount to Government interference . I do not whether the shadow Minister can get some help from his right hon . friend the Member for Daventry , who be sit next to he on the Front Bench . I wonder whether , when the right hon . Gentleman be in the Government , he receive any correspondence from UEFA and FIFA . give the openness that the shadow Minister be call for , will he now publish any correspondence receive by the last government ? that be quite a rehearsed line that the hon . Gentleman be see to play out . as we hear in Committee , the Minister have seek to reassure the House that UEFA have no problem with the Bill . if that be the case , why be the letter not be lay in the House so that all member can vote with full confidence in what be be say ? what be be brief to the press differ significantly from what the Minister be tell Members today . so far , the Minister have refuse to allow Parliament to see that letter so that we can scrutinise the Bill properly in the full possible way and in the proper context . let I will ask she again now : what be she so afraid of ? be she scared that , give the Secretary of State be already under investigation for appoint one of her donor as chair , the publication of the letter will prove to be yet another nail in the coffin of her regulator ? let I now turn to schedule 2 . any regulator must be credible , and that mean independent beyond any doubt . but what have we see ? a preferred chair with a hidden political donation , a Secretary of State force to recuse herself only when expose , and a revolving door — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way happily . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way , give that he have name I . may I ask he why the previous Government — include his colleague the shadow Secretary of State , who be sit next to he and who be the Minister responsible at the time — actively headhunte the individual in question and add he to the shortlist ? [ interruption . ] they can shake their head all they like , but that be true . the Secretary of State have , either deliberately or not deliberately , just mislead the House . the gentleman in question — [ interruption . ] let I explain . the gentleman in question have already say — order . I understand that the shadow Minister may not have mean to say that the Secretary of State have deliberately mislead the House ; he may want to clarify that . I will reflect on that comment , Madam Deputy Speaker — [ interruption . ] and I withdraw it . [ interruption . ] I have say that I withdraw it ; I do not know what the problem be . member can scream and shout all they want , but the reality be that in the Select Committee , the chair in question say very clearly that he have be approach by civil servant , not by the then Minister in question . the Minister in question , my right hon . friend the Member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , have already say on the Floor of the House that he do not approach the say gentleman . perhaps the Secretary of State would also like to reflect on her comment . there be a revolving door of vest interest ready to leap in . we would not let the chairman of a rival club — [ interruption . ] you be already under investigation ; I be not sure you want to make it bad . we would not let the chairman of a rival club referee a cup final , so why let — Order . I be sure the shadow Minister do not mean to infer that I be under investigation . of course , Madam Deputy Speaker . I apologise . you be not under investigation , but the Secretary of State and the Government be . that be a matter of public record . we would not let the chairman of a rival club referee a cup final , so why would we let people with political or commercial conflict of interest sit at the very top of this new football referee ? my amendment to schedule 2 be basic due diligence : they would mean no party hack in the chair and full declaration of conflict of interest , to avoid the mess that this Government have get themselves into . amendment 18 would put a stop to the cronyism once and for all , and give the public proper transparency . it be not radical ; it be responsible . if we do not accept it , the regulator will fail before the first whistle blow . we have re - table new clause that we still believe would strengthen the Bill . let I begin with the welfare of player past and present , who run on to the pitch every weekend and give we great entertainment . we can not ignore the fact that , for too long , the welfare of player have too often be an afterthought once the final whistle blow and the crowd go home . new clause 10 call for the Secretary of State to conduct within one year of this Bill pass a serious review of how we can well protect player past , present and future . the new clause do not dictate solution ; it demand a serious , evidence - lead review . it ask the Secretary of State to bring together the govern body , medical expert , club and player to ensure that the beautiful game do not come at the cost of the mind and body of those who play it . we hope the Government listen . last but certainly not least , our new clause 1 would require the Government to consult on call full - time on the two - tier approach to football fan . the alcohol ban , which have be in place since 1985 , be introduce to help curb hooliganism on the terrace during the problematic era of british football . forty year on , and with the modern game enjoy a more family - friendly atmosphere in stadium across the country , club , fan and the Conservatives be urge the Government to consult on lift the ban on alcohol . as football fan know , the legacy ban see fan rush to drink their beer before kick - off and at half - time . this often lead to fan be delay on enter stadium , and to overcrowd on concourse . we have listen to club and fan , especially those low down the football pyramid , and urge the Government to end the two - tier approach to football fan as part of this Bill . new clause 1 have support across this House , and we hope it will be support today . we be all here today because we care about english football , but there be fundamental difference between we on the Opposition Benches , who want the Bill to be deliver in a light - touch way , and the Government ' s heavy - handed political regulator . I stand here today because I want to see football succeed , not nationalise by stealth . we want club to be safeguard from dodgy owner , but not strangle in red tape . we want fan to have a real say , not tick off on a form bury in a filing cabinet . we want inclusion that work , not paperwork that gather dust . above all , we want football to remain what it have always be : something build by the people and for the people , not the political class . good regulation can help the referee to blow the whistle when rule be break , but it should not dictate every pass , every tackle and every free kick . the amendment in my name seek to limit the damage cause by this Bill . they park the bus against political overreach , and let football play on . if , like I , hon . and right hon . member really love football , the muddy pitch , the terrace and the song that never change , by all mean blow the whistle on the bad owner . however , we must also call time on Ministers who think they can well run league from Westminster . football do not belong to the Government . it belong to the people who stand shoulder to shoulder in the stand , win or lose . let we do right by they today . I be pleased to be respond on Report as the Football Governance Bill enter its final stage in the House of Commons . I begin by send my condolence to the family of Liverpool ' s Diogo Jota , who tragically lose his life last week at just 28 year of age , alongside his brother . I be sure the whole House will join I in send our thought to their love one . english football be one of our proud tradition . it be more than just a game . football bring we together , provide a source of local pride and unite we in victory and in loss . the premier league , the EFL and the national league attract some of the good player in the world . in return , we find fan of english football club in almost every country . however , despite the global success story of english football , there be underlying fragility in the game , and this Labour Government be commit to tackle they , as we be the party on the side of football fan . we have see too many instance of irresponsible owner , unsustainable financial model and inadequate regulation cast a shadow over too many club , as fan of Bury , Derby County and countless other know all too well . the current issue at Sheffield Wednesday and Morecambe need resolve now , and they demonstrate the urgent need for this Bill to become law . this change have be a long time come , date back in this place to the cross - party Culture , Media and Sport Committee report of 2011 . the ill - fate super league attempt lead , of course , to the fan - lead review , and I take this opportunity to pay tribute to Dame Tracey Crouch , who pioneer that work . my hon . friend mention that Conservative Minister , and Tory Members basically write the vast majority of this Bill , but then they decide to vote against it . I be confused about that , but could she explain to I why they think this be a socialist Bill and that football be be nationalise ? I think it be absolutely ridiculous . my hon . friend make a very good point . " I hope that whoever win the election on 4 July will see this as a good Bill to crack on with , because it be important for the future of football and , crucially , for the future of football fan . " – – [ Official Report , Football Governance Public Bill Committee , 23 May 2024 ; c . 244 . ] those be not my word , but the word of the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , for whom I have huge respect and affection . that bring I on to the point make by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) , and the amendment stand in his name . amendment 14 be on the issue of list in primary legislation the competition in scope of regulation . the approach in this Bill be consistent with similar sport legislation . the Opposition ' s amendment would be likely to make this a hybrid Bill , which would mean year of delay , in effect kill off the Bill that they introduce and which be in their manifesto . we have be absolutely clear that the regulator will be operationally independent of Government . it will not exert any influence on the Football Association ' s autonomy to govern the game . the shadow Minister be obsess with the publication of private communication with UEFA and FIFA . despite his obsession and what I would say be his quite strong remark about I at the Dispatch Box , do his government publish private correspondence ? no , of course they do not . I have be very clear throughout that UEFA and FIFA have no issue with the Bill as it be currently draft . Amendment 25 be simply scaremongere on the part of the Opposition . it be also curiously at odd with one of their other amendment — amendment 21 . the football governance statement , which be also in the previous Government ' s Bill , allow the Government of the day to set out their priority for the regulator . this be no different from the strategic steer that the Government can and do give to other regulator , such as the Competition and Markets Authority , without undermine their operational independence . the statement will be publish and lay before Parliament . parliamentary approval be neither appropriate nor necessary , especially give the need to avoid political interference . amendment 24 and 28 on levy exemption be simply not need . the cost of regulation should not place an undue burden on club and cost should be transparent , as set out in clause 54 . the regulator already have the power to exempt club from pay the levy through its levy rule . we have a long discussion in Committee about assess how much this regulator be go to cost and how big it be go to be , but all the amendment we put forward be vote down . when will the Minister know that this thing have grow too big and cost too much ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his service on the Bill Committee . he be right that we have a very good debate , and the impact assessment be of course approve by the previous Minister for Sport . on amendment 18 , the governance code on appointment be clear that political activity be not a bar to appointment . David Kogan have be find appointable for the role by a panel that include a senior independent panel member agree by the Commissioner for Public Appointments , and have now be endorse by the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , add a further layer of robustness . we will not set a new precedent with the football regulator by go far than the governance code on appointment , as the amendment propose . more broadly , on amendment 19 and 20 on conflict of interest , if the interest of a board or expert panel member might prejudice their ability to carry out their function , the Bill already capture that as a conflict of interest . on the owner and director test , membership of a proscribe organisation be an offence under the Terrorism Act 2000 , and that offence be include in paragraph 2A of schedule 1 to the Serious Crime Act 2007 . such offence would already be consider when test an individual ' s fitness , so amendment 15 be not require . on amendment 17 on the corporate governance code , report on equality , diversity and inclusion be a key part of good corporate governance . club will simply have to state what they be do on the issue . on amendment 27 on club charity , I know from my area of Barnsley the brilliant work that the Barnsley FC Community Trust do . through change make in the other place , the corporate governance code give a club the flexibility to detail what action it be take to contribute to the economic and social wellbeing of the community . that can include the work of the club ' s official charity or wide work in the community , so the amendment be not need . new clause 1 call for a consultation on lift the ban on consume alcohol in view of the pitch . that be outside the scope of the Bill , which focus on the sustainability of club and the game overall . I have raise the issue with the Home Office , which be the policy lead , as I commit to do in Committee . do the Minister agree with I and my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) that we do need to look at alcohol sale , but that we need to do it with all stakeholder in the round — not just throw it in as a gimmick to this Bill , which be about finance and governance ? my hon . friend make a good point , and I have reflect those comment to the relevant Home Office Minister , as I say . I will turn to the amendment in the name of the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) . I thank he for his constructive approach to the scrutiny of the legislation and for his party ' s support . several of his amendment be outside the scope of the regulator , but I be sure that he will put on record some important and valid point . on free - to - air tv in new clause 3 , the Government believe that the current list of event work well and strike an appropriate balance between give access to sporting event and allow sport to maximise broadcasting revenue . in domestic football , the present arrangement under the list event regime have protect key moment such as the FA cup final , while ensure that the Premier League , EFL and FA be able to raise billion of pound annually , which be invest back into the pyramid . we all want to see more match be televise free to air , but that must be balance against investment , and not risk it . on new clause 4 on the golden share , we expect that the regulator will welcome club take any measure to improve fan engagement and protect club heritage , include a golden share , but it will not mandate they to do so . that bring I on to the issue of fan engagement , which have be raise by the hon . member for Cheltenham and my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) in their amendment . let I be really clear : the Government have strengthen fan engagement . the previous Government ' s Bill require club to have a framework in place to ensure that they regularly meet and consult with a representative group of fan on key strategic matter at the club and other issue of importance to supporter . we have improve that by require fan engagement to continue even if a club enter into insolvency , and by introduce a requirement for consultation on ticket price . we have not prescribe a fixed , one - size - fit - all approach to fan engagement . we of course expect the regulator to consult the Football Supporters ' Association where appropriate on fan issue , and I know the shadow regulator be already engage with it . we do not want to place an unmanageable burden on club unnecessarily , which be why new clause 4 be not need . the hon . member for Cheltenham have also table amendment on protection for home ground , which my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East have also raise and we have recently discuss . home ground be vital asset for club , which be why the Bill introduce protection to prevent inappropriate stadium sale and relocation . clause 46 and 48 require a club to get approval from the regulator before they sell or relocate their stadium . on the sale of a home ground , let I first clarify that the legislation use the term " disposal " rather than " sale " for technical legal reason . for example , a club might sell a portion of the stadium , rather than the whole stadium . that be because a club might divest a shareholding , or transfer interest , in the stadium without it amount to a full sale . under clause 46 , the regulator ' s approval be need in all instance for the sale of a stadium by a club . a sale can be approve only if it would not undermine the sustainability of the club . if a sale might mean that the club will have nowhere to play a few year down the line , that mean the club may not be sustainable and the regulator be unlikely to approve the sale . do the Minister think that the regulator would take on board the view of fan as part of the process of look at these matter and have to give approval in the normal way ? yes , absolutely , and I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that far . I will move on to the issue of player welfare . the Minister might be just about to say the thing I be go to ask she about , as she have address a number of the amendment that my colleague have table , which be the issue of footballer suffer from neurodegenerative condition after their time . I be sure she be about to say something about that , in which case I apologise . as she will know , the proportion of footballer suffer from these condition be significantly great than the proportion of the general population . many former footballer — many without the vast income that people assume footballer will have have in their career — be leave in a terrible situation , not support by their club or the Premier League . what can the regulator do to get group like Football Families for Justice the resource they need to support those who suffer have give their life to the game ? I really appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention ; I know that he have work very hard on this issue . I be hugely sympathetic to the issue of player welfare . it be important to say that the safety , welfare and wellbeing of everyone take part in sport be absolutely paramount . neurodegenerative disease be a real concern of many people in the sport . I be not sure whether it should be part of the governance Bill , despite the fact that it be go to be the big socialist nationalise Bill there have ever be in our lifetime . [ laughter . ] it be a very serious issue , though . do my hon . friend agree that it need to be look at , and can she assure I that the Government will do so separately to the Bill , because of the urgency and the fact that people up and down this country at different level of football be suffer greatly , mainly as a result of head the ball ? I be really grateful for that intervention . again , I know that my hon . friend have do a huge amount of work on this issue . I have hear the call from member across the House , and indeed from retired footballer , and the Secretary of State and I recently meet a small group of affected family and ex - footballer , include individual associate with Football Families for Justice , to discuss player safety and welfare for those suffer with dementia . the Government be commit to look far at this issue and support the family and football authority to come together to address the lifelong consequence from concussion , as well as post - career mental health and financial crisis . I be afraid that these measure be not within the tight regulatory scope of the Bill , although that do not mean that the Government be not aware and sympathetic to the call be make on this issue , both in this House and from many former player and their family . the Bill be focus on the financial sustainability of football club up and down the country . too many fan have watch as their club make change on which they have no say , from sell their stadium and change club colour to , in the bad case , collapse under inadequate ownership . this be unacceptable . it be devastating for fan and for local community . it be this Bill , deliver by this Labour Government , that will help to protect one of our great sporting asset and ensure that fan can focus on what be happen on the pitch , rather than off it . today , member across this House can vote with football fan , or they can vote against they . today , we can deliver an independent football regulator . I commend this Bill to the House . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we welcome this Bill , as do Members across the House until a few short month ago . [ laughter . ] indeed , some of those member even come up with the idea . like many in the Chamber today , we be disappoint that the consensus remain broken , after an apparent direction from the Leader of the Opposition , and that the Conservatives have choose to turn their back on the sustainability of football quite so dramatically — perhaps it be time to sack the manager . while their time in government leave much to be desire , the Conservatives have the chance to claim a statement win today . after all , as I say , this Bill be their idea : Dame Tracey Crouch initiate the fan - lead review , and the previous Government start this process . now , however , the Conservatives have spectacularly miss an open goal , much like Ronnie Rosenthal at Villa Park in 1992 . if I be generous , I would say their performance on this Bill have be like Man United in 1998 — throw away a massive point lead only to finish with nothing . instead , I fear for the shadow Minister that they be more like Spurs in 2016 , somehow manage to finish third in a two - horse race — although , I suppose come third be the sort of result the Conservatives need to get use to . throughout this process , we have be clear on our position : we be in favour of the principle of protect the heritage of our national game , of great financial sustainability , and of great fan involvement in the game . we applaud the Government ' s approach in deliver that , and we will support the Bill on Third reading later today , because we remain consistent in our view . none the less , we think that the Bill could go far . let I begin with the issue of free - to - air coverage . in new clause 3 , we be call for key fixture from the domestic football calendar to be make available on free - to - air television . this include a selection of 10 premier league match each season , the league cup final and the play - off final in the championship , league one and league two . as a Charlton Athletic fan , the shadow Minister might have an interest in this one , because his team might make the play - off one day . these would complement the exist free - to - air marquee event such as the FA cup , the World cup and the Euros . this proposal be neither about undermine private broadcaster , whose view figure sadly be already decline , nor about devalue the broadcasting right on which club rely , which be show sign of plateauing , despite the addition of so many more live game to broadcast package . rather , this be an opportunity for broadcaster and the football league to innovate and to consider a more direct route to access fan without a paywall . by introduce more free - to - air game , broadcaster could explore wide sponsorship opportunity tie to large audience , generate new appointment - to - view moment , and engage fan who be currently price out of football not just in the stadium , but on television , too . this approach be already prove successful in other country . for example , La Liga broadcast one spanish top - flight match per week free to air , help to maintain widespread public engagement with the sport . with the rise cost of living and the grow number of subscription service require to watch live football — now total around £ 700 a year — make more match available without a paywall would ensure the game remain accessible . first , Charlton do reach the play - off and we be promote to the championship , so I be happy to correct the record for the hon . member . but on the broadcasting issue , what cost analysis have the Liberal Democrats do on this issue , give that we know that the premier league and the EFL have already sign broadcast deal with the like of Sky and other ? what be the economic impact for those club and league ? a huge amount of money be already go around in football , and we know that when we get to contract negotiation with the broadcaster and the league , these thing be chunk up into package . and when the next contract be up , this would be one of those package . I do not see that there would need to be any massive economic impact . it might seem odd that I , as a Scot , want to intrude in this debate , but the health of English football be valuable to we in Scotland as well . do my hon . friend agree that if football be to continue on the current scale , it need another generation to see it , to love it and to want to take part in it . the only really successful way of do that be to make it free to air to every household in this country at some point every week . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . the point here be that Gen z and people young than those in the Chamber today consume sport and medium in a very different way . [ interruption . ] my pronunciation of Gen z have be correct . it turn out that I be out of touch . those of we in the Chamber today grow up watch football as a 90 - minute game on television , many of we on free to air . today , youngster will be watch social medium clip on TikTok . they will be watch clip of people play game on computer as well . if we be to get the next generation of fan involve , the easy way to make sure that they be entertain and that they be engage be by make football free to air . I understand the point that the hon . Gentleman be try to make . he suggest that there would not be a cost impact on the broadcasting right , but the Liberal Democrat amendment state that a number of key match would be require to show on free - to - air tv channel every season . and as I highlight in my previous intervention , those broadcasting deal be already in place . do he not agree , therefore , that if member be to vote for the Liberal Democrat amendment today , that would impact the broadcast deal already in play for the EFL and the premier league . I do not believe that that necessarily have to be the case , but we will see what happen later on if the shadow Minister vote for our new clause . in response to the shadow Minister ' s point , have free - to - air coverage of premier league game put the sport in the shop window , which be actually more likely to bring money in for non - free - to - air provider . we should also remember what football be all about . it be about community . a live televise football match be a communal event that everybody watch at the same time , and it bring the country together . have game accessible on television every week would be good for the sport go forward , and it would mean that everyone can have access to football , not only those with money . my hon . friend be absolutely right , and I would reflect that Members ' interest in this point suggest that we be on to something , as do the interest we have see in the medium today for the amendment . turn to fan representation , new clause 4 and 5 would introduce a mandatory golden share for supporter group to protect club ' asset . the Bill provide some protection against some of the most egregious action of rogue football club owner , but the golden share concept in new clause 4 would add extra protection for club by give a recognise supporter ' trust or equivalent democratic fan body a formal veto over decision that could fundamentally alter the identity of their club . such decision would include relocate the home ground to somewhere outside the club ' s home area , change the club ' s name , alter its primary colour or badge or enter competition not sanction by the fa , the Premier League or the EFL . the golden share concept be include in the recommendation of Dame Tracey Crouch ' s fan - lead review but appear to have be drop somewhere along the way . we believe it be time to bring it off the bench , because supporter be more than just pay customer ; they be the living , breathe heart of their club . they carry the tradition , culture and local identity that connect club to their community . new clause 4 would help to increase accountability and democratic oversight in club ownership and governance . the need for it be obvious when we look at past event . the attempt to rebrand Hull City as Hull Tigers would have be veto by fan . a fan - hold golden share would have block the move of Wimbledon football club to Milton Keynes . the golden share could have stop Cardiff ' s kit be change from blue to red . it be entirely right that investor and owner be part of football ' s future , and they already have a massive stake in this , but it be just as important to protect the people who build the club and support they through thick and thin . the golden share offer a fair balance of power that protect heritage and ensure that fan be not sideline by reckless or profit - drive decision . that be at the heart of the aim of the Bill . this be my third intervention and I have not yet mention Blackburn Rovers — I will now break that duck . would the golden share allow fan to veto something like Blackburn Rovers ' outrageous decision to cease funding for their woman ' s football team ? it mean that the team drop from the championship down to a league several layer below , simply because the owner — venky ' s — disgracefully decide that they no long want to pay for a woman ' s team . woman ' s football be outside the scope of the Bill , but I believe that the golden share concept would cover that sort of decision . I agree that what have happen to the Blackburn Rovers woman ' s team be a total disgrace . turn to new clause 7 , our national game be something we all take immense pride in . football be one of the cornerstone of british culture , and it should never be use by individual or regime to cleanse their reputation or distract from human right abuse . that be why we have table an amendment aim at strengthen ownership rule for football club . prospective owner and director should face clear and enforceable test that include human right consideration . the test would help to safeguard not only the value that underpin our national sport , but the liberal and democratic principle that we as a country and all of we in this House stand for . it can not be right that we welcome with open arm those who preside over oppressive regime or be link to activity that potentially breach the value we hold so dear . if a football club ' s owner be link to action that breach international law , can we really say that our national game or this country should be host they ? we think not , and that be why we have table new clause 7 . on player welfare , which have be mention , amendment 3 would provide support for former professional footballer suffer from neurodegenerative condition . while broken bone and tear ligament can be fix , the long - term effect of repeat head trauma often go unnoticed . Kevin Moore , Chris Nicholl , Nobby Stiles and other give their good year to the sport , and it be a disgrace that many of they be now leave face devastating illness without the support that they need . our amendment would require the football industry to allocate a small share of its considerable wealth to those affect . I also want to acknowledge the work of Michael Giles , John Stiles and the Football Families for Justice . that work must be recognise here today . finally , I turn to the issue of gambling in football , cover in new clause 2 . gambling - relate harm be widespread and deeply damaging . fan watch football today be bombard with advert encourage bet — from tv commercial to shirt sponsorship . the influence of gambling in football have become overwhelming and dangerous . gambling firm spend about £ 1 . 5 billion a year on advertising , much of it direct at football fan . it be unacceptable that football fan be have their game irrevocably link to that trade . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be afraid that I have to make some progress . the loss be not just financial ; they lead to mental health crisis , family breakdown and even suicide . Public Health England estimate that there be around 400 gambling - relate suicide annually . we be not call for a ban on gambling , but on gambling advertising in football . football must sever the link between the game and gambling . this Bill be an important step forward for our national game and we welcome it . the beautiful game need its defender , not just on the pitch but in Parliament . we must make the game more accessible to fan , protect club heritage and ensure democratic fan representation . we must prevent the sport from be exploit by corrupt regime , support retire player suffer from neurological disease and stand up to the gambling industry ' s grip on our national sport . that be for the sake of the fan and for fairness , but more importantly , for the future of our national game . our amendment would do all that and I hope that member across the House , as well as Ministers , will consider they today and in future . as we be discuss new clause 1 , I finish by say that we will vote for it . rise — order . start with an immediate 6 - minute time limit , I call Chris Evans . I begin by declare an interest : I be the biographer of Don Revie , the former Leeds and England manager , and the author of " the Football Battalions " about the footballer who go to war . I echo the tribute from the Front Bench to Diogo Jota , whose life be lose last week . he light up the premier league for both Liverpool and Wolves , and we realise how short life be when we think about how he celebrate his wedding just 11 day early and about the three child he leave behind . I also pay tribute to the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) for do so well when he be the right hon . member for Pudsey in construct the Bill when in government . it be a shame that he do not agree with his former self . the Bill be bear out of the fan - lead review , but when we talk about a Football Governance Bill , footballer need to be at the heart of it . it be player who quicken the pulse and it be they who provide the memory that we cherish forever , from childhood right through to now — the memory that we pass on to our child . I therefore speak in favour of new clause 13 , which I have table , relate to a neurodegenerative care scheme and new clause 6 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) . just as fan be to be at the heart of the review , the game would be nothing without the player . I broadly support the Bill , but it can be make well , and if it can be make well , we should do that . the discourse surround the Bill be often about the independent football regulator be a safeguard for both fan and club , but it should also be a safeguard for ex - player and their family if neurological condition or illness be most likely cause by their career in football . unfortunately , the Bill neglect ex - player and family who be affect by condition such as Alzheimer ' s , Parkinson ' s and motor neurone disease . they must be support through the creation of the independent football regulator . it be evident that the effect of a career in football be long - lasting . footballer be four to five time more likely to die from neurodegenerative condition , often the result of persistently head the ball . the independent football regulator must supervise and establish a scheme aim at provide a high standard of care . player and their family dedicate themselves to the game and its danger , and it be only fair that they be look after in return . it should not be only their burden to bear , especially after contribute so much to our society . as have already be say , football generate £ 8 billion annually , contribute £ 4 billion in tax and support almost 100 , 000 job . I agree with my hon . friend — we host a Football Families for Justice event a few month ago . Most people be not aware that not all footballer make thousand and thousand of pound a week . this be the least that we can do to ensure that the pleasure that they have give we be respond to when they find themselves afflict with a neurological condition , such as Alzheimer ' s disease or Parkinson ' s . I hope that the Government will listen and support the new clause . I thank my hon . friend for her support . what bring this home to I about how much player be earn be when Johnny Giles , the great Leeds midfielder of the 1960 and ' 70 , show I his first contract from when he be play for Manchester United : £ 18 in the winter and £ 12 in the summer . that sum up how much they be pay . a point that come up at that important meeting , which be attend by luminary include Kevin Keegan , Chris Sutton , Paul Walsh and Barry Fry , be the complaint about the Professional Footballers Association . when I raise this on Second Reading , I be bombard with email from its public affair arm say , " oh , you ' ve get it all wrong , " but the question need to be ask . it be the PFA ' s member who be complain about it and say that it be not service they properly . it should be ask why that be happen . these be pfa member who have pay into its fund over the year , and if they be not be treat well , question need to be answer . accord to new clause 13 , the Secretary of State must set out the minimum requirement for the scheme , a timescale for the scheme ' s establishment and arrangement and a timescale for periodic review of the scheme . furthermore , all specify competition organiser should jointly operate , manage and fund the scheme through the formation of a joint co - ordinating committee . any current or former player who have at any time be register as a professional footballer would be eligible for the scheme . to I , this go beyond football . if research be discover that help dementia , Parkinson ' s or motor neurone disease , the rest of society win . this be something that football can lead and change society with . this scheme will provide crucial care and financial support to any eligible person who suffer from a neurodegenerative condition that be deem to have be cause by or contribute to by play football . a panel of independent expert must be appoint to determine whether a neurodegenerative condition of an eligible person have be cause by , or contribute to by , play or training activity within the english football league . it will also determine the appropriate provision of care and financial support require in each case . the independent football regulator must ensure that the joint co - ordinating committee act on the panel ' s determination , to ensure that ex - player and their family get the support they need . this be a matter of urgency . Ex - player who have give so much joy should be treat with dignity and respect , and support when they need to be . this new clause would ensure that . I pay tribute to campaigner include Michael Giles , son of Johnny , and John Stiles , son of Nobby . they have campaign with dignity and respect and with a quiet determination , and it be time we show the same respect to they . deny or ignore the link between football and neurological condition be no long sufficient . recently we lose Alan Peacock , who star for Middlesbrough and Leeds in the 1960 . he can be add to the long list of name , include Jackie Charlton and Bobby Charlton , his brother , who die of dementia ; Martin Peters ; Ray Wilson ; and , of course , Nobby Stiles . the connection between football and neurological condition acquire later in life must be address in this Bill , and if it be not , it must be address somewhere else . this Government , especially a Labour Government , should treat injury cause by or contribute to by football like any other workplace or industrial injury , and that be what my new clause would ensure . we on this side be the party for worker , and regardless of the industry , it be our job to support and protect they , especially as their union , in their word , let they down . since football have contribute so much to our economy and , more personally , to fan ' happiness , it be only common decency to support player when they be in need . this can not be ignore any long . not only must support be provide , but the independent football regulator must be there for they . I rise today to speak to the new clause in my name and to lend my support to several of the other new clause . some have already be speak about by my hon . friend across the House . new clause 6 be about financial abuse , mismanagement or fraud and about protect player . new clause 13 , which my hon . friend the Member for Caerphilly ( Chris Evans ) have just speak about , deal with neurodegenerative care scheme . football should never be a luxury . it should be a share national experience , accessible to family , young people and lifelong fan , but more and more it be become a commodity . a game that be build by and for the work class be now price out of reach for the very people who give it life . if I want to attend the first Premier League game in August , I would be look at pay over £ 200 for two ticket on the secondary market . that be before travel , food and all the rise living cost be factor in . even in ordinary time , that be a huge sum and for most people , it be simply unaffordable . football be become a luxury experience , not a communal one . historically , football thrive because it be accessible . its rise alongside the expansion of the railway network allow work people to follow their team home and away . it become more than just a sport ; it become a pillar of community identity and pride . fan — the heartbeat of the sport — be be push to the margin . our current ticketing system be price they out . that be why I have table new clause 8 , which would introduce a duty on club and competition organiser to ensure fair access and great transparency in ticket sale , especially in resell ticket when fan be not able to attend . we be see ticket price skyrocket while secondary ticketing platform exploit demand and rake in obscene profit . the new clause would compel club to monitor the secondary market , report harmful practice and offer resale channel to stop fan get rip off and scamme . fan should know the real face value of a ticket and have a safe , fair way to buy and resell they — no more profiteering or shadowy resale platform . the price of attend premier league game be beyond the mean of most fan , even more so if they want to share that experience with family member . I should declare an interest as a lifelong Liverpool fan , and I offer my condolence to the family of Diogo Jota and his brother who tragically die recently . while I may be bias in think that it be the great club in the world , I also say with pride that Liverpool have show what fan - focus leadership look like . the club recently freeze ticket price for the 2025 - 26 season follow discussion with the supporter board . that model of engagement and sensitivity to supporter deserve recognition , but not every club take that approach , and that be exactly the problem . we want to see this culture roll out across the country , one where fan be not an afterthought but at the centre of decision making . my new clause would make that approach a requirement , not just a gesture of goodwill . that lead I to my second proposal , new clause 14 , which would introduce mandatory vetting of foreign financial investment in football . it be about protect the soul of english football from the corrosive influence of dirty money . we have see at first hand how vulnerable club struggle under massive debt become easy target for opportunistic investor look to launder their reputation or gain geopolitical influence . I have raise this before : sportswashing be now one of the most insidious trend in football . where once the term might have bring to mind the 1936 Berlin Olympics or the 2015 Baku european game , today the UK be at the top of that list . that should shame we . I repeat the example I give in my speech on Second Reading of Abramovich ' s ownership of Chelsea . while it be see as a huge success for the club , his tie to the russian state and his close relationship with Putin should have raise huge financial and ethical concern , but these be overlook . for year , he use our game to rebrand himself , shift attention away from question about the origin of his fortune , but it be only follow the invasion of Ukraine that real action be enforce . that show exactly why we need strong safeguard to prevent that from happen again . the new clause would empower the independent football regulator to block investment from fund link to money laundering , criminal finance , human right abuse or any breach of UK or international law . that be the bare minimum . if Amnesty International or other watchdog have flag a state or source of fund for its abysmal human right record , there should be red flag , not red carpet , for the potential owner . let we be honest : fan sometimes embrace foreign investment out of desperation , but the independent football regulator should protect the game from nefarious fund and owner . this be not about bad actor ; it be about a broken system . club owner may not see the need for regulation . we be protect not just finance but value . if this Bill and the independent regulator fail to stop the abuse of our football institution by criminal or oppressive regime , they will have fail in their public duty . rise — I be impose an immediate five - minute time limit . I call Clive Betts . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — not for the time limit but for call I . the Bill be crucial because football have fail to regulate itself . it be key to ensure the sustainability of our great game . the first aspect of it that I really commend be the move to give the regulator power to ensure a fair redistribution of money throughout the football pyramid — it be clearly totally unfair that money be concentrate in a handful of club at the top while other club struggle at the bottom — and to remove the enormous cliff edge between the premier league and the championship . I thank the Secretary of State and the Sport Minister for listen to the concern raise about the power of the regulator with regard to the backstop . in improve the backstop in term of scope and process during the Bill ' s passage , they have listen and act , which be welcome indeed . the other aspect of the Bill that address sustainability be that it will now give the regulator power to deal with bad owner — not just at first instance when they be buy the club , but once they be in charge of it . I thank the Minister for write to I and clearly set out the power that the regulator will have to deal with owner who no long seem able to run a club properly , by intervene and take responsibility for the club away from they . it would be helpful to put that letter in the public domain and the Library . despite be a lifelong Barnsley supporter , I be still grateful to my hon . friend for host the Sheffield Wednesday supporter ' trust yesterday and for his leadership on this issue . what be reflect back to we by the supporter ’ trust be how unfair the current situation be . club — and therefore the fan — be punish when irresponsible owner like the current owner of Sheffield Wednesday , Chansiri , behave appallingly and do not put the fan first . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . I will turn in a second to what the EFL can do now . for all that the Minister have be helpful in explain what the regulator ' s power will be , the problem be that we be leave in the meantime without a regulator and doubt about what the EFL can do in that regard . my hon . friend the Members for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) , for read West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) and for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) will be very much involve with the reading supporter ' trust and can tell we all the problem that they have experience . my hon . friend the Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) have similar problem with her club . there have be similar problem for Derby and its fan , as hon . friend will know , and the Secretary of State will know about Wigan . the situation at Sheffield Wednesday be dire . the owner have fail to pay wage for three month over the course of this year . that affect not just the player — some of whom may be well off , while other be not ; the administrative staff , clerk and all those people have not be pay for two month in some case . the owner have not pay his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs on two occasion . it be clear that he be simply run out of money . what action can the EFL take ? we welcome the investigation that it be now conduct into what be go on at Hillsborough , but it be clear that although Chansiri be fund the club to the tune of about £ 10 million a year , he have now run out of money . Rob Brookes of the Wednesday supporter ’ trust have do a brilliant analysis of Chansiri ' s company in Thailand , which be , by and large , now lose money . he be not able to fund the club , so where have the money be come from to keep it go for the past two or three year ? have he borrow it ? if so , who have he borrow it from ? what be the condition on that borrowing ? be the people who lend he the money now effectively run the club and tell Chansiri that he can not sell it ? he have turn down many approach to sell the club and be demand ridiculous price for it . have the money be borrow from reputable source ? I do not know ; I be not make an accusation . the only person who can clarify this awful situation be Mr Chansiri himself , but he will not comment on it . we welcome the EFL investigation . as my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) say , we want the EFL to find out what be happen , and to be transparent and open about what it know about the whole issue . why , when Chansiri produce a business plan in March , do the EFL accept it ? how far do it question that plan ? have give the EFL a business plan say that he be financially sustainable , he fail to pay wage hour later . he have two five - hour engagement with the fan and never once mention his problem fund the club . as my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley say , what we do not want be for the EFL to come in and its only action be to punish the club with transfer embargo and point deduction to the point where a sustainable sale to someone else be not possible . I say to the EFL : you be the only hope we have until the regulator come in , so please work with the fan ' trust and other to find the good way forward . tell we what you know and what you know now , and expose what Chansiri have be do , because it be an absolute disgrace that a club of Sheffield Wednesday ' s stature should be reduce to this situation . we have hear today that , because of the Safety of Sports Grounds Act 1975 , Sheffield city council have issue a directive that unless work be do on the north stand roof , it will close part of the ground come the start of the season , but the club have know about that for three year . this be an appalling situation . I ask the Minister and the Secretary of State to talk to the EFL about how far they can work with they to save the situation . I welcome the Minister for Sport ' s letter to I , the commitment to fan engagement and the commitment on the FSA ' s role go forward , but the regulator must have the power to intervene if it feel that external competition such as the club world cup interfere with our domestic competition . I thank she very much for her engagement right through this process . I rise to speak in favour of the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , specifically new clause 3 and 4 . I will start by outline why these fan - centric measure be important to this particular fan and why football be important to I . football have be the most constant thing in my life . when I be a young boy , my uncle call I Statto because I use to study Teletext for every bit of football information I could get — the league table , the top scorer , all the transfer news — and relay it to my family until I annoy the hell out of all of they . football be also the central bond with my grandparent , or Pops , as I use to know he — so much so that when he pass , I take his ashe down the Tottenham High Road and lay they in the foundation of the new Tottenham Hotspur stadium . football be probably the most frequent conversation I have with my dad and the thing that glue all my friendship network together . I have to confess that be a politician be not my first career choice . just like every young boy , I think I could be a footballer . despite hour of effort after school every day , I be never go to be good enough . but I never give up ; I play football throughout my university year and form many friendship that way . after that , we do not want to stop , so we set up an alumnus football club together and carry on . eventually , I join Carshalton football club , whose club tie I be wear today , and I still play on a Saturday , except for the weekend when I be injure . those moment in Beddington park play for Carshalton football club be some of the only moment when I get to switch off from all this — my teammate would probably say that I also switch off too much on a Saturday when the winger run past I ! then there be the watching of football — the lunacy of I continue to watch . let I tell you , Madam Deputy Speaker : the journey from Carshalton to Tottenham and back on a rainy Tuesday night be brutal , particularly when we lose the number of game that Tottenham lose this year . yet in the same season when I have have all that misery , I have one night in Bilbao last month that be probably one of the good night of my life . isn ' t that just football — misery and sublime night like that all in one go ? the centrality of football to people ' s life be what make this Bill so important . People have feel in recent year that the game have drift away from they , and some people ' s reaction be to say , " that ' s the way it be . " I be glad that , through the Bill , the Government be say that we will not be resign to that fact — we be go to fight , stop that drift and bring it close to fan again . that bring I to new clause 4 , which be about the golden share . this be particularly important because it would lock in the fan ' voice via democratically elect organisation . that would mean that club would not be able to simply pay lip service to the element of consultation with fan ; there would be real power for the fan , with their presence inside the club . of course , this do not go anywhere near as far as other country , like Germany with the Bundesliga , but it be an important protection . we speak at length early about new clause 3 and the free - to - air element . I understand why there be a bit of controversy around that and why the Secretary of State will say that the current listing system work well . but who do it work well for ? it certainly work well for the premier league , but I be not sure whether it work well for all fan . the new clause would not go as far as la liga , which broadcast a game every single week . let we not kid ourselves : we be talk about 10 game out of 760 available — that would be 1 % of game . I do not think that would destroy the premier league ' s product , but it would make game so much more accessible to the next generation of fan . the premier league be a global attraction , but it be also England ' s product , and english fan should be able to watch those game . there be other element of the Bill that I could go on to support , but I be short on time , so I will just express my support for new clause 1 , which be important . I end with this quote from a famous Tottenham manager , Bill Nicholson : " we must always consider our supporter , for without they there would be no professional football . it would be well to have more fan watch football the way they like it play , rather than have a few fan watch football the way we would like it play . " those be important word that we should all reflect on when vote today . it be a real pleasure to speak in support of the Bill . we stand on a manifesto that promise to establish an independent regulator to ensure financial sustainability for football club in England . today we will be deliver on that promise for football fan across the country , regardless of the club they support ; of course , Doncaster Rovers be the only team worth note . Doncaster Rovers unite the community in my constituency and hold a special place in all our heart . in fact , local artist Martin Black will soon release a song for charity call " this be my city " , which be about community spirit and the hometown pride that stem from support your local team . it encapsulate what grassroot football really mean . the Government recognise the importance of fan in the football industry and be put they at the heart of the game once more . as we have hear , fan should never risk lose their beloved club because of financial instability stem from mismanagement and reckless spending . however , I would like to highlight the need to support football player from all league after their career . John Stiles , son of the 1966 legend Nobby Stiles , be one of my constituent . I first meet John in one of my early surgery — not long after I be elect — to discuss his involvement with the Football Families for Justice campaign , which , as we have hear , focus on support ex - footballer and their family when they face devastate neurodegenerative disease as a result of their football career . I pay tribute to John for all the work he have do on the campaign ; he have really be a leader in the area . research show that ex - footballer be four or five time more likely to suffer from Parkinson ' s , Alzheimer ' s , motor neurone disease and other similar disease . unfortunately , that be the case for Nobby . the PFA have be mention , so for the sake of time I will not go into it any far , but it be sadden that an industry with such a vast amount of wealth offer so little support to ex - footballer when they face unforeseen health impact result from their time on the pitch . I understand that the Bill ' s scope mean that some of the suggest change be not currently in the legislation , but I ask the Minister and the Department to give far thought to the adequacy of support provide to ex - footballer and their family when they face neurodegenerative disease . as have be say , not all footballer be earn million of pound every year ; in fact , many earn very little and have relatively short career in the context of their life . the football industry be carry on the skill and sacrifice of its player as well as its fan . it be disappointing that the industry do not really recognise that . if even only a small proportion of wealth in the industry be make more easily accessible to player and support ex - professional , that would go a long way to deliver justice for those player and their loved one . I hope to continue my engagement with the Minister and the Department on this matter . however , I welcome this Bill and the fact that it will ensure a consistent approach in how club be run by implement a club licensing regime and tackle rogue owner and director . I be pleased that the Bill have the support of Club Doncaster in my constituency . on its behalf , I remind the Minister of the importance of ensure that the regulator provide objective and competent oversight of the football governance model . club and their system deserve financial sustainability to protect the heritage of english football . football be part of our culture and history . with the recent and well - deserve promotion of Donny Rovers , I be pleased that this Government be take step to protect its legacy and its future . I rise to support new clause 13 and amendment 29 on behalf of one of my constituent , the former Arsenal and Leeds goalkeeper John Lukic . I be grateful to John for bring to my attention the grow number of ex - player suffer from chronic traumatic encephalopathy , a form of dementia cause by repeatedly head the ball . research show that retire footballer be more than three time more likely to suffer from dementia than the general population . CTE be a progressive and irreversible disease that leave individual suffer from memory loss and unable to carry out basic day - to - day activity . as a result , those around they often become their carer and have to endure watch their love one gradually lose their memory and independence . the modern game be awash with money ; the Premier League ' s late tv deal be worth £ 6 . 7 billion . despite the huge sum of money available , only £ 1 million have to date be commit to support player suffer from neurodegenerative disease . as we have already hear a few time , the situation have leave former player , such as world cup winner Nobby Stiles , have to sell their medal to fund their care . while footballer have always be pay comparatively well , the player from the ' 60 , ' 70 and ' 80 earn nothing like the sum that modern star be pay , and their career be short . it be worth highlight that this issue may not go away : although football be not as heavy as they use to be , they now travel fast , mean that the overall impact of head a ball can be similar . I therefore support these measure in solidarity with Football Families for Justice , which I join in call for legislation to be enact that will ensure competition organiser be require to provide funding towards a neurodegenerative care scheme . unfortunately , unless competition organiser be make to do it , the belief be that they will not . just as the Football Governance Bill seek to protect fan from profit - drive venture such as the creation of new super league , it be right that the Bill should also protect the player who give so much to make the game what it be . I be encourage by what the Minister have say on this matter . we rightly hear that football be nothing without the fan , but the fan turn out only for the player . football need to support they . I congratulate the Secretary of State and the Sports Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , on bring the Bill to this point . I also congratulate they on listen to argument about how we treat the vast resource that come in through tv deal and distribute they throughout the football pyramid , particularly in give the regulator power over parachute payment , if he deem it necessary — I sincerely hope he will — if we do not get an agreement between the English Football League and the Premier League . those payment really distort competition , particularly in the championship . that need to be address in this Bill , and I congratulate the Secretary of State and the Minister on do that . I support the new clause and amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) . they deal with how we identify the people who really begin this journey : the sport fan . this start with the super league and the fan ' reaction to it . they be determined to stop club from break away from the premier league and form a super league with other club from across the globe . the reaction of fan shock the Conservative Government at the time into action ; they could not really resist . the power of fan have bring we to this point . we need to understand how we can identify fan — bona fide supporter of a club — and consult they on how we regulate the game go forwards . my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East be attempt to do that through some of his amendment . my hon . friend have identify another very important factor , which be how we prevent asset be attractive to those people who look to take over a club , not because they be interested in football in any way but because they see asset of value from which they can make money . by run club into the ground , they seek to make a profit from those asset . through the " asset of community value " power or something similar , my hon . friend be try to prevent that from happen . if his amendment be not accept or vote on tonight , I would certainly commend they to the regulator , who I hope will take heed of what my hon . friend be attempt to achieve . one other amendment I add my name to be new clause 1 , because I think the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) , be on to something . why do we treat other sport differently from football — why be football single out ? well , I think we know the story of that , but it have be a long time since the issue of alcohol at football ground have be look at . there be nothing unreasonable about ask club and the football community to look at whether we can relax those rule in certain circumstance , so that where club want to do it , they can do it , and should do so in partnership with their fan . a review of that issue would not be a bad thing at all . this Bill be a giant leap forward for football in this country . I commend my right hon . and hon . friend on the Front Bench for what they have achieve , and I wish the Bill a fair wind . it be an immense privilege to rise once again to support this important Bill during its passage through Parliament . I want to draw particular attention to amendment 10 and 11 , which stand in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) . those amendment would require a club ' s home ground to be designate as an asset of community value as part of its operating licence . I welcome the remark make by the Minister during her opening speech about the safeguard that be already in the Bill to protect home ground . a club ' s stadium be more than its stand , plastic seat , some turf and the woodwork . it have a spirit ; it be part of the club ' s identity . it have memory — high and low — soak up in its wall . we must protect these important asset for the community they mean so much to . in many case , a club ' s stadium be inherently bind up with the place that surround it , and can form a link between the sport and the identity of the town or city it sit in . Crewe Alexandra ' s home ground , the Mornflake stadium , be name after an iconic historic local milling business and producer of breakfast food found in 1675 , and be overlook by the railway line that give birth to the town . similarly , Nantwich Town FC ' s stadium sit on the bank of the River Weaver , which literally connect the club to the town centre and beyond . I strongly believe that we can and should go far to strengthen the link between club and community , which be why I be delighted recently to join Stuart Price , Trevor Griffiths and Aaron Lewis on the fantastic " Railwaymen " podcast , a dedicated fan ' podcast for Crewe Alexandra FC . we discuss exactly how we might strengthen those link , work together in partnership . I be delighted to be work closely with the podcast and other key stakeholder in the town to commission a mural to the club , which could act as a bridge between the stadium and the town centre . although it be early day for that project , I extend an early invitation to visit to the Secretary of State and the Minister — who have only just be in my constituency to open a boxing gym , but be always welcome to come back — if we be successful in commission that mural . finally , it be a great shame that the Conservative party and Reform have thus far join force to try to frustrate the progress of this Bill . as the shadow Minister be indicate , Reform member be once again not even in the Chamber , although I have to say that there be not many member on the conservative Benches either . our game need an independent football regulator , the Football League need it , and I believe the Premier League need it too . if Opposition member be in any doubt , I encourage they to read the case for an independent football regulator write by Crewe Alexandra supporter Tom Kural . it set out in illuminate clarity why this change in the law be need , and why member from all part of the House should be in no doubt that fan in my constituency , and I be sure in theirs , want this change . before Opposition Members walk through the Lobby tonight , I encourage they to think carefully about what fan like Tom in their constituency think . as someone bear and raise in Derby , I know how deeply our football club run through the heart of our city . Derby County be more than just a team ; it represent our identity , our pride and the strength of our community . however , like so many in this House , I also know what it feel like when that identity be put at risk . in 2021 , Derby County enter administration . the confusion and lack of transparency that follow make it much hard for everybody involve , include those of we work behind the scene to help secure the club ' s future . it be only thank to the extraordinary action of local man and lifelong fan , David Clowes , that the club be save . one example that highlight the need for strong oversight be the attempt takeover of Derby County by Chris Kirchner . despite initial approval , it become clear that Kirchner be not a fit and proper person to run the club . his financial shortcoming and failure to meet deadline lead to the takeover attempt collapse . later , Kirchner be convict of fraud - relate charge in the US over his business dealing and sentence to 20 year in prison . that be why I welcome the Football Governance Bill , which offer the protection that Derby County and so many other club across the EFL need . while the facial expression of Opposition Members be worth an intervention all on their own , do my hon . friend agree that this Bill provide strong financial oversight and increase fan involvement , promote equity and inclusion , protect club heritage , and increase transparency and accountability ? the reason the opposition oppose it be because those be alien concept to they . absolutely , the face of Opposition Members say it all . I will talk a little more about the content of the shadow Minister ' s speech in a second . the EFL have need this Bill , and it want this Bill . it will establish the independent football regulator , introduce proper financial oversight and finally require club to engage seriously with the fan who give the club their life . we do not need to look far to see that the problem be ongoing . they be happen in front of our eye . my own chief of staff be a devoted Sheffield Wednesday fan and be deeply trouble by the instability and uncertainty surround her club . like so many fan , she see an owner who clearly do not have the resource require to run the club appropriately . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) for the work he have do and continue to do to stand up for fan and the future of their beloved Sheffield Wednesday . this Bill be not just a policy proposal , but a vital step towards a fair and more sustainable future for our national game . club in the EFL will lose around £ 450 million this season alone . the level of instability be not just damaging , but dangerous . we have already see what happen when thing go wrong , from Bury to Bolton to read . the pattern be clear and it can not be allow to continue . the EFL want this Bill . Most club across the english league support this Bill . most importantly , fan want this Bill . I genuinely ask why the Conservatives do not . what make it even more frustrating be the political opportunism we be see . when in government , the conservative party bring forward an almost identical Bill to the one we be debate today . now in opposition , they seem prepared to vote against the Bill not because the policy have change , but because the politic have change . that be not leadership ; that be put party before the future of our club and the community that they serve . the truth be that there be more than enough money in english football to sustain the entire pyramid . the problem be how that money be distribute . last year , 25 club receive 92 % of the game ' s revenue , while 67 other club be leave to fight over the remain 8 % . the new regulator will have the tool to help fix that and to ensure that club be run properly , sustainably and in the good interest of the people they represent . this Bill be a chance to safeguard the heritage , the future and the very soul of english football . I support it proudly on behalf of Derby , and I urge colleague across the House to do the same . let we protect the game before it be too late . let I begin by draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I rise to speak today with a sense of relief , because read football club have finally be sell . I be one of thousand in the stadium in my constituency during the May bank holiday weekend when we hear that the sale have finally go through . the relief and joy in the crowd be palpable , and we all chant , " we ' ve get our reading back . " it be the last game of the season , and because the Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , be present on the Front Bench , I will not mention the score . as well as the relief about the sale , however , I share fan ' deep frustration , because we should never have have to fight so hard to save our club . I be so glad to welcome a number of read fan who be sit in the Gallery , have travel to Parliament to witness this historic piece of legislation . just a few short month ago , our club — one of the old in english football — be on the brink of expulsion from the English football league . its decline be drive by governance failure , absentee ownership and the ultimate toothlessness of the exist regulation . we be so close to lose our club , not just to relegation but to administration or even insolvency . in the bad week , it seem that I be call the EFL and prospective bidder and other stakeholder almost every other day try to find a solution . thankfully , our club be finally sell , but it could so easily have go the other way — and for too many club , such as Bury and Macclesfield , it have go the other way . More than 50 club in the top six tier of the english man ' s game have go into administration since 1992 , which show that the game be in deep need of repair and of independent regulation . even today club such as Sheffield Wednesday suffer from similar issue , and I pay tribute to all my labour colleague in that city who be fight so hard for their club , as well as my hon . friend the Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) and many other member across the House . yet it should not be up to mps and fan to mount rescue campaign . fan should not be the one organise petition , stage protest or become forensic accountant to hold the owner to account . yet read fan do everything , from march in the street to work with member from across the House . over 10 , 000 fan sign my petition to hold an inquiry into read ' s absent owner , and many come to watch the Westminster Hall debate that I lead in March . I even have the assistance of fan when pore over the complex corporate structure of read football club in the hope of find a legal solution . meanwhile , I relentlessly pester Ministers , speak to the EFL , and meet the shadow regulator . I want to say a big thank you to the Sell before we Dai campaign , the Supporters Trust at Reading , the non - governmental organisation Fair Game , and all the mps from all party who work alongside we . the burden place on supporter by all this be enormous , emotionally , financially and physically . fan should not have to go through this : we need strong and smart regulation . as I have say before , any regulator must pass the reading test . that mean have the power to disqualify unfit owner and , crucially , to force a sale when a club ' s future be at risk . I thank the Minister for her constructive and serious engagement throughout the Committee consideration . I be especially glad to hear her strong response to the amendment table in Committee by my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) on the regulator ' s power to force divestment from unsuitable owner , and , have read she on - the - record response , I be grateful for her clarification . she explain , for instance , that the regulator may appoint an interim officer to assist a club to operate effectively in the owner ' s absence ; may require a club to change its constitution if that be the most appropriate way to secure an unsuitable owner ' s removal ; and may , in the most extreme case , force a rogue owner to divest at no minimum price , direct that owner to take no part in the running of the club in the meantime . I hope that the Minister will reaffirm those point in her wind - up speech today , to make it clear to all that the Bill do pass the reading test . this Bill have be a long time come , and I thank everyone who work on it , include those in the previous Government under the leadership of Dame Tracey Crouch and her fan - lead review , as well as the previous Secretary of State and Minister for Sport . I be incredibly relieved that the Bill be here , and it reflect the broad cross - society consensus , and what be until very recently a cross - party consensus , that we need this regulation , which be sorely lack from the game . my hon . friend be make a great speech . apparently , 80 % of fan support this Bill , but recent polling have the conservative party at 16 % . do she agree that these fact alone should give Conservative Front Benchers pause for thought before they oppose the Bill ? my hon . friend make a very good point . I be very surprised to see Conservative Front Benchers whip their colleague to oppose a Bill that they have previously introduce in part and support . we have build a cross - society consensus because of the work of Dame Tracey and many other like she , and we should respect that work and the importance of regulate football so that it be financially sustainable . anyone who have read the fan - lead review will know that it ultimately suggest that football should be give back to the fa and the league themselves . our position be to accelerate that now , rather than appoint a labour regulator . the approach of the conservative party here and in the Lords have be to delay this Bill and any progress make on regulation for far too many month , during which my club have struggle to go on without any independent regulation . I would like to see some reflection from Conservative Front Benchers about what that mean not just for reading , but for many club that be wait for the regulator to come in . let reading be one of the last club that have to fight this hard to survive , and let this Bill be the turning point . let we do what the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , have say : let we crack on with this Bill . I have hope to come to the House today with a spring in my step , have see the sale of Morecambe FC go through . instead , Morecambe FC and our town have be put through hell over the past week or so , and we still can not see the end of it . More than 10 day ago , the EFL approve a buyer , Panjab Warriors , which be ready and willing to buy . clearance have be grant , and over 14 month - worth of fund — a significant amount — have already be pump into the football club by the new buyer . the current owner , Jason Whittingham — operate as the Bond Group — say he be ready to sell , but instead of get the deal do , he have , for whatever reason , stall . he have delay and give excuse , and he have try to dismiss the board . in fact , it be only through the good intention of the local board member , and the responsibility that they feel towards Morecambe , that they return to try to facilitate the sale . but yet again , Jason stall , so now the board have go again . Panjab Warriors , which have already pour a lot of money into the club , have make it clear that everything be ready from its end , but the sale have still not be complete . most distressingly , staff and player have not be pay their full wage . I have receive email from constituent who work for the club and who be desperately worried about how they will pay their bill . our local citizen advice bureau and food bank have have to step in , because that be what we do in Morecambe : we look after our own . tomorrow , the club be due to pay £ 40 , 000 in vat . unless the sale go through , there be no way the club can meet this obligation . until now , I have restrain myself from use the full extent of parliamentary privilege in this matter , because my focus have be on get the sale do . I have hold my tongue while the EFL go through its due diligence process , and I have implore Jason Whittingham directly to just get on with the sale . but my restraint have not produce the progress that I have hope for , so I now feel duty bind to use parliamentary privilege to lay out what I see . I suspect that Jason Whittingham have build a house of card , and it be now fall down around his ear . there be mention of further unspecified investor , even at this final stage , and there be a suspicion that the club be be use to leverage his personal financial situation . Morecambe FC be be hold hostage , and it break my heart . Morecambe FC be the cornerstone of our community , and what be happen in Morecambe show exactly why this Bill be need . the like of Jason Whittingham should never have be allow to buy a football club . last week , the Secretary of State answer a question in this House about the sale , and I thank she and the Minister for Sport for all their support behind the scene in deal with this unfold disaster . this Labour Government have stand by my community and , frankly , I be baffle as to why the Conservatives be oppose this Bill . I know what a football club mean to a town such as Morecambe . this Bill be a crucial step to stop other town like Morecambe go through this heartache . I urge member across the House to please support this Bill , and I say to Jason , " come on , sign the damn paperwork ! " I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I also associate myself with the tribute from my hon . friend the Minister after the tragic death of Diogo Jota . my son be a Liverpool fan , and his generation of Liverpool fan regard he as one of the fine player in the club , so it be very sad news for they . I rise to speak to my two amendment to the Bill : amendment 12 and the link new clause 6 . I also support new clause 13 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Caerphilly ( Chris Evans ) . this be a great Bill that will improve football and the financial stability of club , but I want to raise the failing of the great game of football with regard to the financial wellbeing of player . these amendment seek to address ongoing financial grooming and disregard for player welfare in the football industry . I believe this be an historic opportunity to reform football governance in England for the long - term good of club , supporter and player . however , to leave out the wellbeing , protection and long - term security of player — the very people who drive the game , whom we see week in and week out , in the stand and on television , and who be the beat heart of football — would be a fundamental mistake . I have write a letter to the Secretary of State , support by over a dozen member of Parliament and 319 current and former professional player , coach and manager across the game , include many legend of the game . many of those have be victim of financial grooming and fraud . they have write , alongside I and other member , to express our strong support for the introduction of an independent football regulator , and to urge that player welfare be include in the regulator ' s remit . the current system be fail too many player . issue affect player welfare span financial exploitation and mental health problem to retirement transition and dementia . the support system be fragment , opaque and often reactive at well . despite the Professional Footballers ' Association mandate , too many player feel unsupported , unprotected or unheard . these be not just historic problem ; they be happen now . this be not simply a matter of correct the past . new form of financial exploitation be appear today , particularly through digital platform and sophisticated form of financial exploitation and grooming . some of the individual involve remain active in football , and operate unchecked and outside meaningful oversight . player , especially young one , continue to face avoidable risk , such as predatory financial advice and abuse , post - career mental health problem and financial crisis , and in many case the lifelong consequence of concussion . this be a rare and timely legislative moment . the Football Governance Bill be a once - in - a - generation opportunity to embed protection for everyone in the game — not just club and investor , but player too . include player welfare in the regulator ' s scope would ensure that minimum standard , transparency and accountability be apply across football . a regulated environment would provide strong co - ordination between the club , the premier league , the EFL , the PFA , the fa , the League Managers Association , and other associate organisation , ultimately benefit all party . football must be more than financially sustainable ; it must also be ethically sound . that mean protect the health , dignity , welfare and future of the player who give everything to the sport . I urge the Government to ensure that player welfare be not overlook as this important legislation move forward . my amendment 12 seek to safeguard the current and former player involve in English football who have be victim of financial abuse , mismanagement or fraud , or who be at risk of become victim of financial abuse , mismanagement and fraud . my new clause 6 seek to embed measure aim at achieve the financial abuse , mismanagement and fraud objective . unfortunately , we see financial abuse and groom across the sport , music , medium and cultural industry ; football be not unique . however , this be a unique opportunity for the regulation of football that could lead as an example for other area . I want to finish by say that this be classist abuse of young and bud talent . my hon . friend talk about the class system . it be tell that in other country that perhaps have less class - base society , football be recognise as culture . do he agree that football should be recognise in this country on a par with other cultural opportunity such as the theatre and opera ? I absolutely do . as a Leeds United fan , I know that we definitely cross the spectrum from sport to culture — everybody have probably see " the Damned United " . in a country such as Spain , football go across the cultural spectrum , but the ownership of club be also with the fan and not with oligarch — as the former Chelsea owner be — or other . there be a different cultural aspect to it in other european country . as I be say , this be classist abuse of young and budding talent that exploit their life for the benefit of financially high - power middleman . labour ' s drive mission be to protect work people against exploitation . let we include football player in our party ' s found mission and give they the protection they deserve . it be a pleasure to speak once again on this important Bill . I happily declare an interest as a season ticket holder at Selhurst Park and long - term fan of Crystal Palace . I be still bask in the glory of our Wembley triumph in May . I promise to stop talk about it soon , but I hope to milk it for another couple of month if I can . this hugely overdue Bill have wide support from fan and community across our country , as evidence by its adoption of the key recommendation of the 2021 fan - lead review . the central insight of the review be that , as we all know , what be essentially true about football be that it be not like any other industry and can not be treat as such . football club be more than just local business . across our country , they sit at the heart of our community , as Dartford football club do in my constituency . they be anchor institution , culturally and economically , and I hope that hon . member on both side of the House will support the Bill to put in place a new set of rule to protect club , empower fan and keep club where they belong : at the heart of our community . for that reason , it be a privilege to serve on the Bill Committee — the third of my first year in this place ; I hesitate to claim that it be a parliamentary hat trick . what set that Committee apart be the Opposition ' s baffle approach to the legislation , as we can see on the amendment paper today . we be tell on the Committee ' s first day that the reason the conservative party be against the Bill , despite have introduce it in the last Parliament , be that despite it be close in spirit and letter to the previous version , it now represent a clear case of over - regulation , in the word of the Leader of the Opposition . in the sit day that follow , a blizzard of amendment be visit on the Committee by the Opposition , the majority of which increase the power , scope and responsibility of the regulator . for instance , there be an amendment to investigate and possibly cap agent ’ fee , which I notice have not return on Report , and one on alcohol in football ground , which have return as new clause 1 , as well as a range of other matter . do my hon . friend not think it be a bit rich of the Opposition , give the problem they have in the 1980 when they do not stamp out hooliganism and instead think that the way forward be to pen fan in behind electrify fence and even to introduce ID card , to claim that they be now stand up for football fan ? I do think that the Conservative Government ' s attitude in the 1980s be to treat football fan as less than human . I would not wish to say that Opposition Members be not football fan , but the empty terrace on their side of the Chamber bespeak a lack of interest in the Bill . the Opposition ' s amendment that be design to increase the scope and responsibility of the regulator would also increase the cost of the regulator to club , which be another of the Opposition ' s complaint . they be at pain to try to point out that the regulator will cost fan dear , but their amendment would increase that cost . what we need , and what the Bill provide , be an agile and lean independent regulator whose effort can not be divert from the key objective , which be to create a financially sustainable football pyramid that be responsive to fan . I will touch briefly on a couple of the other amendment table for discussion today . I be sympathetic to the aim of new clause 3 , table by the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , and I echo other ' comment that the approach of the hon . Gentleman and his party to the Bill have be incredibly constructive , in contrast with that of the official Opposition . new clause 3 would set out in legislation a requirement for all these different match to be free to air . while I be sympathetic to that , I do not think the hon . Gentleman ' s new clause — or indeed anything specify such a thing on the statute book — be wise , because the Bill ' s intention be not to get involve in commercial deal . however , I would like to see more top - class football on free - to - air television in order to give young fan the chance to watch more than just highlight on video or social medium . on amendment 10 and 11 , I must confess strong agreement with my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) and what he be seek to achieve . the separation of club and home ground , both past and present , as we see with Sheffield Wednesday — a case that I know that be very dear to my hon . friend ' s heart — invariably end in serious jeopardy for the club . as he say , it invite speculator to treat ground as just another asset , rather than something central to their community , and , apart from anything else , it cause major problem when club change hand . it be an issue that need to be address . I also agree with the point my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East make in Committee about want the state of the game report , which the regulator will have to produce , to be bring forward as soon as possible so that its analysis can be use to broker a financial distribution deal across the pyramid at the early opportunity . in our manifesto ahead of last year ' s election , Labour say that we be committed to make Britain the good possible place in the world to be a football supporter . the Bill deliver this commitment for a sustainable game , put club at the centre of our community and fan at the heart of our game . it be a privilege to have the chance to speak in this debate on an issue of such importance in legislation — one that go to the heart of our national identity — which be the future of the beautiful game . football , like Shakespeare , the Beatles , and James Bond , be one of this country ' s great contribution to the world . not just a fantastic sport , but a global phenomenon and , arguably , our most successful cultural export . english football be watch by billion globally , with some of the most exciting player , club and story of any league . however , we must not allow that success to disguise the underlie fragility in the English football pyramid . too many club have collapse in recent year , with consequence ripple through entire community . in my constituency , while it have not collapse , the football club for Chipping Norton have be away from the town for more than a decade . its ground be buy and sell off by what I shall refer to as a rather unscrupulous individual with little regard for the club , the town or its fan , and that loss be still deeply feel . however , there be also hope . down the road at Banbury United , supporter , feed up with mismanagement , take matter into their own hand . they have transform the club , take it over and turn it into a community benefit society , with revenue from shirt sale and matchday ticket now go back into support local group and good cause . after two successive promotion , they have prove that this model be not a barrier to success on the pitch . I know that the Secretary of State and the Minister have many call on their time , but I can assure they that they would both be give a warm welcome should they choose to grace the hallowed turf of the Spencer stadium in Banbury , and I once again invite they to my constituency to do just that . while neither Chipping Norton nor the Puritans be within the scope of this legislation because they be not high enough up the football pyramid — not yet , anyway — their story and those of countless other up and down show why this reform be so necessary . my hon . friend talk eloquently about the need for well regulation . we have just hear that he be a fan of Banbury United and that my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) be a fan of Crystal Palace . do that not show that there be complete agreement across the football pyramid that there need to be well regulation in football and that that would benefit all level of the game ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I also congratulate Crystal Palace on their FA Cup win and , as a Liverpool fan , I look forward to their receive their runner - up medal in the community shield in a couple of week ' time . as I say in my intervention early , this have the support of 80 % of fan , so I find it simply stagger that Conservative Members have decide that , have put forward this legislation , they be now against it for who know what reason . too many club have be leave vulnerable to reckless ownership and financial mismanagement , and it simply can not continue . the Bill be a vital step to ensure that football be sustainable for the benefit of fan and their community — both now and into the future . it will promote financial stability , prevent rogue owner and director from cause harm and give supporter a strong voice in how their club be run , safeguard both the game and the strength of community that it foster . my hon . friend will know that my football club , Southend United , nearly disappear because of mismanagement . do he agree that the Bill will make sure that we keep these football club at the heart of our community , because , ultimately , that be where they belong ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . when we talk about rogue owner , I be only surprised that the hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) , with his year of experience in this sphere , decide to walk out of the Chamber . but we will leave that for now and move on . as I have say , the previous Government strut on to the pitch full of promise , but when the whistle blow , they pass sideways , run down the clock and then bottle it at the big moment . in contrast , this Government have show intent and be drive the ball forward . I be proud to support this Bill in the Lobby tonight . I be so grateful to hon . member who have not just speak in this debate today , but bring the real - life experience and voice of fan into this Chamber . this have be Parliament at its good , ensure that those affect be finally hear and that action be take . I be grateful to all member who have speak , regardless of whether the Government be choose to accept the amendment that they have put forward . I wish to address some of the very many valid point that have be make during the course of this debate . I shall start with the issue of player welfare , which be clearly of such concern to so many member from all part of the House . it be raise by my hon . friend the Members for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) , for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) , for Caerphilly ( Chris Evans ) , for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) and for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) and the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) among other . it have also be raise by many , many other member over the course of the past year both with I and my hon . friend , the Minister for Sport . I wish to reassure the House that although the amendment around player welfare do not fit within the scope of this Bill , that do not mean that the Government do not treat it with the urgency and the utmost seriousness that it demand . as my hon . friend the Minister say , we be privileged to meet recently a number of family who have be affect by this and who have be campaign for justice for far too long . that include John Stiles , to whom many hon . member have pay tribute . he speak very movingly about the experience of his father and his family . they be not wealthy people and they deserve well treatment . as a government , we be determined to grip this issue . we be clear that football can and must do more . I will be pleased to update the House as we make progress in that pursuit of justice . I also thank the hon . member for Dewsbury and Batley ( Iqbal Mohamed ) for his point about secondary ticketing , and the associate point that he make about the cost of football , which for many fan , particularly in the premier league , be of significant concern . this game belong to its fan ; it be nothing without its fan . it be important that fan be able to access the game that they love and that they have build . he will know that the Government waste no time in open a consultation about secondary ticketing across the board . our message be clear : the time be up for ticket tout . the consultation that my right hon . friend the Business Secretary and I launch seek to work out how , not whether , to act on this issue . we be shortly about to publish the response to that consultation , and it will be before the House imminently . I be really grateful to all hon . member who have stand up for fan . whether they be music fan , football fan or other fan , it really matter that they be hear . do the Secretary of State agree that this Bill put fan at the heart of where they should be , and that have the Bill be in place early , club like mine — Bolton Wanderers — would not have come close to collapse ? I live just down the road from my hon . friend in Bolton and have many friend who be directly affect by what happen at Bolton Wanderers , so I thank she for her tireless support for the fan and the town . many people do not appreciate until they have be through a situation like that , as she and I have , that it do not just affect the football fan in the town . Bolton Wanderers stand for its town , as Wigan Athletic do ; it be part of our identity and our pride . it be also part of our family inheritance . the chairwoman of my supporter ' club use to go to the football with her dad when she be a little girl . she now take her child , and they will take their child . football club be institution that stand at the centre of our town , and they deserve to be pass on to the next generation as part of our civic inheritance . my hon . friend the Member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) mention what happen with Bolton Wanderers . fan of read FC across Berkshire , include in Bracknell , experience something similar when they be able to support the club to be save from an unfit owner . do the Secretary of State agree that it be so important that we pass the Bill so that we can prevent what happen to read from ever happen to a football club again ? when my club Wigan Athletic be in trouble because of poor ownership for the second time , I use those precise word . I say that this must be the last time this ever happen to football fan , but as my hon . friend rightly say , here we be with so many member tell heartbreaking story about the near loss of their club — so I could not agree with he more . I want to acknowledge to the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) and for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) that although we may disagree about the good way to improve access and protect the financial sustainability of the game , I do not doubt for one moment their sincerity in want to make sure that far more people can experience the joy of football . the Minister for Sport say to I early that it have be a pleasure to work with the hon . member for Cheltenham to get this Bill on to the statute book , so I be grateful to he for his work . I turn to new clause 9 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , who have do extraordinary work throughout the passage of the Bill . I want to address the point that he do not have time to speak to early . we absolutely understand why he be pursue this matter , and he be right to do so , but we believe that the clause be not necessary . I be happy to pass on the commitment that the Minister for Sport make to I : she will write to my hon . friend with a full explanation of why the clause be not necessary , and a copy of the letter will be place in the House of Commons Library . on behalf of the whole House , I thank my hon . friend for the expertise that he have bring to bear . as I try to set out , my intention be simply to draw attention to whether the regulator have the power — it do not necessarily have to use it — to intervene if the domestic competition that all club engage in be be damage by competition like the club world cup , from which a handful of club make multimillion of pound . I want to make sure that the regulator have the power to deal with that . we believe that it do . as I say , the Minister will write to he on that point and place a copy of the letter in the Library so that the whole House can understand the Government ' s position . let I turn to the hon . member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) . I do not really know where to start with this , to be honest , but I be determined to give it a try . when it come to the Government ' s preferred candidate , I gently point out to the hon . member that this be a candidate that have be strongly endorse by the cross - party Culture , Media and Sport Committee . he be appoint by the last Conservative Government to the board of Channel 4 and , as I make clear a moment ago , he be on the list that I inherit from the Conservative Government and the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , who now serve as the shadow Secretary of State , along with a conservative donor as well . it be astonishing that the shadow Minister have come to this House , belatedly , with allegation of cronyism , and that the good and only defence that he have be able to offer for this breathtaking hypocrisy be that his right hon . friend , the shadow Secretary of State , do not have a clue what be go on in his own Department . can he not see how absurd that be ? will she give way ? of course I will . I would love to know the answer . let I explain , for the benefit of Members who be not in the room at the start of the debate , that the discussion be about the fact that the gentleman in question say in the Select Committee that he be not approach by the then Minister , but by civil servant . the Secretary of State be try to say now that her Department be not under investigation . be that correct ? be you under investigation for this appointment ? order . first , I be not . secondly , the Secretary of State come very close to unparliamentary language in accuse another hon . member of hypocrisy ; I be sure she do not intend that . out of respect for you , Mr Deputy Speaker , I be happy to clarify . I think that the shadow Minister might be a bit confused . to add to the confusion , I refer he to a point make strongly by my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) about the way in which the shadow Minister have make an astonishing about - turn ; have call for strong regulation , he now call for weak regulation . [ interruption . ] if he do not want to listen to my word , perhaps I can let he listen to his own : " follow year of misery and uncertainty for fan … I welcome the news on an independent football regulator . will the Minister assure my constituent that the regulator will have sufficient power to deal with regulatory breach and strengthen those ownership test ? " — [ Official Report , 23 February 2023 ; Vol . 728 , c . 343 . ] well , I prefer his early work . let I say that although the shadow Secretary of State no long back his own Bill and will not act , this Government will . let I turn to something that be very close to my heart : the experience that be give voice by many member today , include my hon . friend the Members for Crewe and Nantwich ( Connor Naismith ) , for Dartford and for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) , and especially my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) , who have be a tireless champion for read through very difficult time . she say , " let reading be the last " , and she be absolutely right . in the year that football fan have wait for this piece of legislation to come on to the statute book and for the promise from all those year ago to be make good , too many people have experience the hell that she and so many other have be through . it be only fitting that I finish with a reference to my hon . friend the Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) , who have be tireless in her defence of her club and her town . I have the privilege of go to Morecambe to meet the Shrimps and the board , which she rightly reference and which have do so much for the club . she outline the impact more powerfully than any of we could , as well as the strength of feeling about owner who refuse to sell their club even when the impact of that would be to bring those proud club to the verge of collapse . it have be a privilege to work closely with she , although I wish it have be on something more positive , as I know she do . I want to make it clear from this Dispatch Box that this Government take a very dim view of owner who treat our club as plaything , rather than as the custodian that they be . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale and all the member of this House — or most of the member of this House — for a constructive debate . I commend the Bill to the House . order . have lower the temperature , I trust that I can now rely on the shadow Minister to maintain the lower temperature . if not , I might have to intervene . with leave of the House , it be my pleasure to sum up this Report stage . we have hear today that there be common ground on many of the issue face football , but as I highlight in my opening speech , we disagree on the solution . this be a Government who be currently under investigation for appoint a Labour crony to chair an independent football regulator . they may not like it , but that be the reality . our amendment 18 seek to end the politicisation of such role and to ensure transparency on future appointment . we believe strongly that no member would vote this measure down , give that it seek to end cronyism over club and favour over fan . new clause 1 would deal with alcohol at football ground , as we have hear in the debate , and we have support from the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) and from the Liberal Democrats . we believe this ban be outdate . football fan should not be treat with a two - tier approach when it come to be able to drink in the stand . we will be press this new clause to a division because we on the Opposition Benches be on the side of football fan . we do not want this nanny state approach to continue ; we want to make sure that football fan be treat with the respect that they deserve , and we will see tonight whose side this Government be really on . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey David Mundell Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Ashley Fox Rebecca Smith Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Josh Fenton - Glynn Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Keir Mather Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 167 , Noes 346 . question accordingly negative . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 28 April ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 3 - free to air coverage " ( 1 ) the Independent Football Regulator must require that every season — ( a ) at least ten Premier League football match , ( b ) the League Cup Final , and ( c ) the Championship , League One and League two playoff final be make available for live broadcast on free - to - air television channel in the United Kingdom . ( 2 ) for the purpose of subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) the match must include a representative selection across different club and time in the season , subject to reasonable consideration of scheduling and broadcast logistic . ( 3 ) in this section ' free - to - air television ' mean a service that satisfy the qualifying condition of such a service define by Section 2 of the 1996 Communications Act . " — ( Max Wilkinson . ) this new clause would mandate a minimum of ten Premier League match , the League Cup Final and the Championship , League One and League two playoff final on free - to - air television channel . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann Davies Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Wera Hobhouse Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Ben Lake James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Bobby Dean Tom Morrison Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Josh Fenton - Glynn Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Keir Mather Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 86 , Noes 340 . question accordingly negative . clause 59 - decision by the IFR on application under section 57 Amendment make : 4 , page 48 , line 34 , leave out " a " and insert " the " . — ( Stephanie Peacock . ) this amendment correct a grammatical error . clause 83 - internal review Amendments make : 5 , page 67 , line 40 , leave out " 14 " and insert " 28 " . this amendment increase the time period for the Board of the IFR to carry out an internal review of a reviewable decision from 14 to 28 day . amendment 6 , page 68 , line 2 , leave out " 14 " and insert " 28 " . this amendment increase the time period for a committee of the Expert Panel of the IFR to carry out an internal review of a reviewable decision from 14 to 28 day . amendment 7 , page 68 , line 5 , leave out " within " and insert " before the end of " . — ( Stephanie Peacock . ) this amendment be to ensure consistency with the wording use in subsection ( 4 ) and ( 6 ) of clause 83 . schedule 2 - the Independent Football Regulator Amendment propose : 18 , page 87 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) any political interest of , and political donation make by , the prospective chair of the Board , must all be declare as part of the appointment process , and publish before the chair ' s pre - appointment hearing with the Culture , Media and Sport Select Committee . " — ( Mr French . ) question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Ellie chown Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey David Mundell Tessa Munt Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Ashley Fox Rebecca Smith Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Josh Fenton - Glynn Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Sarah Sackman Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Keir Mather Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 178 , Noes 338 . question accordingly negative . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it have be 14 year since the Culture , Media and Sport Committee first call for change for football fan , and four year since Dame Tracey Crouch begin the fan - lead review that set out to fix the foundation of football and end the misery that too many football fan have be force to endure for far too long . we have have four year of promise , and today we make good on those commitment . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) — the Minister for Sport — and Baroness Twycross , who have steer this Bill expertly and with care to get we to this place . I thank the civil servant in my Department , who have work tirelessly for many year to get to this point , and I particularly thank the Bill , policy and legal team , who will be as relieve and delighted as anybody to see this Bill finally become law . I also thank the many parliamentarian who have work so hard with we all to get this Bill into a well shape , particularly by strengthen the provision for fan in order to put they back at the heart of the game and to improve the backstop process . this be a light - touch regulator that will help to enhance the game , and I be really grateful to all those parliamentarian for their support . I pay tribute to somebody who have become not just an inspiration for a lot of football fan around the country , but a friend to we all : Dame Tracey Crouch . her fan - lead review highlight how too many football fan have be leave with nowhere to turn when face with reckless owner , financial mismanagement and threat to their club ' s very existence . her dedication and expertise have be integral to get we to where we be today . although I be sad that I be unable to pay tribute to the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) , who steer the Bill through its first stage under the last government and who no long support his own legislation , I want to acknowledge that , from the outset , it have be a cross - party effort to stand by football fan the length and breadth of our country . finally , I want to address our football fan , who be the good in the world . we be do this for you , because for too long you have be treat as an afterthought at good , or as a nuisance at bad , in a game that be only great because of you . this Bill be for Macclesfield , for Wigan , for Bury , for Bolton , for Derby , for Reading , for Sheffield Wednesday , for Morecambe and for many , many more club that have have to endure the misery of be put last when they should have be put first . we promise in our manifesto that we would end year of inaction , and make the change for which fan have fight for so long and which be so overdue . I be proud to be part of the win team that have put our fan back on the pitch and at the heart of the game , where they belong . I call the shadow Minister . here we be : the final opportunity for the Government and this House to trigger a VAR review before english football fan and the beautiful game be leave in tear . we can not support this expand Bill as draft , and we believe that pass it tonight risk harm the very game that it claim to protect . we all largely agree on the problem in football : we have a minority of greedy owner , with loyal fan leave powerless when a proud club be tear apart for profit or by reckless management . no one in this House want to see another Bury or Macclesfield , but let we be clear and honest with fan : this Bill will not stop a bad owner damage a club , market failure will not be remove , and club will not be bail out by this Government . the risk of a breakaway league will now grow , not shrink . this Bill risk replace financial mismanagement with political interference , poor governance with endless red tape , and the soul of our game with a new quango that grow year by year , unchallenged by real scrutiny or accountability to Parliament or fan . if we vote this Bill through tonight , we will not remove unaccountable owner ; we will only create more unaccountable bureaucrat . this amateur Government will strangle the growth of a great british success story , rather than enable it , while Reform still struggle to manage its five - a - side team after yet another scandal — sorry , four - a - side now . english football do not belong to politician ; it belong to the fan in the stand , the volunteer in the clubhouse and the kid pull on the shirt for the first time on a Sunday morning . yet this Bill open the door for mission creep on an extraordinary scale , with provision that would let any future Minister expand the regulator ' s power and the league cover at will . as draft , this Bill risk breach FIFA and UEFA ' s clear rule against Government overreach , put our club and national side in danger of sanction that would shame the country on the world stage . it set up a powerful new regulator with vast discretion , but precious little real democratic control , and it pile on cost that small club and fan simply can not bear . if the Minister think that big club will pay for this quango alone , she need to read her own impact report . ultimately , the fan always pay — through high ticket price and high merchandise price — all to stand on the same terrace on which generation have previously stand . the test of a good law be whether it solve a problem proportionately and properly , not whether it let Ministers feel that they have do something . this Bill fail that test , and fail it spectacularly . it treat our national game not as a living tradition root in local pride , but as an industry to be micromanage by the state . this be not how english football be build , and it be not how it will be sustain . on behalf of his Majesty ' s official opposition , I say clearly tonight that football be at its good when the player entertain the crowd and the referee go unnoticed , but this Bill risk create more referee than player — referee who answer not to club or supporter , but to Labour Ministers and mandarin . if this Bill pass , and we expect it will tonight , I can confirm to the House and to fan at home that a future Conservative Government will trigger a review of Labour ' s regulator as soon as possible , and if it be overreach and strangle club — [ interruption . ] order . we do not need any more of that disruption . if the regulator be overreach and strangle club with unnecessary red tape , as we believe it will under this Government , we will act decisively on behalf of fan to promote the english game again . the real threat to football ' s future be not a lack of regulator ; it be the erosion of competition and trust between owner , community and supporter . we would fix that with strong transparency rule — such as the rule that Labour Members have just vote against — as well as the well enforcement of exist law and real fan power , not a vast new quango lead by a Labour crony work three day a week on a salary of £ 130 , 000 . this shameful Labour Government be already under investigation have once again put their party first , with crony over club , favour over fan and greed over the beautiful game . tonight , the Conservatives will be vote against this Bill in good conscience , because our national game deserve well than a government whose only knowledge of football be free ticket and corporate prawn sandwich . it be worth note that Labour Members have tonight vote against fan have a drink on the terrace , while their minister drink alcohol in their corporate hospitality box for free . we will continue to stand up for the fan , not the bureaucrat create an even large nanny state . we will continue to stand up for healthy competition and local pride , not a one - size - fit - all state interference that will relegate english football among global competition . we will be ready to revisit this when , as be likely , it fail to deliver the promise be make , and to review it , to rein it in , to scrap it altogether and to give power back to our sporting body . that be the ultimate goal of the fan - lead review , as Labour Members would know if they have read it . football belong to the fan , and no badly draft act of Parliament should ever make we forget that . [ interruption . ] they think it ' s all over ! well , it will be for you . I know who you be . [ laughter . ] question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rosena Allin - Khan Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling John Grady Sarah Green Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Ed Miliband John Milne Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Matthew Patrick Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Keir Mather Taiwo Owatemi Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore David Mundell Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Shivani Raja David Reed Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Paul Holmes Joy Morrissey the House divide : Ayes 415 , Noes 98 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS that the draft Online Safety Super - Complaints ( Eligibility and Procedural Matters ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 9 June , be approve . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) question agree to . adjournment ( Summer and Conference Recesses ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 25 ) , that this House , at its rise on Tuesday 22 July 2025 , do adjourn until Monday 1 September 2025 ; and at its rise on Tuesday 16 September 2025 , do adjourn until Monday 13 October 2025 . — ( Lucy Powell . ) question agree to . Electoral Commission [ Relevant Documents : Third Report of the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , re - appointment of an Electoral Commissioner , HC 934 . ] order , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , pray that his Majesty will re - appoint Dr Katy Radford MBE as an Electoral Commissioner with effect from 1 September 2025 for the period end on 31 August 2029 . — ( Lucy Powell . ) combat Sports for child : safeguard Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to lead this debate on safeguard child in combat sport . I do so with a heavy heart and a profound sense of responsibility , because today I speak for a young constituent who can no long speak for himself . Alex Eastwood be just 15 year old when , just over one year ago , he step into a ring for a kickboxe bout and never return home . he be a son , a brother , a friend — describe by his family as the heart and soul of their home . he have dream , hope , and an infectious passion for sport . he be a boy who fill every room with laughter and warmth . his father Ste and his mother Nikita be with we today in the Public Gallery , as be representative from Leigh Day , the law firm that represent the family at the recent inquest . I have previously meet his brother Jake and Frankie in preparation for speak today . Alex ' s family have show extraordinary courage in the face of unimaginable grief by turn their pain into a powerful call for change . Alex ' s death be not simply a tragic accident but a preventable loss , and it have highlight a dangerous gap in our duty to protect child . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) Alex die follow an unsanctioned exhibition kickboxe match at a gym in Wigan . that mean it be not sanction by any national govern body and fall outside the jurisdiction of Kickboxing GB — the only organisation for the sport in the UK that be officially recognise by both Sport England and the World Association of Kickboxing Organisations , which be recognise by the International Olympic Committee . the fight be mean to be " light contact " , hold as part of a charity event , but it stray tragically and fatally into danger . Alex ' s opponent on the night be two year old and have experience and training in full contact fighting . as the match be unsanctioned , no independent ringside doctor or paramedic be present . instead , there be two first responder with first aid qualification . Alex compete in three round . after become disorient , he be assist to the ring floor . he be then take by ambulance to the Royal Albert Edward Infirmary in Wigan and later transfer to the Royal Manchester child ' s hospital after he be find to have a catastrophic bleed on the brain . he undergo surgery but die in hospital three day later . a four - day inquest at Bolton coroner ' s court , which conclude on Thursday 12 June , examine the circumstance of Alex ' s death , the safety measure in place at the time , and the broad regulatory environment for child participate in combat sport . I commend the hon . gentleman ; this be a very difficult subject and he be speak with admirable compassion and understanding . I be sure the family appreciate that . do the hon . Gentleman agree that while there be a moral duty and a legal obligation to protect child and young people in sport through the creation and promotion of a safe environment that protect they from harm , each sport have different requirement when it come to fulfil that obligation ? while it be reasonable that a football coach do not need to lay hand on a child in any case , it be also reasonable that a karate instructor must position child , and that must require regulation and Government action . do the hon . Member agree that there must be a sport - by - sport approach to safeguarding and regulation ? I be grateful to the hon . member for be here tonight , and I know that the family will be grateful for the interest he have show . I will go on to talk about the lack of regulation and what the family be call for . I know that the family would want I to thank the coroner in this inquest — Michael Pemberton — for his approach to Alex ' s case . he describe the match that Alex be part of as " chaotic and somewhat disjointed " . there be no national governing body oversight , and no clear or enforce safety standard . Gordon Mitchell , head of welfare and governance at Kickboxing GB tell the inquest that the organisation would never sanction a light contact bout in a ring . he explain that such match be permit only on mat , where mitigate factor such as fighter step off the mat allow referee to step in , in the event of a mismatch or escalating risk . on the broad framework govern child ' s participation in combat sport , the inqu hear that standard around safety , medical oversight and safeguarding vary widely , and in many case be absent all together . in the word of the coroner , the level of confidence in organisational safeguard that people would expect to exist within the sport be " sadly lack " . if a match be unofficial or unsanctioned , there be no guideline minimum standard that must be meet to provide safeguarding for a child participant , no minimum standard of medical support that might be require , no maximum round , no period of rest , no welfare check on participant , and no risk assessment and critical incident plan . it should stop we all in our track to learn that in this country , child can be place in combat situation without clear , enforceable national protection . Alex ' s family do everything right — everything a love family would do . they encourage he to get involve in a range of sport and activity and support he when it become clear that he have a talent for kickboxe . they enable he to thrive in what he love do and to become a six - time world champion . however , as the inquest make clear , they and Alex be fail by a lack of safeguarding , responsibility and regulation . every single day , child up and down the country take part in activity like Alex do . they lace up glove , put on headgear and step into training hall and ring , with no minimum standard in place to ensure their safety . parent who just want the good for their child , and who want they to be fit and healthy , to enjoy sport and to discover and nurture their talent be send their child to participate in contact sport without realise the risk . many people do not know that there be sanction and unsanctioned bout , or what that mean in term of safety . many people do not know that there be no one govern body for kickboxe and that membership be not mandatory . that be the shocking reality expose by the inquest into Alex ' s death . it be the reason the coroner take the highly unusual step of issue to the Department for Culture , Media and Sport a regulation 28 prevention of future death report before the inquest have conclude . in that report , he raise concern that " there be no guidance or regulation of contact sport involve child ' s participation . " he say that " action should be take to prevent future death " and that the Government " have the power to take such action . " I welcome the fact that the Secretary of State have task her Department with explore way to urgently improve the safety and welfare of child in martial art and combat sport and to ensure that it be always a priority . urgent action must follow , and I would be grateful for any further update that the Minister can provide today . what Alex ' s family be demand be simple : clear , enforceable national protection for child in combat sport . that would replace the current patchwork in which there be no consistency in rule , no oversight and no accountability . from this tragedy , a well system must emerge . we owe it to Alex and to his family , we owe it to every parent who believe in good faith that their child be protect by the rule operate around sport and we owe it to every child who step into a ring or on to a mat , trust that the adult around they be keep they safe . no child should lose their life participate in a sport they love . I finish with the word of Alex ' s parent : " our life have be change forever . Alex ' s future be take — and with it , part of ours too . we miss he every second . now , all we have leave be memory , but we also have the responsibility to make sure his death be not in vain and for his sake we will make sure we do that . " we can not bring Alex back , but we can ensure that his legacy be one that prevent such a tragedy from ever happen again . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Walton ( Dan Carden ) for secure this important debate and for his move speech . the death of his constituent , Alexander Eastwood , as a result of a kickboxe bout be devastating . I know that my hon . friend care deeply about child safeguarding and I can reassure he and the House that it be a priority for this Government . he advocate with care and think for his constituent , make a powerful and move speech — one that I have hear very clearly . in the time available to I , I will set out the Government ' s plan to strengthen safeguarding for child in combat sport . I will begin by outline key safeguarding issue in those sport ; then I will set out the Government ' s next step in address this incredibly important issue . first , I recognise that this be a debate that everyone would have hope we would not have to have . the tragic death of Alexander Eastwood be something we hope would never have happen . I be sure I speak for the whole House in extend our deep sympathy to his family , who be here this evening . as my hon . friend have say , they have show incredible courage . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State will be meet Alexander ' s family next week , and we be both commit to make sure that meaningful change happen so that no other family have to go through the pain that they have feel . it be a priority of my Department that the safety and wellbeing of child take part in sport be paramount . Alexander ' s death be such a tragedy , and it have make it very clear that more need to be do to protect the safety of child in combat sport . ahead of the inquest into the death of Alexander Eastwood , the assistant coroner for Manchester West file a regulation 28 report to prevent future death . the report highlight specific area of concern for child in martial art . in her response , the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport set out plan to work with the martial art sector to address those concern . in consider our next step , we must take account of the entire martial art sector and its complexity . the sector be make up of many different discipline , include judo , taekwondo , kickboxing and more . many , though not all , of these discipline have publicly fund national governing body . many provider across the sector have robust safety measure in place . national govern body set minimum safeguarding standard for their affiliated club and competition to comply with . these standard be in line with guidance issue by Sport England , our arm ' s length body for grassroots sport . many club and competition be not affiliate with a publicly fund governing body . however , many unaffiliated provider choose to sign up to the safeguard code in martial art . organisation such as the British Martial Arts and Boxing Association support unaffiliated martial art provider to adopt the safeguard code . the code be fund by Sport England , and recognise club and association that demonstrate strong safeguarding practice against a set of minimum standard . provider with recognition under the code can display a logo on their promotional material to show participant that their safety measure have be vet . the coroner ' s report on the case of Alexander Eastwood highlight specific issue around club and competition that be not affiliate with a national govern body . we be now look into that as a matter of urgency . the coroner identify that without set standard , club and competition may not have adequate regulation around medical check and support , the number of round and period of rest , participant welfare check and critical incident plan . despite the programme in place to support robust safeguarding practice in martial art , unaffiliated provider be not require to meet any share safety standard . I recognise that coach and provider work hard to make martial art available to community across the country , and I recognise the work do by club and association to comply with the safeguard code in martial art , but there must be strong , consistent standard for safeguard child across all martial art . clearly , more must be do . club and competition across martial art should share consistent standard for safeguard child . parent and carer should be able to trust that appropriate safety measure be in place , regardless of where their child participate . exist safety standard for martial art set by Sport England and its partner must be robust and fit for purpose , but national standard must also translate into strong safety practice across all martial art . the sector should look to encourage as many club as possible to adopt share safety standard . the Government will consider what more can be do in this space . parent and carer deserve to be able to make informed decision about where their child participate in martial art . information on good safety practice and which club and competition meet share standard should be readily available to participant and their guardian . of course , the burden of find information should not only lie with participant and their guardian ; club and competition with robust safety practice should be support to promote the standard they meet . the Government be look at all these area to assess what more can be do to safeguard child in combat sport . as promise in her response to the coroner ' s report , the Secretary of State will meet the family of Alexander Eastwood to hear about their experience and view , and to discuss our thinking before we go into more detail publicly . I hope everyone can appreciate why that approach be be take . in addition , in response to the coroner ' s report on this case , my Department have task Sport England with work with the martial art sector on this issue . it will identify improvement and present a plan in the come month . that work will include develop guidance for the martial art sector and review the safeguard code for martial art to ensure that it reflect good practice and be fit for purpose . Sport England will also work with the NSPCC to help educate parent and carer on what to look for in choose where to participate in martial art . that will involve the NSPCC ' s keep your child safe in Sport Week — a week of educational programming in October . my Department be also explore way to strengthen safety standard in club and competition that be not affiliate with national governing body . we be have conversation with the martial art sector to understand how we can help parent and carer to be confident that their child will be safe when they participate . our aim will be to ensure that safeguard practice in martial art be consistent , effective and transparent . I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State , who have be up to see the family in the Gallery this evening and who will meet they next week . I know the family and the solicitor , Leigh Day , will be incredibly grateful for the thorough response the Minister have give tonight , put a lot of information on the record . these sport and activity for young people be so important for our community , and we do not want to put any young person off take up a sport , compete or become a professional in that sport . this be about safety ; it be about give parent the safety and security they need , and about something good come from Alex Eastwood ' s death . I be incredibly grateful to my hon . friend for his work , his move contribution and for put that important point on the record . as he say , sport should be a safe and welcoming environment that participant , parent and carer can have confidence in . many martial art provider work hard to safeguard child who participate under their supervision , and there be strong safety practice in place across many area of combat sport , but more must be do to ensure that safety standard be strong , consistent and transparent . standard of practice should be robust and widely adopt across the sector , and it should be clear to parent and carer which club and competition comply with share standard and which do not . nothing can bring Alexander back , but as the Secretary of State say to I before the debate , we be determined to work with his family to make sure that part of his legacy be real change , so that a tragedy like this never happen again . question put and agree to . House adjourn .