I be really grateful that the right hon . Gentleman have raise that point , and it be good that it be a point of agreement across the whole House . there be a time when large number of people in this House would have think that have gay man , lesbian or tran people in the armed force be anathema , and I be so glad that we have change . the shield on the wall up there be dedicate to member of Parliament who be kill in the second world war , and at least five , if not six , of they be gay man who give their life in defence of this country . Bravery be available to people regardless of their sexuality or their identity . the right hon . Gentleman be also absolutely right to refer to Terence . his report be an essential part of change the landscape in this country and make sure that compensation be available to the individual who be affect . we should acknowledge the fundamental truth that trans people have always be at the forefront of our movement . from Marsha P . Johnson in New York to Mark Ashton here in the UK , tran people and gender non - conform people have lead protest , shape policy and build community , often with little recognition or safety in return . at Stonewall , at section 28 protest , in the founding of support service and HIV charity , and at the heart of every movement that push we forward , trans people be there and they lead . we owe they a debt of gratitude , so to treat they now as a threat to the very movement they help build be wrong . we will not forget their role , and we will not leave they behind . Trans people deserve safety , dignity and the same freedom to live their life as anyone else , and under this government they will have it . on 29 August 1924 , Edward Carpenter have his 80th birthday . he have famously campaign for our right and live with his lover , George Merrill . indeed , he be probably the model for E . m . Forster ' s novel " Maurice " , which I think be publish only after E . m . Forster ' s death . Carpenter be a brave campaigner at a time when it be impossible to be brave . man be still be imprison with hard labour for homosexuality in 1924 , when he come to his 80th birthday , so it be a phenomenal act of bravery when every single member of the Labour Cabinet — there be a Labour Government in 1924 — sign a letter to Carpenter wish he a happy birthday . that kind of magnanimity should be the hallmark of our politic today . we be not yet the country that we could be , but in all we do in our hospital and our school , in our law and our language , in our foreign policy and our public service , this Government will uphold one principle : a little respect for all . let that be the legacy of this House .