I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the second time . the Access to Telecommunications Networks Bill seek to ensure that , wherever someone live , they can choose which operator their mobile phone will connect to . we have a Westminster Hall debate on this on Wednesday , so there be an inevitable element of repetition , but if something be worth say once , it be probably worth say twice , and there be good cross - party support for improve and speed up the roll - out of the share rural network . the network be the Government ' s scheme to increase 4 g coverage from 91 % to 95 % of the UK land mass by 2025 , and it be welcome , as be the Government ' s investment of half a billion pound on new mast for total notspot where no signal be available . however , the roll - out be not progress as quickly as we would like , so this Bill seek to improve or speed up the rate at which people in place in my constituency such as Cockshutt , Woore or West Felton get a usable phone signal from more than one provider wherever they travel in the local area . improve rural coverage be really important for all sort of reason . most importantly to I , it be one of the top issue raise by my constituent — I have a series of open meeting over the summer where it come up time and again as something that people find frustrating in their daily life — and if it be their issue , it be my issue . that be one of the reason why I have be so keen to pursue it in this place . accord to a survey for the Country Land and Business Association , 80 % of rural business owner say that improved connectivity would make the single large improvement to their business . that be partly because they struggle to recruit , which be link to poor public transport , but it be also important for the people they might want to employ to be able to access a wide range of job opportunity and to work flexibly from home in a way that be not always currently available to people in rural area . mobile phone have be cite as the default back - up option in a power cut once the copper landline network be switch off in the next couple of year . I emphasise how concern that is , particularly to elderly constituent who might be a little less familiar with " voice over internet " technology , as well as everybody in the area who be worried about what happen when a big power cut occur . because we be rural , our power be not put back online as quickly as in some urban area , and while back - up battery for router will last for one to two hour , we be sometimes off for much long than that . someone at home on their own in the dark and frightened might want to be able to call someone other than the emergency service in the event of a power cut . it be really important that people can access their mobile provider — whoever that might be — when the power be down . respondent to a survey recently conduct by Building Digital UK cite poor mobile coverage as a major factor exacerbate poor outcome from agricultural injury . I do not wish to dwell on disaster , but a couple of year ago we see a number of combine harvest fire across my constituency . if such people be in a partial notspot , they can already ring 999 from their phone , but in that situation they might want to call all sort of other people to help they . it be not just 999 call that be need . just over a year ago , I do a shift with an ambulance crew , where the crew use a mobile signal to download patient datum on to their tablet to help with patient ' condition . we visit an elderly lady near Ellesmere who be very poorly , and although we be quite close to the town centre , the crew could not download her medical record , so her care be necessarily compromise compare with what somebody in an urban area might expect . finally , improve rural coverage would reduce digital inequality , which be talk about a lot in this place . many people do not feel that comfortable on a full broadband - connect computer but have learn how to use a phone — it be part of everyday life — and if they can not use it as they move around on their daily routine , they be leave out to a great extent . we all understand that there be technical challenge to building mast in rural area — not least in get a power supply out there — and that that be why there be a disparity between rural and urban area . that be a fact of life when live in a rural area — I think people do understand that — but North Shropshire be one of the bad serve area in the country . Less than 60 % of premise have coverage indoor from all operator , when the average for the whole of the UK be 86 % . once we move away from the town and into the village , less than one in three can choose which operator they have in their home . as we know — we have talk about this at length and the Minister acknowledge it in oral question recently — the coverage datum be very optimistic and do not always reflect what be happen on the ground . for example , in North Shropshire I have be to talk to people in Trefonen , where some map say they should have coverage but that be not the live experience . there be also a capacity issue whereby the coverage might be there but call might drop out regularly because other people be link up to that mast at the same time . the datum we use to assess the success of the roll - out be therefore very important . as I mention , the share rural network have involve the four mobile network operator spend half a billion pound to end partial notspot . because EE already have an extensive network of mobile mast , it have already meet its obligation even though the deadline be June 2024 — it be six month ahead — but accord to report in the Daily Telegraph , the other three provider have request a delay . that be down to a number of reason , some of which be difficult to overcome , such as lack of planning resource , the logistical challenge I mention early , and issue over access to land . those be impact the delivery of the share rural network . it be interesting that not a single mast that will be deliver by the Government for the total notspot have be build yet , accord to the House of Commons Library briefing . there be challenge that be difficult to overcome , but part of the problem be that EE have not share its mast , because it have fail to reach agreement with the other mobile network operator . that be a commercial issue and be part of the commercial negotiation , so whether EE be ask for too high a rate , or whether the other mobile operator be offer too low a rate , be a matter of perspective , but the reality be that we could have achieve well coverage without blight the countryside with load of additional mast if those operator have share their network equipment effectively . that be where this Bill come in , because it would ensure that operator share their equipment wherever possible , and would penalise they where they do not . the rate at which they would share it would be determine by Ofcom to help ease the commercial discussion along . sometimes share be not possible — sometimes a big , wide , strong mast be need and that might not be possible — and that bring I to the solution of rural roaming , which be strongly oppose by the industry . the industry argue that it cause shorten battery life , people might drop call , it do not deal with total notspot and , perhaps most importantly , it would undermine future investment , presumably because competitive advantage would be undermine . however , an Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee report in 2019 say that it would achieve an equivalent result to the share rural network and be achievable in around 18 month . an Ofcom report in 2018 say that the cost do not appear disproportionate . since those report , the share rural network agreement have be sign , but there be significant concern about the speed of roll - out , the quality of the datum we be use to judge success , and the fact that this be yesterday ' s technology and we be not yet there in the countryside — while the rest of the country be hope to get 5 g or stand - alone 5 g in the near future . the Bill would address those shortfall by require the Secretary of State to improve rural roam by incentivise company to engage in that work . in conclusion , I can not emphasise enough — separately from the mechanism of this Bill — the importance of have well datum so that when the shared rural network be assess against its objective , we can see what people be experience on the ground . we know that rural roaming will not happen unless we force the company to do it , because they have already show such strong resistance , and the Government have acknowledge that . this Bill would work alongside the share rural network by take step to improve the infrastructure sharing and encourage rural roam wherever possible . People might be with an operator that work at their home , and they could be out and about in their day when their mum fall over at home . she might call an ambulance , but she can not get hold of that person to tell they . that be problematic in the modern age . we need to ensure that people in rural area be connect wherever they go , not just when they be in their home or place of work . Matt Rodda ( Reading East ) ( lab ) : I will address a number of issue when respond for the official Opposition , and I take this opportunity to underline the importance of increase access to broadband and the wide need for great connectivity . the Bill of the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) would have two effect , as I understand it . first , it would require mobile network operator to share their network infrastructure for a reasonable price . secondly , it would incentivise operator to allow customer of other company to roam on to their network . as she mention , this be know as rural roaming , and it be similar to what happen when travel abroad . these measure be intend to tackle partial notspot , but it be worth note that the Bill would not address total notspot — area that do not receive any coverage from any mobile network operator . turn to the first of those effect , there be occasional concern about telecom network have infrastructure access . as I understand it , one of the main issue be in area , such as the city of Hull , where there be a monopoly company — in that case , KCOM — or in situation across the rest of the country where Openreach be the monopoly provider . across the country , there have be repeat issue with the use of telecom infrastructure , in particular the repeat digging up of road . there be legitimate question . Jack Brereton ( Stoke - on - Trent South ) ( Con ) : we be see this issue in my constituency at the moment , with road be dig up . Virgin Media be create absolute chaos across the constituency by dig up the road , and the work it be do to put thing back to how they be be an utter disgrace . do the hon . Gentleman — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 21 June . Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . hon . member : object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 21 June . Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . hon . member : object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 21 June . Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . hon . member : object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 2 February . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) Neale Hanvey ( Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ) ( Alba ) : last night be Burns night , and I find myself reflect over a couplet from the bard ' s timeless " a man ' s a Man for a ' that " : " the honest man , tho ' e ' er sae poor , be king o ' man for a ' that . " I open this debate in a spirit of honesty , truth and transparency — a trinity that have be lack in most of my exchange thus far with the Ministry of Defence over mount concern about the UK ' s nuclear Trident programme . the spiral cost of the programme , be they financial or human , demand an earnest response from Ministers — something that have hitherto elude the MOD — but I be hope for candour and honesty today , or in write in the forthcoming week . the economic of the Trident programme be more straightforward . as per the House of Commons Library , the total acquisition expenditure on the four Vanguard - class submarine house the Trident missile be £ 12 . 52 billion , which equate to approximately £ 21 billion in today ' s money . additionally , annual in - service cost be currently estimate at 6 % of the defence budget — base on current plan expenditure , that be another £ 3 billion for 2023 - 24 . far , the cost of the design and manufacture of the new Dreadnought - class submarine be estimate at £ 31 billion , include inflation over the life of the programme . a £ 10 billion contingency have also be set aside , make the current potential total for replacement £ 41 billion . in - service cost be expect to continue at approximately 6 % of defence expenditure . the National Audit Office have raise concern about the impact of the MOD ' s nuclear programme base on the affordability of the Department ' s overall equipment plan , but these astronomical figure continue to be spend . that bring I to the three press concern surround the Trident programme that I will set out for the Minister today , the first of which be the danger of radiation exposure and the issue of nuclear safety in Scotland . secondly , base on those incident , there be grow scepticism about the overall preparedness of the exist Vanguard fleet in the light of its allegedly dangerous and " rot " state , reference by Dominic Cummings , the former senior adviser to the former Prime Minister . thirdly , as a consequence of the nuclear exposure hazard that the UK have impose on the population of Scotland and a lack of transparency concern the programme as a whole , I will set out why the nation of Scotland have much to gain by remove that nuclear arsenal from its water . first and foremost , I would like to provide a factual context to this debate . I be contact by a whistleblower at the Coulport armament depot who tell I that there have be an emergency evacuation at the site due to a radiation leak . I raise this matter directly with the Defence Secretary , who then write to I on 10 January 2023 . in that letter , the Defence Secretary deny that there have be any serious radiation breach at Faslane or Coulport . he write : " I can confirm that the allege radiation incident refer to during defence question in the Commons do not occur . " however , public concern remain about the relocation of staff from build 201 at RNAD Coulport to build 41 . the MOD have fail to confirm the date on which the staff at Coulport building 201 be first inform that they be be move to build 41 . the Defence Secretary also state : " no serious radiation breach have occur at his Majesty ' s Naval Base Clyde or RNAD Coulport " . however , that response imply there be a threshold for report radiation leak . as I say at the time , the Defence Secretary ' s response raise more question than it answer . it suggest that there be radiation breach , but they fall below an unqualified serious threshold . what be that threshold ? how be it define , and what be the risk from non - serious radiation breach ? in response to a parliamentary write question about serious radiation breach at the Clyde and Coulport port , the Minister acknowledge : " there have be historical event with minor radiological consequence at both his Majesty ' s Naval Base Clyde and the Royal Naval Armaments Depot ( RNAD ) Coulport . " that reveal 15 record radiation leak at Coulport and a further 43 at Faslane in 2023 alone , although the MOD insist that none be consider serious . surely further detail of each of these event and the risk they do or do not present to the immediate vicinity be necessary . will the Minister commit to provide that information ? will the UK Government continue in their attempt to minimise the number and scale of such event by refer we to obscure code and categorisation to obfuscate risk or by invoke national security as both an excuse and a smokescreen ? the latter be deploy six month ago when the Alba party submit a freedom of information request ask how many convoy there have be each year for the last five year carry material from Atomic Weapons Establishment Aldermaston to Royal Naval Armaments Depot Coulport . section 24 , on national security , and section 26 , on defence , of the Freedom of Information Act 2000 be invoke to withhold that information from Scotland and our people — the very people who be frequently place at risk of exposure to radiation be to be keep in the dark . formulaic test of public information versus national interest be simply not good enough . I would like to pointedly ask the Minister : approximately how much nuclear material have be transport between Aldermaston and Coulport in the last 12 month and in the past five year ? how many convoy be use , and what be the frequency of such transport ? how many worker be sufficiently close to be impact by even low - level nuclear exposure ? we need answer , and the people deserve the most basic of information . even the detail of potentially catastrophic incident that have receive media coverage be routinely deny to right hon . and hon . member of the House and the public alike , on the spurious ground that the Ministry do not comment on operational matter in respect of submarine . it be recently report that a Royal Navy nuclear submarine plunge towards its crush depth due to a concern malfunction of its main depth gauge . it be finally report last November , but the incident take place a year before that . we still have no specific about where it take place , despite my personal request for information from the Ministry . turn to the preparedness of the Vanguard fleet itself , in September 2023 , one of the Vanguard - class submarine return from a patrol of more than six month . defence commentator note that it be double the three - month mission previously complete . additionally , Navy Lookout report that the return submarine seem to be miss exterior tile and be cover in marine growth to an extent that have not be see before . as of this year , the life expectancy of the current Vanguard fleet be repeatedly be extend , despite only three of the four vessel currently be seaworthy . I would like to credit the national newspaper in Scotland for its persistent and thorough reportage of the nuclear predicament in Scotland . if it be the case that submarine be fail in seaworthiness and labour under increase operational pressure , as be indicate by the malfunctioning of vital component , extended period of deployment and miss exterior tile , while radiation leak be be under - report , I ask the Minister in good faith , how be the people of Scotland or right hon . and hon . member to place any trust in this Government ? specifically , how be the dreadnought class to avoid exactly the same fate and , most critically , what additional safeguard be be take to mitigate civilian exposure to nuclear contamination , give this shocking evidence ? give that the chief adviser to an erstwhile Prime Minister have refer to the UK ' s nuclear fleet as a " horror show " , I would hope that the Minister would come through with some degree of information and transparency , and not rely merely on obfuscation . that bring I to my third and final concern . the deficit in trust be one of the many reason why the people of Scotland would benefit from become an independent state in lieu of be hold in this Union against our will . " Bairns not bomb " be one of the galvanise message of the independence movement in the run - up to the 2014 referendum . that slogan embody a persist sentiment against nuclear weapon of mass destruction and their dangerous and corrosive impact on our country and the planet . opinion poll after opinion poll show that the majority of scottish people oppose wmd be host in Scotland . whenever independence be mention to the UK Government , their immediate reaction be to attempt to assert that the scottish economy be well serve as part of the United Kingdom . within the realm of defence manufacturing , such an argument be as far as from reality as possible . in October , the Government sign contract total £ 4 billion to design and manufacture the world ' s most advanced submarine . however much I disagree in principle with the so - call nuclear deterrent , it illustrate perfectly the fact that Scotland receive few of the manufacture job , which be locate in Barrow - in - Furness , Raynesway and Derby . the job , the growth and the capital be yet again direct anywhere but Scotland . meanwhile , the rotting hulk of Dreadnought sub retire in the 1980s have be rust away at Rosyth long than they be in service . the people of Scotland have a precarious future , in which key economic infrastructure such as the Grangemouth oil refinery be threaten with closure . while the current situation be bleak , I would not like to end my speech on a pessimistic note . instead , I look towards the future with hope : a future where an independent Scotland can build on and benefit from its vast renewable energy potential , rather than host nuclear weapon ; a future where there be a safe , feasible and practicable way to ensure that an independent Scotland will begin its life as a nuclear and WMD - free state from day one of independence ; a future where the Government and the people of Scotland be no long keep in the dark about the danger place in their midst by a remote , arrogant London Administration .