I be grateful to my hon . friend , who make such a powerful point and speak with such authority . similar point be make by my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , who as a paediatrician speak with great expertise on this matter . it be absolutely true : it be a false choice . it be not a freedom of choice ; it be a choice to become addicted and that then remove your choice . every year , more than 100 , 000 child age between 11 and 15 light their first cigarette . what they can look forward to be a life of addiction to nicotine , spend thousand of pound a year , make perhaps 30 attempt to quit , with all the misery that involve , and then experience life - limit , entirely preventable suffering . two third of they will die before their time . some 83 % of people start smoke before the age of 20 , which be why we need to have the gut to create the first smoke - free generation across the United Kingdom , make sure that child turn 15 or young this year will never be legally sell tobacco . that be the single big intervention that we can make to improve our nation ' s health . smoking be responsible for about 80 , 000 death every year , but it would still be worth take action if the real figure be half that , or even a tenth of it . there be also a strong economic case for the Bill . every year , smoking cost our country at least £ 17 billion , far more than the £ 10 billion of tax revenue that it draw in . it cost our NHS and social care system £ 3 billion every year , with someone admit to hospital with a smoking - relate illness almost every minute of every day , and 75 , 000 gp appointment every week for smoking - relate problem . that be a massive and totally preventable waste of resource . for those of we on this side of the House who be try hard to increase access to the NHS and enable more patient to see their gps , this be a really good target on which to focus . on the positive side , create a smoke - free generation could deliver productivity gain of nearly £ 2 billion within a decade , potentially reach £ 16 billion by 2056 , improve work prospect , boost efficiency and drive the economic growth that we need in order to pay for the first - class public service that we all want . I know that hon . member who oppose the Bill be do so with the good of intention . they argue that adult should be free to make their own decision , and I get that . what we be urge they to do be make their own free decision to choose to be addict to nicotine , but that be not in fact a choice , and I urge they to look at the fact . child start smoke because of peer pressure , and because of persistent marketing tell they that it be cool . I know from experience how hard it be , once hook , to kick the habit . I take up smoking at the age of 14 . my little sister be 12 at the time , and we use to buy 10 no . 6 and a little book of match and — yes — smoke behind the bicycle shed , and at the bus stop on the way home from school . [ interruption . ] yes , I know : I be out myself here . have take up smoking at the age of 14 , I be smoke 40 a day by the age of 20 , and as a 21st birthday present to myself I give up . but today , 40 year later — I be now 60 , so do the math — with all this talk of smoking , I still feel like a fag sometimes . that be how addictive smoking be . this be not about freedom to choose ; it be about freedom from addiction . there be another angle . those in the tobacco industry be , of course , issue dire warning of unintended consequence from the raising of the age of sale . they say that it will cause an explosion in the black market . that be exactly what they say when the age of sale rise from 16 to 18 , but the opposite happen : the number of illicit cigarette consume fall by a quarter , and at the same time smoking rate among 16 and 17 - year - old in England fall by almost a third . raise the age of sale be a tried and test policy , and a policy that be support not only by a majority of retailer — which , understandably , have be mention by a number of member — but by more than 70 % of the british public .