business before Questions New Writ Ordered , that the Speaker do issue his Warrant to the Clerk of the Crown to make out a new Writ for the electing of a member to serve in this present Parliament for the County Constituency of Rochdale , in the room of Sir Anthony Joseph Lloyd , deceased . — ( Sir Alan Campbell . ) Oral Answers to Questions Education the Secretary of State be ask — support for Children with SEND what step she be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . what step she be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . what step she be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . what step she be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . what step she be take to improve support for child with special educational need and disability . there be nothing more important than ensure that everyone in our country , regardless of need , get the very good education possible . that be why our special educational need and alternative provision improvement plan will ensure that all child get the support they need to reach their potential . we have open 108 special free school , include 15 since September , and launch a £ 70 million change programme to test and refine our systemic reform , benefit every region in England . early this month I announce an extension to our short break programme . we have a plan and we be deliver on it . today , many parent of child with special educational need , include those in my constituency , be at their wit ' end . either they be fight to get an education , health and care plan for their child or they be struggle to access the right support when they get one . that be a waste of public money , a waste of parental energy and too often a waste of their child ' s precious potential . do the Secretary of State agree with my constituent , who feel that the system be break ? I would agree that there have be an absolute increase in special educational need in the past five , six or seven year , largely because we know more , but also because covid have add some pressure on the system . we have expand the system and want to ensure that all child with special educational need , even more than before , get the help they need . we have an improvement plan in place , which be publish in March 2023 and focus on early identification and improve support all the way through the journey . we be train many more people and put more support in place for the hon . Lady ' s constituent . in small and rural community such as mine in West Lancashire , population and service be often very sparsely distribute and SEND student often have to either travel upwards of an hour to reach any provision , or go without . what be the Government ' s plan to address that issue ? we have be try to increase the number of place within both mainstream and special educational need and alternative provision setting . as I say , we have 108 more special educational need school already build and 76 more approved . we have work with many local authority , include in rural area , to make sure they get the provision they need . every child with special educational need or disability should receive the high - quality support they deserve , but school and council do not have the necessary resource to meet increase demand and rise cost . what discussion be the Secretary of State have with the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on the funding and power available to council to improve SEND provision ? that be one reason the high - need budget be up by over 60 % in the past four year , and will reach £ 10 . 5 billion in 2024 - 25 . we be also support local authority with financial deficit through the safety valve and deliver well - value programme . in most constituency , include in the hon . Lady ' s area , the funding have go up by 25 % to 35 % . [ Official Report , 29 February 2024 , Vol . 746 , c . 1mc . ] ( Correction ) I also have several case in my constituency , where child and young people can wait month , if not year , not just for assessment but for a plan to address their need . sense have report that less than half of local authority have multi - sensory impairment teacher , and the National Autistic Society report that three in four parent say that their child ' s school do not fully cover their need . what be the Government do about that ? our plan to introduce national consistency and standard will be publish in 2025 . we will deliver it through local partnership and inclusion , digitise record , and make it much more transparent so that parent can see what be happen . in term of mainstream support , we will improve early language support , we be work with integrate care board to improve support for neurodiversity in school , and 100 , 000 teacher have receive autism training . there be additional special educational need co - ordinator training as well as vital early language support . my office operate a regular advice surgery for parent of child with special educational need and disability , in conjunction with the University of Liverpool law clinic , to which I pay tribute . there be simply not enough place in mainstream school or special school . child with SEND from the most deprived area be less likely to be identify compare with similar child from more affluent area . what be the Government do to ensure that child in constituency such as mine be identify early and can get the help they require ? the hon . Gentleman make a vital point . early identification be absolutely key in provide support and ensure that it impact the child as early as possible . I be very happy to understand more about place . local authority have make lot of bid , and that be why many more special educational need school have be , or be be , build — I announce 15 recently . although I do not know whether his local area bid into they , we have many scheme to ensure that local authority have financing to improve the number of place in mainstream school and special educational need school . what work be be do to support local authority in address the placing of child with special educational need and disability out of their own county and locality to receive the essential support they need ? in Essex , the problem be ongoing and affect all our Essex colleague . I pay tribute to our county council , which be do incredible work — it be well rate — but frankly it need help , assistance and support from central Government . there be a number of thing there . we have put £ 2 . 6 billion into increase the number of place — member across the House will have hear of additional school place in their area — and we have a £ 70 million change programme to ensure , through work with local authority , that the improvement plan that we publish in March 2023 go from be a piece of paper to be implement on the ground and feel by all our constituency and all family with child with special educational need . will my right hon . friend update the House on the provision of training in SEND during initial teacher training to ensure that more teacher be aware of the support that child might need , and on the recruitment of specialist , such as educational psychologist and speech and language therapist ? we be implement a gold thread of high - quality teacher training reform to ensure that teacher have the skill they need . the Department have be explore opportunity to build expertise , through a review of the initial teacher train core content framework and the early career framework , to identify how we can equip new teacher to be more confident in meet the need of child and young people with SEND . there will be more investment in educational psychologist , of which there will be another 400 , and more investment in early year senco , of which there will be another 7 , 000 . [ Official Report , 29 February 2024 , Vol . 746 , c . 2mc . ] ( correction ) similarly to my right hon . friend the Member for North East Hampshire ( Mr Jayawardena ) , I welcome the introduction of a new SENCO national professional qualification — I declare an interest , as my wife be a senco — but to create a truly inclusive school environment , all teacher need the knowledge , skill and practical training to support child with special educational need and disability . what step be my right hon . friend the Secretary of State take to ensure that initial teacher training give they that support and training ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and also for all the work he have do in this area . we work together when he be Minister for child and family and I be work in the Department of Health and Social Care , and it be something that we both care deeply about . as I say in answer to the early question , there be a golden thread of high - quality teacher training reform . we will be look at a revise framework and work with provider so that they can ensure that the contract deliver the very good support for teacher . what will be vital , and something that member will feel , be the additional 7 , 000 senco that will be train in the come year . [ Official Report , 29 February 2024 , Vol . 746 , c . 2mc . ] ( Correction ) Worcestershire County Council have some welcome plan to set up a new autism free school in Malvern . recently , I visit our Place — an independent provider — in West Worcestershire , which provide specialist education , mainly for child with autism . be it the Secretary of State ' s understanding that such independent provision would be affect by taxation should the Opposition bring in a tax on independent school across this country ? my hon . friend make a very good point : there be 2 , 408 independent school across our country , many of which provide special educational need support and excellent education in particular specialty . if those school be subject to increase taxation , that would make provision more difficult . we will have to assess what that would mean . a number of colleague have mention initial teacher training . perhaps they and the Secretary of State should look no far than tomorrow , when my ten - minute rule Bill come before Parliament — a Bill that aim to increase and ensure there be autism training for all teacher . will the Secretary of State back it ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s work in this area . initial teacher training course must equip trainee to meet all the teacher ’ standard , include standard 5 : that teacher must " have a clear understanding of the need of all pupil " , include pupil with autism . through the delivery of our improvement plan , we will develop new practitioner standard to support frontline professional , include a standard on autism . I look forward to my hon . friend ' s work with we . Postgraduate Research Applications : Visa change what assessment her Department have make of the potential impact of change to visa fee and condition on the number of application for postgraduate research . what assessment her Department have make of the potential impact of change to visa fee and condition on the number of application for postgraduate research . our visa change strike the right balance , ensure we have a fair and robust migration policy but maintain the UK ' s place as a top destination for the good and bright from around the world . the hon . and learn Lady will be pleased to know that we continue to attract the good scientist from across the world : we have over 46 , 000 postgraduate research student from overseas , 41 % of the total , produce groundbreaking and collaborative research . I thank the Minister for his answer , but I be afraid the evidence do not entirely bear out what he be say , because UCAS figure reveal a notable fall in accept application from international student . both Heriot - Watt and Edinburgh Napier university in my constituency of Edinburgh South West be highly seek after destination for international phd student . both carry out vital scientific research , with strong link to commercial and industrial need — not just in Scotland , but across the United Kingdom and , indeed , across Europe and the world — but the Government ' s visa rule be make those university far less attractive destination for international student . be the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) , the former science Minister , not right when he say that the UK " will never be a science superpower behind a visa paywall " ? I know that the hon . and learn Lady be a stickler for datum . our target be for over 600 , 000 international student every year , and we be well over that target . as I say , our visa change strike the right balance , be fair to the taxpayer while ensure that we have good international student come to our country . the minimum salary requirement for a skilled worker visa be set to increase by 48 % , from £ 26 , 200 to £ 38 , 700 , jeopardise the prospect of early - career researcher and academic come to the UK . can the Minister answer the question from my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) that he do not answer : how will the UK be a science superpower behind that visa paywall ? I think I have set that out . we have 36 % of university researcher come from outside the UK , and over 46 , 000 postgraduate student from overseas — 41 % of the total . what I would say to the hon . Gentleman be that the real cost of the SNP ' s tuition fee policy be that scottish university be unable to provide place for local student , who be 13 % less likely to take a place at a university in Scotland than english student be to take a place in England . will the Minister be investigate the discovery , expose by the Sunday Times yesterday , of Russell Group university take student with much low academic qualification for undergraduate degree , and when he do so , will he check that the same be not happen in the postgraduate field , give the much high fee that can be charge for overseas student ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . he will know that , while I be a strong supporter of international student , I be absolutely clear that I want a level playing field for all domestic student as well . I meet vice - chancellor only yesterday afternoon , as soon I have see the report in the Sunday Times , and I have ask the Department for Education to carry out an urgent investigation into bad practice by agent where it occur , as I be very disturb by what I see . we want absolute fairness of entry for domestic student as much as for international student . I call the shadow Minister . I listen to the Minister ' s response to the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) , but in December I be also assure by the Minister that he be commit to the target of 600 , 000 international student . however , recent research from IDP have find 45 % of its August and September applicant to study in the UK would consider change their study destination if post - study work visa length be shorten . what be his assessment of the impact that any change to the postgraduate work visa could have on the international education strategy and the sustainability of the sector ? the hon . Gentleman , the Opposition spokesman , know that visa matter be for the Home Office . the Migration Advisory Committee be look at the postgraduate international student visa route and will come to its conclusion . however , as I keep say to he , our target be for over 600 , 000 international student a year , and we have well surpass that . persistent Pupil Absence what step she be take to tackle persistent pupil absence in school . what step she be take to tackle persistent pupil absence in school . tackle persistent absence be my top priority , as indeed it be last year . I pay tribute to our incredible teacher and head who have go above and beyond to get child back to school . we be more than double the number of attendance hub to support 2 , 000 school , we be invest £ 15 million to expand one - to - one mentor to help 10 , 000 child and we will be require all school to share datum to support early intervention . our plan be start to work , with 380 , 000 few child persistently absent or not attend last year , and number continue to fall . but by 2026 , 2 , 435 child in Manchester , 907 in Tameside and 937 in Stockport be set to miss half their time at school if current trend continue . labour have a plan to fix this crisis , back by Sir Kevan Collins , the Government ' s own former education recovery commissioner . if this be the Secretary of State ' s top priority , why be her plan not work ? it be work . it be not go to stick on the trajectory , because we have already turn around the trajectory . since the pandemic , it be already fall in England . there be no well example of the Labour party have no plan and just snipe from the sideline than on the question of attendance . I suggest that Labour Members look at other country around the world because this be a global phenomenon . we have daily datum that be almost unique , which be why we be now reduce the figure . if we look at Wales — labour - run Wales — we see that attendance in school be much bad , at nearly eight day low per pupil . the Secretary of State say that keep child in school be her top priority , but since 2016 persistent absence in Newcastle have more than double and severe absence be up 282 % . she say it be a global phenomenon , but what matter be what happen in school in Newcastle . labour ' s plan for school be support by Sir Kevan Collins . why will she not support it ? what be she go to do about this , because we need to see change now ? the hon . Lady may have mix up a couple of thing there , but the plan to get child back into school be to have daily attendance datum , which we introduce and send out to every local authority . some local authority do not perform as well — perhaps the hon . Lady ' s be one of those — but we send out daily datum so that they can identify exactly where the school be . we be work with attendance hub , which we be introduce across the country . for individual one - to - one attention we have attendance mentor . we have a national campaign and a cross - Government action alliance , all of which have mean that England have a 7 . 5 % absence rate , compare with 11 . 5 % in Wales , and it be much high in most country around the world . we have a plan , and we be deliver on it . I work as a teacher and as head of year with overall responsibility for school attendance . Labour Members seem to forget that there be also a role for parental responsibility in all of this . in my time , I encounter a large cohort of parent who find that it be still cheap to pay the fine they be give and save the money by go on holiday during term time . be it not time to ramp up the cost of fine for parent who choose needlessly to withdraw their child from their education , harm the child ' s outcome ? every moment matter in school , and we have improve and increase our school standard . the most important thing be that child be now there . thank to our datum , we can now see pattern and those who be take a week off outside term time , or those who perhaps have a pattern of behaviour of take particular day off . we can go into the datum — we be about the only country in the world that can do that , so we be uniquely position to tackle the problem . we can go down into the datum and work at school level and local authority level , to ensure that we put into action everything we can to improve attendance . attendance matter , and we know that some school and local authority have high attendance rate than other . that be why the Education Committee , the Children ' s Commissioners and other all say that their top priority be to ensure that all school and local authority follow good practice guideline . my private Member ' s Bill , the School Attendance ( duty of Local Authorities and Proprietors of Schools ) Bill , will make that mandatory . I know that the Government support it , so will the Secretary of State take the opportunity to ensure that all colleague across the House back the Bill , and no one object to it on Second Reading this Friday , so that we can make good practice mandatory and get our kid back to school ? I thank my right hon . friend for all her work in this area . she be right ; the first thing to do be ensure that we understand good practice , and that it be roll out everywhere . a lot of work be be do in that area . I very much appreciate the initiative that she have introduce , and I urge colleague across the House to support her endeavour . I call the shadow Minister . the million of child persistently absent from school be a national scandal , yet last week government mp join together to vote against Labour ' s long - term plan to deal with that issue , put party above country and child . so far the Government have only announce stick plaster policy . will the Secretary of State come forward with a long - term plan to address that properly , or do school and family have to wait for a Labour Government to finally give all child the education they deserve ? certainly not . under a Labour Government , school standard would plummet back to where they be the last time Labour have education under their control — 27th in the world for math and 28th for English , if I remember correctly . standard fall under Labour , and it have absolutely no plan to get child back into school . as I say , this Government have uniquely put in place daily datum to enable we to get down and implement lot of different plan . we be also plan to legislate for child who be not in school , which I think be about the only thing Labour actually put in its plan . we be committed to do that , and we warmly welcome the private Member ' s Bill from my hon . friend the Member for Meon Valley ( Mrs Drummond ) , the child not in School ( Registers , Support and Orders ) Bill , and look forward to work with she when it progress to second Reading on 15 March . I urge all hon . member to support the Bill . fall Pupil Rolls what step she be take to support school with decrease pupil roll . I recognise the challenge from fall roll when there be demographic change . that be why we be change how the growth and fall roll funding be allocate to local authority — it be now base on decrease as well as increase in pupil number . we be also give great flexibility to allocate funding to meet the revenue cost of reduce surplus place . I thank the Minister for that reply . decline school roll in London be a big issue that I have raise in the House on a number of occasion . we be see family with young child be drive out of London because of the affordability of housing and the cost of living crisis , and a new report out today by London Councils show that the situation be get even bad . in Lambeth we be see a 17 . 5 % drop in demand for reception place over the next five year . Archbishop Tenison ' s School , opposite the Oval cricket ground in my constituency , close last year . we need urgent action from the Government . the fall roll funding be help , but that be just for the short term . will the Minister look at how we can protect our vital education asset ? will the Government finally address the cost of living crisis ? it be true that a period of change be come as the bulge in primary school number start to move into secondary school , and it be important to plan ahead for that . we want to work with local authority , and I know that the hon . member ' s local authority , Lambeth , be be proactive in look at amalgamation where necessary . we also have pupil place planning adviser in each region work with local authority and academy trust , and school resource management adviser work directly with school . there will also be some repurposing of some space in school — I be not speak specifically about her constituency — with opportunity for more early year provision in some case , and more special educational need provision . we will have to be agile and ensure that there be still sufficient space for parental choice . as the Secretary of State know — we share a local authority — when it come to calculate demand for secondary school place , West Sussex get a d - minus . one of my district be oversubscribed and last year more than 50 child — almost all from one school — be take out of district to a school that none of they have apply for and some of they have not hear of . next year , it could be even bad . despite help from my noble Friend Baroness Barran and the regional school commissioner , West Sussex have still do absolutely nothing to address the shortage of secondary school place . will the Minister intervene ? as I say to the hon . member for Vauxhall ( Florence Eshalomi ) , it be true that there be change as number move from primary into secondary , and it be important to try to plan ahead . on the specific of West Sussex , I will be pleased to meet my hon . friend to discuss it far . School Attendance what step her Department be take to increase school attendance . what step her Department be take to increase school attendance . attendance do decline through covid . it be now improve , but there be a lot more to do . we be expand attendance hub to support nearly 2 , 000 school and we have launch the " moment matter " campaign to remind parent of the importance of every single day in school . in Hartlepool , we have see a rise number of parent and guardian opt for home - school education . as of November , that number have increase to 186 , more than triple in four year . in addition , we have a huge number of child who simply do not turn up at school . will my right hon . friend please share the step that he be take alongside Hartlepool Borough Council to ensure that those child be receive a fair and decent education ? I will . local authority have duty towards those child to ensure that all be receive a suitable education and act if not . the consultation we hold on revise guidance to help fulfil that responsibility recently close , and we will publish the response in due course . we remain committed to legislation , as my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) say , to create statutory register of child not in school in order to help local authority identify those eligible child . I know from speak to school in Wimbledon that access to mental health support can get pupil back into school or keep they in school . what plan do the Department have to roll out more access to that mental health support so that we can see that trend increase ? of course , there be multiple layer to mental health support . the mental health support team programme , which we be roll out gradually across the country , continue to expand . at the end of March 2023 , 35 % of pupil in school or further education be cover by that , include 47 % at secondary . when the figure for this year come out , I expect they to be high . unlike the opposition , we be put mental health support not only into secondary school but into primary school , where it can make a big difference . the reality for mental health support team in school be that funding be not guarantee beyond 2025 , and the coverage be patchy . early this month I hear about a teenager in a secondary school in my constituency who have not attend for four month because of mental ill health . the school be convince that if there be dedicated , qualified mental health practitioner in secondary and primary school , attendance would improve . will the Minister back my ten - minute rule Bill to commit to exactly that duty , to be pay for by treble the tax on social medium company , which so often be at the root of those problem ? the hon . member identify important problem . there be important link between mental ill health prevalence and non - attendance . we will see benefit from the offer to all state school and college of a grant to train a senior mental health lead , as well as the wide mental health support team that I mention . early intervention be key . we need to look at what more can be do at primary school level because , although not entirely , often the sign be already there by the time child get to secondary school . could the Minister say more on that ? the transition from primary to secondary be also key , and we need to look at that . the hon . Gentleman be entirely correct . it be important to consider the role of mental health in primary as well as secondary school . we put mental health education on the curriculum through relationship , sex and health education , and we be invest in the mental health support team that I mention , as well as the training grant . of course , some school do the transition from primary to secondary very well . it can be an unsettling time for child , but also an exciting one , and it be important that we maximise those benefit . there be a lot of good practice out there . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . in England , school attendance be impact by off - roll — a practice that do not exist in Scotland . now , we hear in a report that school be actively remove gcse student , not for any behavioural issue but because they be struggle academically and the school want to protect its place in the league table . what step be the Minister take to address what the Centre for Social Justice have call " a system which effectively reward school for exit academically underperform student " ? let I be abundantly clear : off - roll — remove a pupil from a school without use a permanent exclusion — be unacceptable and unlawful . that be in the ofsted framework , and it be strengthen in the revise framework that come out in 2019 to look at that . that can be see in Ofsted ' s report . it be also look at by the Teacher Regulation Agency . we must be abundantly clear that be involve in off - rolling be not consistent with the conduct we expect of a teacher . in serious case , it could result in action . SEND place : Gloucestershire what recent estimate she have make of the number of school place available for pupil with special educational need in Gloucestershire . place for pupil with special educational need and disability have increase in Gloucestershire since 2015 . we estimate that there be 1 , 700 place , and the local authority open two additional setting in 2022 - 23 . at the moment , 120 pupil have be assess as need special school place , but those place be not available . over the next couple of year it look like at least 200 more special school place will be need in Gloucestershire . can the Minister look at the situation urgently to see what he can do to help ? we be work closely with local authority on this issue . we have allocate more than £ 1 . 5 billion of high need capital allocation in the last two year for local authority to create additional place . Gloucestershire County Council have announce a 200 - place moderate and additional learn difficulty school for four to 16 - year - old , to be deliver through our free school presumption route in early 2026 . there be only three specialist school provide by the state in Shropshire . two of they be — order . the supplementary question should relate to the question on the Order Paper . just as in Gloucestershire , we be short of specialist school — two of our three be rate as inadequate and need improve . the most vulnerable child be unable to go to school because need be not be meet . will the Minister look at what can be do in Shropshire to provide place for the most seriously affect child ? in addition to work with Gloucestershire , we work with Shropshire on its capacity . we have already announce 41 new special free school with a further 38 in the pipeline . cost of Living Support : devolve administration whether she have have recent discussion with her counterpart in the devolved administration on the potential merit of provide additional financial support for school pupil in the context of increase in the cost of living . I agree that , give all that the UK have in common , it be vital that we talk about policy issue frequently , include on devolve matter . the UK Education Ministers Council last meet in June last year , when it be host by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State in Liverpool . I understand it be for the Scottish Government to issue the invitation for the next one — we await their missive with anticipation . expand free school meal have a direct impact on child ' s health , promote cognitive development and improve test score and concentration . the Scottish Government be roll out universal free school meal for primary school child . what additional financial effort will the Minister make to address educational inequality , such as support and follow the example of the Scottish Government to improve outcome for all pupil ? we await the Scottish Government ' s full programme , but I will say that , in recognition of the benefit of free school meal and target they where they can have most effect , one in every three pupil in England be now eligible for free school meal , compare with one in six when Labour be in Government . I call the SNP spokesperson . to be clear , the UK Government will not even extend free school meal to child in household receive universal credit . speak in Parliament two week ago , the Children ' s Commissioner for England urge the UK Government to expand free school meal , say that child with an empty belly can not learn . when will this Government follow Scotland ' s lead in address child poverty by roll out free school meal to all primary school child ? we have extend eligibility for free school meal on three occasion , mainly with universal infant free school meal , the extension of further education student and , most recently , by extend the protection for people in transition on universal credit . I say gently to the hon . Lady that we think it be important to target free school meal , but that it be just as important for child in secondary school as in primary . early year Education what step she be take to improve early year education . this government be roll out the large expansion of childcare in England ' s history , double the amount we spend now . this will enable more child to benefit from high - quality early year education and childcare more of the time , build strong foundation for every child and enable more parent to work . why have it take 14 year for the Government to get around to have a plan ? they get rid of child ' s centre and sure Start centre , and they have not replace they with anything until now . now we see chaos : people can not get the code ; they do not know what money they be get from local government ; the National Day Nurseries Association say it be a mess . what be the Minister go to do to clear up this mess ? there be a lot in that question . on the sure Start point , we be roll out family hub , which will be a lot broad than the sure Start centre be and will cover child with special educational need up to the age of 25 . as for the code issue , as the hon . Gentleman will already know , we have work with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to provide a solution to that issue for all parent so that no parent will miss out as a result . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . I very much welcome the fact that this Government be double investment in early year and childcare . as the Secretary of State say early with regard to special educational need , early identification of need be absolutely key . from that perspective , will the Minister meet I to discuss the urgent need for a specialist assessment centre in Worcester , after the loss of the one in Fort Royal ? it have go out for commission , but unfortunately we have not have any bid to host the new one , and we need to get on with deliver one for next September . I do not know the detail of my hon . friend ' s specific case , but I would be delighted to meet he to discuss it far . I call the shadow Minister . with just over two month to go until the start of the expand offer for two - year - old , the Government ' s plan for early year education and childcare be in complete chaos , with nursery and childminder across the country still wait to have their funding rate for April confirm . how can the Minister expect provider to confirm place with parent when they do not even know what they will be pay ? do he agree with the chief executive of the Early Years Alliance that this be yet another example from this Government of announce first and do the thinking afterwards ? I think the hon . Lady know that the reason provider do not have their rate at the moment be that local authority have not inform they of their rate . we publish the rate in November and it be up to local authority to tell their provider . where they do not have those rate , that be the reason . it be yet another example of where the Labour party hope that if it snipe enough from the sideline , no one will notice that it have no plan whatever for childcare . Mental Health support : Secondary Schools what step her Department be take to increase the availability of mental health support in secondary school . we be roll out mental health support team to school and college , support young people to access early intervention for mental health . as my right hon . friend the Minister for Schools say , as of March 2023 there be 398 team cover 47 % of secondary school pupil . that will increase to around 600 team by spring 2025 . when I be a young person , we have a counsellor in our school . it help many people , not for the long term but through short - term intervention that put people on the right track and mean that they do not need more expensive intervention down the line . unfortunately , those counsellor have go in many school . labour will reintroduce they . will the Minister commit to reintroduce a counsellor in every school to ensure that we spend now to save later ? counsellor have a role , but we believe that a combination of roll out mental health support team and give every state school and college in the country a grant to train a senior mental health lead be a well approach to take . degree - level Apprenticeships what step her Department be take to encourage the take - up of degree - level apprenticeship . the Government have build one of the most powerful apprenticeship system in the world , reach nearly 700 different occupation , from level 2 through to master ' s degree level 7 . it be great that there have be over 5 . 7 million start since 2010 . there be now over 170 employer - design degree - level apprenticeship available , include for occupation such as medical doctor , space engineer , midwife , social worker — pretty much whatever . we be provide an additional £ 40 million in the next two financial year to support provider in expand their offer to make sure more people can access they . the Conservatives have transform apprenticeship since 2010 , with local education provider , employer and Bexley Council all help to make Bexley one of the top borough in London for apprenticeship . do the Secretary of State agree with I that apprenticeship have a key role to play in our economy and in social mobility , and that while Labour want to focus on teach divisive idea such as white privilege in school , the Conservatives want to support people from all background to get on in life ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . Bexley ' s apprenticeship event on 5 February will be a fantastic opportunity for local people to learn about the apprenticeship on offer in his constituency . we have transform our apprenticeship system . People around the world look at we and say , " how on earth have you do that ? " I be very happy to work with anybody , but all that be at risk . the Labour party would halve the number of apprenticeship , take we back to square one . sadly , the Government do not intervene to save Cumbria ' s agricultural college . however , will they decide to invest in agricultural degree apprenticeship , work with the University of Cumbria and Cumbria ' s further education college , to make sure we have a pipeline of new leader who can feed we and care for our environment through farming ? when I be apprenticeship and skill Minister , we work together to ensure we have the right college offer in the area that be sustainable . my right hon . friend the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and Higher Education will be very happy to work on that . we be look to expand degree apprenticeship . we have provision in place to work with provider to offer many opportunity , include in agriculture . I call the shadow Minister . next week be National Apprenticeship Week , and I look forward to celebrate apprenticeship across the country . as the Secretary of State know , small and medium - sized enterprise be crucial to deliver high - quality apprenticeship at every level throughout our economy , but the number of SME apprenticeship have plummet by 49 % since 2016 , and research show that the levy be fail to reverse the decline in employer train more widely . the Secretary of State pretend that everything be fine , but be not the real answer to back our business , give they great flexibility to enable they to deliver the training that we need to get our economy grow again ? absolutely . obviously , one reason for the reduction in some of the SME number be the fact that we make improvement to ensure that every single apprenticeship be of high quality . I want to make sure that all young people who embark on an apprenticeship , as I do , put their trust in the system and get what they deserve . we have remove the limit on cap on sme , and we be work on reduce the number of step to make it easy for they to access the system . we be also look at what more we can do : we be focus on a number of way in which to ensure that apprenticeship work well for sme , which account for 70 % of employment . [ Official Report , 29 February 2024 , Vol . 746 , c . 4MC . ] ( correction ) f40 Local Authorities : fund what step she be take to increase the funding allocate to the f40 local education authority . we be commit to fund all school fairly and equitably , wherever they be . the national funding formula replace an unjust system whereby school receive different level of funding for no reason . it be welcome that funding for all school have rise , but do the Minister accept that there be deprivation in market town and village where transport cost be high , and that the difference between the sum for the highest funded local authority and those for the lowest fund , such as Central Bedfordshire , be thousand of pound per child ? what can he do to close the gap more quickly ? my hon . friend be right about the importance of deprivation factor and , indeed , transport cost . we be increase the amount under the formula that relate to deprivation , and there be also the sparsity factor . of course , all school be benefit from increase in funding , which will total £ 59 . 6 billion in 2024 - 25 . when it come to the funding of school , should not the Government just follow the money ? Amber Infrastructure , which own Newman College in Chadderton , have pay out £ 80 million of shareholder dividend during the time for which it have own that PFI school . the heating system do not work , the roof be leak — which be affect 30 classroom — and now two temporary classroom must be build to accommodate the pupil . will the Government intervene and point out to the provider that if the money be there to be take in dividend , it be there to fix a roof as well ? I would be happy to follow up the matter of the private finance initiative contract at that college , and perhaps have some discussion with my right hon . friend the Minister for Skills , Apprenticeships and Higher Education . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . as be mention by the hon . member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) , next week be National Apprenticeship Week . when I do my apprenticeship I benefit from brilliant training and opportunity , thank to General Motors , which get I where I be today , and I want to spread those opportunity to everyone , everywhere . this Conservative Government have build a new high - quality apprenticeship system from the ground up . nearly 70 % of occupation be now accessible via apprenticeship , and we have deliver 5 . 7 million apprenticeship start since 2010 . a week from today , we will kick off National Apprenticeship Week . I ask all member to go on a visit to meet apprentice and talk about the opportunity that be available throughout the country — a real example of level up . all my Ministers and I will be out , across the country , celebrate different industry and provider , and with hundred of apprentice . this be why Labour ' s policy to halve the number of apprenticeship be so dangerous : it would remove opportunity from people like I , take we back to square one . I look forward to Fact Check ' s assessment of the Secretary of State ' s comment . give that 2 , 730 child in Hull be wait more than 12 week for their first mental health appointment , be it pride or inattentiveness that prevent the Secretary of State from adopt labour ' s plan for a mental health professional in every school ? if I may " fact check " the hon . Lady , I think that the plan be for a mental health professional in every secondary school . the plan that we have be to introduce mental health support team in every primary and secondary school . as usual , our plan , on which we be deliver , be well think through , cover more people , and solve the problem that they be intend to solve . very welcome remediation work on reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — RAAC — be now under way at Kingsdown School in Leigh - on - Sea , mean that part of the school will be open from half term . however , the school have still not have confirmation , give the extent of the RAAC , on whether there will be a rebuild of the school . this uncertainty be affect remediation , expansion and recruitment plan . please could we have that confirmation for the school as soon as possible ? I know that my hon . friend have campaign tirelessly for Kingsdown School . our questionnaire programme be 100 % complete , all school have be tell if it be suspect that they might have RAAC and 100 % of those have be survey . I can confirm we will be remove RAAC from our school for good , either through the school rebuilding programme or through grant funding , and we will inform school shortly , once our assessment have conclude . I know that my hon . friend have meet Baroness Barran to discuss Kingsdown School and be meet again this week . I call the shadow Secretary of State . student at St Leonard ' s School in Durham be work hard for their exam , but they be face sustain and ongoing disruption , include challenge to do practical coursework , off - site teaching and be buss around the city , all because of RAAC . there be no firm date for the rebuilding to commence , and that be just not good enough . it be put young people ' s future at risk . will the Secretary of State now work with the regulator and the exam board on mitigation for the small number of young people whose life chance be be put at risk by government failure ? as the hon . Lady know , we have be work closely with St Leonard ' s School , and actually with all school that be impact by RAAC . I would like to take this moment to thank the headteacher and all the teacher who have do an amazing job to keep 100 % of child in face - to - face education . we have speak to the award body . they have be work with school and have offer some support in term of assessment and make sure that they can look at what more need to be do , but exam be there to assess — order . we be have this problem every time . topical be mean to be short and punchy . I have to get all these member in , but all you be do be stop they get in . if that be the ploy , it be not go to work . my right hon . friend have already mention the article in , but be she aware that it be compare apple and orange ? british student go straight into a degree course in the first year , but these overseas student refer to be foundation year student who be not on the degree course . they be do the equivalent of a - level exam . of course I agree that , on entry requirement , we should ensure that we be compare like for like and be fair to our brilliant domestic student . I be appal to see the reporting over the weekend , which clearly show bad practice in the use of agent . that be not acceptable . as I have say , I meet Universities UK and the vice - chancellor yesterday and we be go to sort this out . there be an investigation by the Department for Education . " it ' s not our fault " always seem to be this Government ' s catchphrase , and now it apply to childcare too : it be not the Secretary of State ' s fault but that of local authority ; it be not her responsibility to deliver on her Government ' s own pledge . even her own civil servant be say that some parent just will not get their place . do she agree with the Children ' s Minister that no parent will lose out ? will she give that guarantee to the House today — yes or no ? I be glad that the hon . Lady have ask about childcare , because it be yet another illustration of how this Conservative Government be deliver for work parent while the Labour party still do not have a plan . I know what it take to deliver complex project . I have deliver many over three decade work in industry all around the world . give the hon . Lady ' s limited experience outside politic , she should focus on not play party politic and deliver for hard - work parent . educational psychologist be enormously important . what progress be the Government make on their current recruitment drive to increase their number ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . this be a highly competitive training scheme . between 2017 and 2019 the Department fill all 160 of its fund training place per year , and since 2020 it have fill all 200 of the funded place each year . we have now commit to train a further 400 educational psychologist . [ Official Report , 8 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 6mc . ] ( Correction ) do the right hon . Lady agree that we need highly qualified , excellent teacher in every school ? be she worried , as I be , that so many highly qualified , gifted teacher be leave the profession after just a few year ? of course I agree , which be why I be delighted that we have 27 , 000 more teacher in our school than we have in 2010 . we have a retention and recruitment plan with many different facet to make sure that we retain our excellent teacher . work with one of my secondary school , John Whitgift Academy , we have create a pilot scheme call " Opportunity Grimsby " , in which year 8 student and their parent be link with local business . that will form part of a scheme in which the student be a workplace mentee until year 11 . will my right hon . friend commit to come to Grimsby to see how well the scheme be do ? I would be delighted to come to Grimsby . I congratulate my hon . friend on become the apprenticeship diversity champion . she be a skill champion , and what she be do on career and mentor in Grimsby be a model example of what should be do across the country . this month ' s Joseph Rowntree Foundation report set out how childhood poverty impact on educational attainment , and how the consequence last a lifetime , entrench intergenerational poverty . forty - two per cent of child in Newcastle be grow up in poverty . will the Secretary of State support labour ' s call for free breakfast club in every primary school , to give those child the good start in life ? we be invest very heavily in breakfast club . this be another area in which we think that target support matter . that include secondary school , not just primary school , as the Labour party suggest . be it not a disgrace that young child be tell to cover up their badge so that people do not know which school they attend , and be tell to remove outward sign that they be jewish ? security be provide once they get to school , but what will my right hon . friend do to make sure that child be educate on the evil of antisemitism , so that we spread this message across all school , rather than just jewish school ? my hon . friend be right . after Holocaust Memorial Day , we be acutely conscious of the continue need to act against antisemitism . one of the thing we be do be launch a new fund for both school and high education , to try to address antisemitism effectively at its root . each year , student have to apply for the ture international mobility scheme before the Easter deadline , but those from widen participation background need to know that they have the money before they apply , and university be get confirmation of funding some month later , in June and July . I be sure the Secretary of State will agree that ture should be open to all , so will she press Treasury colleague for a multi - year funding settlement ? I have enormous respect for the hon . Gentleman , and I listen carefully to what he say . we be work to smooth out any issue with the ture scheme . however , it be worth note that we have increase the proportion of disadvantaged student take part in it from 50 % to 60 % . I be proud that we be embed social justice in the scheme . will student affect by RAAC , such as those at Thornleigh Salesian College in Bolton , receive special dispensation in their gcse and a - level ? I recently meet the college ' s exceptional headteacher , Mrs o ' Callaghan , and I take this opportunity to wish she all the good on her well deserve retirement at the end of the year . I join my hon . friend in congratulating , commend and thank Mrs o ' Callaghan on her life ' s work . I appreciate that the RAAC situation in school have be very difficult , which be why we be try to work with they on thing like coursework assessment . they should be in touch with award body . we be also make sure that we reimburse all reasonable revenue cost . I recently meet headteacher in West Derby , who share with I their serious concern that the current ofsted inspection model be not fit for purpose , be deeply unfair and be drive teacher out of a profession they love . in the light of today ' s Education Committee report , will the Secretary of State meet I and the experienced educator in Liverpool , West Derby , to discuss their concern and what they feel need to change ? I pay tribute to the headteacher in Liverpool , West Derby . we think it be important to have an independent inspectorate , and we think it be important that assessment be clear . in the wake of the tragedy of Ruth Perry , it be right that we think about all the aspect , some of which have already change . to be clear , we think it continue to be important that there be a clear external assessment for parent . family across Tipton and Wednesbury be still struggle to get an initial assessment for child with SEND . what work be my right hon . friend do to hold organisation such as child and adolescent mental health service to account , so that we ensure that these assessment be do quickly ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue . we be work with all local authority , through our SEND and alternative provision improvement plan , to make sure that assessment happen a lot quick , and that child get the support they need . school exclusion and suspension be on the rise . child who have experience trauma be at the great risk of exclusion , which only add to the overall negative outcome for child with adverse childhood experience , yet the Department ' s behaviour guidance make no reference to childhood trauma . will the Minister meet the all - party group on childhood trauma to discuss how we can develop well guidance to take account of childhood trauma ? we want to see school not exclude child where that be at all possible . there be no right number for exclusion ; they have to be determine in the light of the circumstance at the school , but we expect people to look at the matter as a whole . I will , of course , be happy to talk to the hon . Lady . I thank the Secretary of State for her early answer about RAAC . will she give priority for a complete rebuild to St Edward ' s Catholic Academy in my constituency , follow the adjudication that more than 80 % of it be affect by RAAC ? can the plan start very soon , please ? yes , I can give an assurance that we be go through all the detail and assess each instance on a case - by - case basis . I know that all hon . member be keen to know what will happen , and they will have the answer very shortly . the change in the visa rule for international student and their dependant be have a significant impact , not only on the number of student come to university such as the University of York , a Russell Group university , but on these university ' finance . university will have to make significant cut if this visa programme reach fruition . will the Minister meet vice - chancellor and the Home Office , together , to talk about the impact this be have ? we have regular conversation with vice - chancellor and the Home Office on this issue . however , as I say , our target have be more than 600 , 000 student and we have well surpass that , and 36 % of university researcher come from outside the UK . we have a proud record on international student and that will continue . St Peter ' s Church of England Primary School in Budleigh Salterton be an excellent school , but it be be let down by temporary classroom that be way past their good . temporary classroom should be just that : temporary , not a permanent solution . far to my letter , which be wind its way through the Department , will my right hon . friend meet I to discuss this matter far ? I will . child ' s service be struggle , and in too many part of England , outcome for child be just not good enough . what conversation have the child ' s Minister have with those in the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities about both resource and capacity for child ' s service ? what measure will he take where council underperform , and thus let child down ? we have very regular conversation with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities on that issue , as part of our " stable home , build on love " reform to transform the child ' s social care system , and we take strict action where local authority be not meet the requirement . Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole Council be , bizarrely , take parent to court to challenge their legal right to secure special educational support for their child . with the council lose 90 % of those case and this cost £ 100 , 000 every three month , will the Secretary of State join I in ask the council to think again ? will she agree to meet I to discuss special educational need provision for Bournemouth ? my right hon . friend make an important point . we be concern by any local authority spend too much money take parent to court . child need to get the right support , in the right setting , at the right time , and I would be happy to have a discussion with he about that . Post Office Ltd ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade if she will make a statement on the removal of Henry Staunton as Post Office Ltd chair and wide governance issue within the organisation . follow a conversation with the Secretary of State for Business and Trade over the weekend , Henry Staunton agree to step down as chairman of the Post Office . an interim chair will be appoint shortly , and a recruitment process for a new chair will be launch in due course , in accordance with the governance code for public appointment . I will update the House when we have further detail . the current chairmanship be not prove effective , and we have a difficult decision : change course , or wait and hope that it improve . give the challenging context for the Post Office and the importance of the role of chair , the Business Secretary take decisive action . I understand that member would like more detail around the decision , especially consider that the Post Office be rightly under heighten scrutiny at this time . I can confirm that there be issue beyond the handling of the Horizon scandal , but as hon . member would expect , I be not able to comment on the specific of individual human resource case . as the Business Secretary have say , Post Office governance be a priority for the Government . the Post Office be a public corporation ; as such , the Post Office board have responsibility for the strategic direction of the company . while there be a clear need for new leadership of the board , we continue to have confidence in the other board member , who be experience executive with a range of business expertise across the legal , financial , insurance , asset management and pension sector ; there be two elect postmaster non - executive director , too . the Post Office face unprecedented challenge . it need to work at pace to deliver compensation to the thousand of postmaster who fall victim to a faulty it system , as well as to continue the essential work to implement the necessary operational and cultural change need in the business . as such , strong and effective leadership of Post Office Ltd be a necessity . I thank the Minister for his response . it be concern that the Secretary of State ' s move towards clarity and well governance at Post Office Ltd begin with the Government be on a different page from Post Office Ltd on whether Staunton be fire or leave by mutual consent . will the Minister clarify that ? be it possible that Mr Staunton be be make a scapegoat to take the heat away from this Government , and those who come before , the Government be the sole shareholder in Post Office Ltd ? back in July , the Minister for Enterprise , Markets and Small Business say in a debate on POL ' s management culture : " through the shareholder ' s representative on the board , the Government oversee the Post Office ' s corporate governance , strategy , performance and stewardship of its financial and other resource . " — [ Official Report , 13 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 180WH . ] that be not the same as the chairperson . be the Government satisfied that the UK Government Investments board representative have adequately fulfil his oversight role ? indeed , have Tom Cooper , who stand down in May , be replace ? that be not clear from Post Office Ltd ' s website . it be clear that the governance model simply have not work . the arm ' s length approach use by successive government have allow scandal after scandal to fester . the post office network be in disarray . financial redress to postmaster be far too slow and , in some case , wholly inadequate . the remuneration package for sub - postmaster mean that many be work for below the minimum wage , and service be continuously be strip away . do the Minister have confidence that the removal of Mr Staunton will speed up financial redress for victim and bring about change in the management culture of Post Office Ltd ? back in July , Mr Staunton appear in front of the Business and Trade Committee over the bonusgate scandal . in a debate at the same time , I ask the Minister if he have confidence in the current management of Post Office Ltd . I receive no meaningful answer , so have it take a tv drama for the Government to take action ? how be that acceptable ? I thank the hon . Lady for her work ; the all - party parliamentary group on post office do a tremendous job . the phrase use in the statement be " mutual consent " , but it be fair to say that the Government exercise their right to remove the chairman ; the hon . Lady can deduce from that what she will . this be not a case of allocate responsibility for the past problem of the Post Office ; we be simply say that we need new leadership go forward . there be specific circumstance around the chairman that mean that we feel that he be not the right person to lead the organisation of the board at this time . the shareholder representative on UKGI , as the hon . Lady be right to say , be not the chair ; it be Tom Cooper , but be now Lorna Gratton . do I have confidence in she ? yes , I do . I meet she regularly and have a high degree of confidence in she . compensation be too slow — we accept that . a number of measure be introduce prior to the tv drama , as the hon . Lady put it , include the fix - sum award of £ 600 , 000 for overturn conviction . we have also introduce a fix - sum award for the group litigation order to expedite compensation . that be something on which I be absolutely focused on a daily basis . I accept what the hon . Lady say about the remuneration of sub - postmaster around the country . part of that , of course , be about consumer habit — where we shop on the high street . we be keen to identify new source of revenue , include through the banking framework , which be a potential lucrative opportunity , and parcel hub . on the issue of confidence in the individual , let I say that , have be a board director myself for 30 year , you be only as good as your last game , so it be fair to say that , at this point in time , we do not feel that Henry Staunton be the right person to lead the board . give the Government ' s role as the sole shareholder in the Post Office , and the associate liability and responsibility that go with that , when will the Secretary of State for Business and Trade make public all the associate paper relate to Horizon and this entire scandal , so that the victim as well as the country can see where the responsibility for all this lie ? by do so , the Government will be able to take the right kind of action and support the victim as they seek compensation . I thank my right hon . friend for her question and the work that she have do on this . we set up the inquiry in 2021 to undertake that work . those document be public and subject to public scrutiny . she may have watch some of the inquiry session , which be very revealing about some of the conduct that happen at the Post Office . that inquiry be due to conclude by the end of this year and then report probably sometime next year . we will have a much clear understanding then of who be responsible , and , as be often say at this Dispatch Box , that be the time to hold those individual to account . I call the shadow Minister . the Post Office Horizon scandal be one of the most insidious injustice in our country . it have rob innocent people of their livelihood , their liberty and , all too sadly , their life . at least 60 postmaster have die without see justice or receive compensation and at least four have take their life . twenty year on , sub - postmaster and their family be still suffer from the consequence and the trauma of all that they have be put through . the scale of the scandal be so vast that get the right leadership in place at the Post Office be of paramount importance . however , to decide to eject the chair during the weekend with no real opportunity to get the detail of the decision on the public record be unusual , to say the least . People need to know that remove Henry Staunton be a substantive , evidence - base decision if we be to have confidence in that decision . can the Minister assure we that this decision be , indeed , substantive and not just the result of a personal fall out between Mr Staunton and the Secretary of State ? the Minister have talk about set a timeline " in due course " for replace Mr Staunton . in the context of what have happen in the Horizon scandal and the big challenge face the Post Office , strong leadership be vital at this point in the process . I hope that he will be able to share as quickly as possible further information about the timeline and when the post will be fill . what confidence can the Minister provide that this change will lead to the wholesale culture change that be desperately need to make sure that this never happen again ? Mr Staunton be not in the Post Office during the Horizon scandal — he have only serve in the position since 2022 — and this scandal have never be about the action of one single individual . finally , the priority for we all in this House be the fast - track exoneration of all remain conviction and the delivery of rightful redress or compensation to all the affected sub - postmaster as quickly as possible . will the Minister provide an update on when we will see more progress on those matter to make sure that we take urgent step to fix the seismic damage of this scandal ? it certainly be not something that we want to do on a weekend . there be a chance that it would come into the public domain by other mean , which be why a conversation have to take place over the weekend . we do not think that it would be right for the individual to hear about the potential course of action by other mean than the Secretary of State speak to he . I think that be the right thing to do . I do not know why the hon . Lady would feel , or whether she any evidence , that there be some kind of fall out , as she put it ; this be about very serious governance issue relate to the person who head the board of the organisation , which be obviously confidential human resource issue . on the timeline to replace Mr Staunton , as I say , we will do so as quickly as possible . we be look at recommendation as we speak , and we will report back to the House as soon as possible on an interim and a permanent replacement . this be not about hold somebody responsible for past problem in the Post Office ; it be about the governance of the Post Office go forward . that be why a mutual agreement take place for Mr Staunton to step down . we be work at pace to deliver the blanket overturning of conviction . we be keen to update the House as quickly as possible , and should do so in the come day . as a member of the Business and Trade Committee , I be deeply concerned by the inability of Mr Read , the chief executive officer of Post Office Ltd , to answer an array of very simple question . in fact , he appear not even to have do his basic homework when it come to look back at the Horizon scandal . although he be not the ceo at the time of the scandal , what confidence do the Government have in Mr Read as chief executive officer to turn it around , and have he yet make public the board minute that show when the matter be bring to the board ' s attention for the very first time ? if any board member be complicit in hear that information and not act upon it , what step will the Government take with lawyer to ensure that they be hold accountable ? I thank my hon . friend for his work on the Select Committee . I be present for his line of question during that session . the chief executive commit to provide response to the Committee ; I be not sure whether they have be provide thus far . a number of question need to be address , and it be right that those answer be provide . as far as the Government be concern , our primary mean of achieve that be through the inquiry , which be hear important evidence right now , and will conclude its work by the end of the year and report shortly afterwards . I call the SNP spokesperson . surely if ever there be a time to consider remove Mr Staunton from his post , it be after it emerge last year that bonus be be pay to Post Office executive simply for do what I think we would all expect they to : co - operate fully with the Horizon inquiry . I think that people will be forgive for have the suspicion that , when it come to Horizon , Ministers have be a bit like the japanese moon lander , suddenly burst to life as soon as a bit of light be shine on they , in this case by an ITV programme . I have two question . first , Fujitsu ' s representative tell the Business and Trade Committee a fortnight ago that Fujitsu have a " moral obligation " to contribute to the financial redress for the victim . have the Secretary of State have any discussion yet with Fujitsu about how and when that might happen , as well as about the size of the contribution that it might make ? secondly , with regard to the continue unexplained shortfall in Horizon , will the Government commit to reveal how much in excess the Post Office claim back from staff , resort to forensic accountancy if require ? the bonus be return voluntarily by anybody who receive they for that sub - metric , and the chief executive return his bonus from across the entire inquiry . on the point about the Government pick up the pace because of the ITV drama , I would say a couple of thing . we be put a number of measure in place already . we have put in place the Horizon compensation advisory board , which have Lord Arbuthnot as one of its key member . a fix - sum award be introduce last autumn . we be look at advice on overturn conviction . thing be happen at pace in this area prior to the dramatisation , but of course we be public servant and member of the public . of course we want to expedite thing , and the impetus behind they be at a raise level because of the public outcry . conversation be ongoing with Fujitsu . in my view , the good point to negotiate be when we have all the evidence at our disposal , which will not be until the inquiry conclude . we welcome the fact that the company have take and accept some moral responsibility to contribute towards the compensation and we will take it at its word , but negotiate at the right point be the right way to deal with that . the question of any excess money that come back from postmaster effectively into Post Office account be an important one , which we be ask now , and we hope to get answer in the near future . I speak recently to a couple of my constituent whose parent be wrong by the Post Office Horizon scandal . now they be be ask to provide invoice from more than 20 year ago to prove that they buy the Horizon system — record the Post Office itself admit it do not keep . do my hon . friend agree that it be right that we focus on those who have be wrong , and that the benefit of the doubt must be with those postmaster who be completely wrong ? that be absolutely right . it should not be the case that a postmaster have to evidence a document that do not exist . the benefit of the doubt should be with the postmaster . of course it be fair to ask , " do you have documentation to support any claim you be make ? " , but if the evidence be not there , the benefit of the doubt should be with the postmaster . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . leave the Post Office rudderless now , when people be literally die before they get redress , be not a situation we can put up with . the key question for the Minister be this : where be the Bill to expedite redress for those who be wrongfully convict ? will he commit this afternoon finally to make sure that we have pre - legislative scrutiny of that Bill so that it be as strong as it can be , and will he commit to a hard deadline enshrine in law in the Bill to make sure the payment be make as rapidly as possible ? frankly , Mr Bates and the other sub - postmaster who have be wrong for so long should not be make to wait a moment long . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question , but I do not accept his premise that the Post Office be rudderless . the chief executive be still there and I speak to he a few moment ago , prior to the urgent question . as I have say , we be look to appoint an interim chair as soon as possible and a permanent replacement shortly after that , and meanwhile the daily work of the board will continue . on our commitment to overturn conviction on a blanket basis , I appreciate the right hon . Gentleman ' s previous constructive collaboration and engagement with our Department , and I hope that continue . I be keen to engage with he on our approach . these be legal matter that need to be consider carefully and we have a number of meeting last week on this very issue , so I be keen to engage with he , but in a way that do not slow down the process of bring the legislation forward . he will find we contact he and knock at his door in the come day to talk about how we will go forward with that legislation . I should point out that Mr Bates ' s compensation be not relate to the overturning of conviction , because he be never convict . that be not what be get in the way of Mr Bates ' s compensation , although it be get in the way for something like 900 other people , and we be keen to resolve that as quickly as possible . will my hon . friend take this opportunity to look at the Post Office ' s report practice , under the former chairman , of make payment of just £ 5 , 000 under the Horizon shortfall scheme for distress and inconvenience to people it falsely accuse of theft , when a similar claim make at an employment tribunal , in the most exceptional case , be 10 time that amount ? to be clear , those scheme be run independently of the Post Office . there be independent process all the way through , and an independent panel assess the loss . I think my hon . friend be talk about the Horizon shortfall scheme , but it be clear that any tariff that might go with payment be not a ceiling — they tend to be a floor . People should of course be fully compensate for both their financial and their non - pecuniary loss ; that be a principle we have adhere to all the way through the process . we be look at the recommendation of the advisory board on how to make sure people who have be through those scheme have receive fair payment . in the group litigation order scheme , there will effectively be a minimum £ 75 , 000 fix - sum award . we be keen to ensure not only that we get the money out of the door , but that that compensation be fair and see to be fair . the Post Office bully , threaten and lie to sub - postmaster and , as we have hear , there be huge frustration that throughout the entire compensation process it have try to minimise payment , or use extra - long and complex form to avoid make payment to they . be the Minister confident that the compensation programme be truly independent and that sub - postmaster will get the full and fair payment they deserve ? I do not accept that premise . I do not see any evidence of the compensation scheme try to minimise payment . the independent panel for the Horizon shortfall scheme include Lord Garnier , for example , and seven or eight kc — very reputable people seek to do the right thing — so we must be careful in our rhetoric . of course we want to ensure that people get their full and fair compensation . that be why we implement the Horizon compensation advisory board , which include Lord Arbuthnot , the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , Chris Hodges and Professor Moorhead . they be decent people who want to ensure that people get treat fairly , and full and fair compensation be what people will get . clearly , in the wake of the Horizon scandal , there be a need for massive change in the culture drive Post Office management , particularly in its relationship with sub - postmaster , who be , after all , run private business under contract with — not own by — the Post Office . will the Minister ensure that whoever be appoint chairman commit themselves thoroughly to that culture change , and , if necessary , will he change other board member to ensure that we get the change that we all want to see ? that be a good point . in the past , the relationship between Post Office Ltd and sub - postmaster have not be where it should have be . it be important that that change . there have be much work on this : 100 area manager have be appoint to help build that relationship , and some of the past conduct and culture of the Post Office have change . however , we know that it need to change far . that be the job of the board ; we need the right leader of the board in order to do that — hence the action that we take over the weekend . poor leadership and governance of the Post Office lead to the badly design Horizon shortfall scheme , which other member have refer to . I have to say to the Minister that there have be massive under - compensation of sub - postmaster , include my constituent Mr Pennington . for 10 year , he be force to find shortfall amount total a possible £ 100 , 000 because of the Horizon system . he and his wife have to use their own saving , sell share and even jewellery , and remortgage their house twice . the stress and worry of find those shortfall over 10 year be immense , and Mr Pennington have a mini - stroke shortly after sell the business in 2012 because he could not stand pay the shortfall any more . yet the Horizon shortfall scheme have pay out a paltry £ 1 , 500 for those 10 year of stress and worry , and have compensate only half the shortfall . even the tax top - up promise in November have not yet materialise . I have write to the Minister about that case , but what action can he promise now to ensure that my constituent be finally compensate for those year of distress to he and his wife ? I be very happy to work with the hon . Lady on that particular case . we be clear that people should get full and fair compensation for financial loss and other impact , include reputational loss — [ interruption . ] I be set out the position as it be . of course , we be all concerned to hear about people who do not feel that they have be properly compensate . that be why we have the Horizon compensation advisory board , on which Lord Arbuthnot sit and to which I have refer a number of time . we be keen to ensure that all those people get , and can see that they have get , fair compensation . we be look at the recommendation for an appeal mechanism , for example . I be very happy to look at this particular case in that context . it be absolutely the case that people should be fully compensate for financial loss and other impact on their life . I welcome what my hon . friend have say . by take this action , the Government have accept by default that the arm ' s length body model for the Post Office do not work , so will he look again at the structure of Post Office Ltd , and will he confirm on the record that the former chairman , have leave by mutual consent , do not receive or accept any severance payment ? yes , I can confirm that there be no severance payment . I do not think it be fair to say that we do not think the arm ' s length model work . clearly , we have the right to terminate the chair ' s position , which be what we have do . ; that be part of the current governance process . of course , individual be important , and have the right individual lead the board be very important . we do not think that be the case prior to this weekend , which be why we take the action that we do . we be very keen to appoint the right person to help make the cultural change within the Post Office that we all want to see . Diolch yn fawr , Llefarydd . the effect of the Horizon scandal and Post Office business practice be still hurt our community . the post office in Nefyn close partly because staff no long trust the computer system , which I bet be happen in countless community . I have ask the Post Office to provide an outreach van in Nefyn if no business at all be willing to provide that service — as appear very likely , because I have ask business ; last week , the Post Office say no . will the Minister guarantee the people of Nefyn that this , the old and second large town in Llyn , will again have post service in the town ? I be very happy to take that point up with the right hon . Lady , and to meet she to discuss it . it be very important that our citizen — our consumer — have confidence in the Post Office . that have certainly be the experience in my patch : people have be outrage when there be a closure , so the general public definitely have some confidence in the service . the Horizon system be be replace . as far as I know , there have never be a case of a customer lose out because of the Horizon system , but I be very happy to meet the right hon . Lady to discuss her case in Nefyn . Shepherd ' s Bush Crown office close in 2017 , and Hammersmith Crown office close in 2020 after 100 year . four sub - office in my constituency have be temporarily close for up to 10 year . with queue at the remain office stretch around the block at time , and a lack of competition thank to multiple bank closure , will the Minister investigate why Post Office Ltd lack commercial sense as well as integrity ? I be happy to look into any case that the hon . Gentleman refer to . there be clear set criterion : the Post Office have to maintain 11 , 500 branch nationwide , and 99 % of the population have to be within three mile of a post office . the Post Office be maintain its requirement under those criterion , but I be very happy to talk to the hon . Gentleman about the issue . of course , we be look at how to ensure that the network of individual post office be sustain over the long term with new revenue stream , include through the access to cash legislation that the Government have put in place and thing like parcel hub . we think there be a bright future for the Post Office , but I be very keen to work with the hon . gentleman to make sure of that in his particular case . I recently raise serious concern with the Minister that the UK Government be not put enough effort into make sure that post office have a sustainable future — something that be of concern before the ITV drama shine a light on this issue . it be a challenge , and I do not feel that I really get an answer , so I be come back to the topic again : we really need to know that we have a clear , proper plan for ensure that there be no further deterioration of the network and to help build it back up . People in place like Neilston in my constituency , whose post office close two week ago , or Clarkston , whose post office close on Saturday , need those service . those closure be bill as temporary , but they be only temporary if someone have the confidence to take up the opportunity to be a postmaster — who would feel that way now ? what be the Minister ' s plan to address the issue and make sure we have post office service for all our community ? I agree with the hon . Lady . we need sustainable post office , and that be about revenue . there have be change in consumer habit and business level , which have cause difficulty for postmaster . as I say , the Government have legislate for access for cash , which be a new opportunity for post office . the banking framework deliver more revenue into those post office branch ; we be keen to see that enhance and for the Post Office to be more ambitious about that relationship , with that money flow straight into the profit and loss account of individual postmaster ’ branch . there be many other opportunity , include parcel hub and foreign exchange . I be happy to discuss the matter offline , if that would be helpful . the reputational damage to the brand of the Post Office as a direct consequence of the Horizon scandal have be massive — as the Minister know , my constituent Della Robinson be one of the 555 litigant who have their conviction quash a couple of year ago . look to the future , what be the Minister ' s vision for reinvigorate the Post Office as a great british brand ? I thank the hon . member , and I thank Della Robinson for her work . she be one of the trailblazer who be so important in get to where we be today and to our get compensation to the people affect . as I say in response to early question , I believe the Post Office brand be not damage ; it be the centre of the Post Office — those who run it from the centre — that be damage . I think we should all get behind our post office , and of course support they wherever we can . this be not about the brand itself . as I say , when I hear about any closure from colleague or in my constituency , I know that the local population be oppose to they , which identify the high esteem in which people regard their post office . I be very happy to have a conversation with the hon . member , if necessary . it have be very concern over the last few day to read that a senior UK Government civil servant collude with the Post Office to shut down the independent investigation by forensic accountant back in 2014 , and that he do so with the full knowledge of the coalition Government . now that the Metropolitan police be finally investigate possible criminality on the part of the Post Office and high - up employee , do the Minister agree that they should also be look at the possibility of misfeasance in public office ? that be certainly of concern to the Government as well . the inquiry be there to ascertain exactly who do what , or who do not do anything when they could have do something . the Met police will conduct investigation and take forward prosecution wherever they choose . that be not something we seek to influence , although as I have say from this Dispatch Box before , I would welcome somebody be charge or criminal charge be bring against somebody for what have happen in this horrendous scandal . the family member of a terminally ill constituent come to my surgery in Corkerhill on Friday ; that person be a shopkeeper in the highland who , like so many , be catch up with unexplained shortfall in Horizon total , and although that do not lead to criminal action , they pay up to avoid trouble — often borrow from other source to do so . can the Minister tell we whether work will be do to ensure that we know exactly how much in excess the Post Office claim through all Horizon error ? can he also tell I in general term how he will ensure that those who be terminally ill get the justice and compensation they richly deserve ? I be sorry to hear about the hon . member ' s particular case . the most important thing we can do be to get compensation to those people as quickly as possible . we have the first scheme that be implement , which sound as though that be the right one for his constituent — the historical shortfall scheme . I assume they have make an application to that scheme , and they should be compensate accordingly . about 2 , 400 people apply on time ; 100 % have receive offer and 84 % have accept those offer . that be a route to compensation . on the excess , we be very keen to find out exactly where that money go , and how it be deal with when it do appear in some kind of suspense account . that be something we be work on , but we be certainly keen to make sure people be compensate . it be the most important thing we can do right now . when consider the governance of Post Office Ltd , will the Minister bear in mind the demoralise impact of the Horizon scandal on current and potential sub - postmaster , as well as on the people who be victim of the scandal itself ? in our community , we be fight to return post office to Shap and to Hawkshead — as he know , because he kindly meet I to discuss they recently — and to maintain a post office in Staveley , but we be be hamper by apparent inertia and administrative hurdle , in Shap especially , which be the last thing we need . we need encouragement , not red tape . be there a plan to proactively support current and potential postmaster , so that we can maintain and expand our vital post office network in Cumbria ' s community and across the country ? yes , it be a pleasure to meet the hon . member , and I be happy to meet he again to try to expedite matter if he be experience delay . of course , check and balance need to be go through with any new postmaster application , but it be good to hear that people be come forward , and I be very happy to work with he to make sure that that situation be resolve as quickly as possible . Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories with permission , I will update the House on the situation in Israel and Gaza . last week , my noble Friend the Foreign Secretary visit the region as part of sustained british effort to end the fighting and build towards a last solution . this statement will also cover the International Court of Justice ' s decision on provisional measure , and the appalling allegation against the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees . as we debate these event , I know the whole House share my horror at the heart - wrench impact of this conflict . one hundred and fourteen day on from Hamas ' s barbaric attack , they still hold more than 130 hostage . innocent Palestinians be suffer , with over 25 , 000 people have die , and hunger and disease spread . the Government ' s end goal be clear : Israelis should be able to live without fear of Hamas terrorism , and Gazans should be able to rebuild their life . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister have lead our engagement in the region and with partner to achieve that goal . last week , he speak to President Biden and meet family of hostage , while my noble friend Lord Ahmad join a Security Council debate in New York . the Foreign Secretary visit Israel , the Occupied Palestinian Territories , Qatar and Turkey , meet leader , Ministers , and other hostage family . the Foreign Secretary call for an immediate pause to get more aid in and to get hostage out , and for that pause to turn into a sustainable , permanent ceasefire , without a return to fighting . the british Government have identify five vital step for that to happen : a political horizon that provide a credible and irreversible pathway towards a two - state solution ; form a new palestinian Government for the west bank and Gaza , accompany by an international support package ; remove Hamas ' s capacity to launch attack against Israel ; the release of all israeli hostage ; and key Hamas leader agree to leave Gaza . all those thing be intricately link , and we can not secure one without all the other . there be also many other element to consider , such as arab - israeli normalisation , security guarantee , and finance the rebuilding of Gaza , but we need to generate momentum now towards a permanent peace . that be why push for a pause now be so important , and why we need a Contact Group meeting , bring together the key player as soon as possible . I will now turn to the desperate humanitarian situation . the Government be focus on practical solution to get aid into Gaza . we have treble our aid to the Occupied Palestinian Territories since 7 October , commit £ 60 million this financial year . in Israel , the Foreign Secretary press for change to allow unhindered humanitarian access , such as open more crossing point for long and permit delivery via Ashdod port . he announce work with Qatar to get more aid into Gaza , with our joint consignment contain 17 tonne of family - sized tent be fly last Thursday . early this month , Royal Fleet Auxiliary Lyme Bay deliver 87 tonne of aid into Port Said . crucially , we be support the United Nations World Food Programme to deliver a new humanitarian land corridor from Jordan into Gaza , which have already deliver over 1 , 000 tonne of aid into Gaza . we know the desperate plight of civilian catch up in this and the suffering they be go through , and we will continue to do all we can with our partner to save life . I turn to the ICJ ruling and allegation against UNRWA . right hon . and hon . member will know that we have considerable concern about South Africa ' s decision to bring this case . Israel have the right to defend itself against Hamas , and we do not believe that Israel ' s action in Gaza can be describe as a genocide . of course , we respect the role and independence of the ICJ , and the Court have now reach a decision on provisional measure . it call for increase aid into Gaza , and measure to ensure basic service , as we have be call for . it have order Israel to preserve evidence relate to allegation of genocide , report to the Court on progress within one month . it have also order the immediate release of all hostage , and remind all party to the conflict that they be bind by international humanitarian law . those be point that we have be press consistently , and we will continue to press they after the Court ' s decision . for our part , Britain continue to engage closely with the israeli Government on the conduct of their military campaign in Gaza . we have say that they must take great care to avoid harm civilian and civilian infrastructure . finally , I turn to the very serious allegation about UNRWA first publicise last week , with further medium report over the weekend . the agency be critical to deliver humanitarian assistance into Gaza and across the region . it play a stabilise role at a time when we need focus on de - escalate tension . the UK be a long - stand donor to UNRWA , as be our close partner , notably the United States . since 7 October , we have allocate a furth £ 16 million to it as part of our response to the crisis . UNRWA ' s 13 , 000 staff in Gaza continue their work at great personal risk in the most dangerous circumstance : 152 UNRWA staff member have lose their life . the UK be however appal by allegation that any agency staff be involve in the 7 October atrocity . we welcome the swift action that UNRWA have take to terminate contract while it launch an immediate investigation . we and several partner be temporarily pause future funding until we have review these investigation . we continue to fund vital aid delivery through multiple other partner , include other UN agency and international and British non - governmental organisation . this week , the Government ' s engagement continue . the Foreign Secretary and Lord Ahmad will again travel to the region . I be travel to Qatar next week . we will continue to drive progress towards a lasting solution . as the Government have say , it be only when the prize of peace be more attractive than the potential benefit of continue conflict that there will be the chance of a well future . the time to start be now . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . last week , the International Court of Justice make an interim ruling under the genocide convention on the situation in Gaza . it be profoundly serious . the ICJ ' s interim ruling do not give a verdict on the case , but it set out urgent provisional measure . labour have be clear that Israel must comply with the order in the ruling in full , and Hamas terrorist must release all the hostage immediately , but I note that the missing Foreign Secretary make no statement . the only response that appear be from a nameless spokesperson the day after the judgment . it claim that the Government respect the role and independence of the ICJ , but state that they have " considerable concern about this case " . will the Minister give I a clear answer ? do the Government accept the Court ' s authority or not ? do they believe that the ruling should be implement in full ? if not , which order do they disagree with ? while the Government prevaricate , Labour be clear that international law must be uphold , the independence of international court must be respect and all side must be accountable for their action . that be why we will press for all the order to be implement alongside an immediate humanitarian truce and a sustainable ceasefire . the dire situation in Gaza must not continue . will the Minister update the House on the progress of negotiation to secure a truce that will lead to civilian be protect , the immediate release of all hostage and a humanitarian surge in Gaza ? I repeat that aid get into Gaza must surge , not stop . the allegation that a number of UNRWA employee be involve in the appalling 7 October terror attack appal the whole House . anyone involve should be hold to account by the force of the law . it be right that UNRWA have respond quickly by terminate contract of staff allegedly involve and launch an investigation . meanwhile , though , the humanitarian emergency in Gaza can not wait . twenty - five thousand people be dead , include thousand of woman and child , 85 % of the population be displace and million face the risk of famine . will the Minister confirm that exist UK aid will continue to flow into Gaza so that current operation can continue ? will he outline a clear and fast path for future funding to return ? we can not let innocent Palestinians lose lifesave aid because of Hamas terrorist . meanwhile , there continue to be a dangerous escalation across the middle east . we totally deplore the attack on US soldier . we offer our deep sympathy for those who have lose their life or have be injure in the attack , as well as to their family . we stand with our US ally at this time of grief . the attack be totally unjustifiable and raise tension at an already dangerous time in the region . Iran must cease these attack and de - escalate immediately . labour have long recognise the danger pose by Iran and its proxy . we have support sanction against Iran and have say for more than a year that , in government , Labour would proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , either through exist process or a new mechanism to tackle hostile state actor . what will it take for the Government to finally act ? on behalf of our brave military family who sacrifice so much every day to keep we safe , will the Minister outline what his government be do to boost protection for the 2 , 500 troop station across the middle east ? I welcome the Government ' s effort towards a permanent peace . the situation in the middle east can not be more serious . I must note that the Development Minister — as capable as he be — be not the main decision maker in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . when will the Foreign Secretary finally come to this House to answer question at this most dangerous of time ? I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for his comment , and I will try to address they all . let I start by thank he for his comment about british troop who be deploy in the region , particularly our naval personnel who have be on the frontline in recent day and week . I agree that their safety be a paramount duty of the Government , and he may rest assure that we take that extremely seriously . secondly , the right hon . Gentleman ask about my noble friend the Foreign Secretary . he will have see that over the past week the Foreign Secretary have take a lead international role in the region to try to move many agenda forward . in my statement I set out what the Foreign Secretary be do . he have make it clear that he will be ever present and able to answer question from member of this House , and the right hon . Gentleman may rest upon that . thirdly , the right hon . Gentleman mention the rise tension in the region and the importance of de - escalating . he ask I , once again , about the irgc . his point be note , but I can not comment on that on the Floor of the House , as he will understand . he talk about the importance of get aid back into Gaza . all our effort be set on that . he talk about the role of UNWRA ; I talk to Philippe Lazzarini , the head of UNWRA , about two hour ago , to check its critical asset in Gaza — whether warehouse , vehicle or store — without which no aid can get in . we all understand that they be essential for aid delivery , but the right hon . Gentleman will equally reflect that , give the very serious nature of the allegation , it be essential that the Government pause to ensure that they can not happen again . finally , on the ICJ , we welcome the Court ' s call for the immediate release of hostage and the need to get more aid into Gaza . we be clear that an immediate pause be necessary to get the aid in and the hostage out . on the wide issue that the right hon . Gentleman raise , we regularly call on Israel to uphold its obligation under international humanitarian law , and we will continue to do so . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . I welcome the update from the deputy Foreign Secretary about the Contact Group and progress be make . however , I be concerned that on 18 January in Al - Mawasi , a suppose safe zone in Gaza , the UK charity Medical aid for Palestinians and the International Rescue Committee have their compound bomb by an airstrike from an F - 16 jet . thankfully , the four british doctor live there be only injure , although that itself be a cause for concern . a month before that , on 22 December , it be confirm via UK defence channel that the IDF have log the co - ordinate of the humanitarian base and de - conflict it , mark it as a protect sensitive and humanitarian site . I be gravely concerned that the airstrike still take place . will my right hon . friend please share with the House what investigation be be conduct , what the IDF ' s response have be and whether his Majesty ' s Government have see the target permission for that airstrike ? I raise with UNRWA the concern of many colleague back in November about whether it be do enough security check on staff . be the goal of pause aid essentially to force it to get its house in order ? be that what we be try to achieve ? the ICJ ' s ruling be quite clear : Israel do have a right to self - defence , but it be not limitless . what be the Government do to ensure that we be fully in line with the ruling and the six condition place on Israel by the ICJ ? I thank the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee for her comment . on the latter point , as I have say , we continually remind the israeli Government of their duty under international humanitarian law . the bombing of the compound be an extremely serious matter , which , as she rightly say , need to be raise at the high level . it be raise by the Foreign Secretary in his meeting in Israel last week and , as soon as be practical after the detail get out , our ambassador in Tel Aviv raise it as well . on UNRWA , my hon . friend rightly refer to the fact that the asset it have , which I describe in my response to the shadow Foreign Secretary , be vital for the delivery of aid . the inquiry would normally have be carry out by UNRWA , but it will instead be carry out by the UN Office of Internal Oversight Services , which will conduct an immediate inquiry and report to the Secretary - General . we will obviously look very carefully at what it say . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Minister for prior sight of his statement . on Friday , despite concert effort to dismiss , ridicule and undermine South Africa ' s case , the International Court of Justice deliver a damn provisional ruling that order Israel to take all measure to prevent act of genocide in Gaza . the ruling have leave the UK Government with nowhere to hide , as they now have a legal obligation to protect palestinian civilian — an obligation that should , at the very least , mean an immediate arm embargo on Israel . however , we all know that the good way to protect civilian life , stop the killing and secure the release of the hostage be an immediate ceasefire . the ICJ ruling also demand that effective humanitarian assistance be provide to address the adverse condition of life face by Palestinians in Gaza . instead , the UK Government immediately choose to cut funding for UNRWA — one of the few organisation that stand between the people of Gaza and mass starvation — on the basis of 12 of its 13 , 000 employee have be accuse of take part in the atrocity of 7 October . if those accusation be true , it be absolutely right that action be take against they and that they be hold to account . however , by decide to cut funding to UNRWA , the UK Government have impose their own collective punishment on an already beleaguered and desperate civilian population , know with absolute certainty that that decision will result in the death of thousand of palestinian civilian . can the Minister explain the thought process that lead the Foreign Office to that decision ? what cognisance do it take of the ICJ ruling , and why do it choose to ignore it ? what assessment have the Department make of the number of palestinian child who will die as a direct result of that decision ? finally , do he not see that , by continue to arm the IDF , this Government place themselves on the wrong side of history , and that history will judge they accordingly ? the hon . Gentleman make four point , I think , which I would like to address . the first point be the importance of a ceasefire . he should be very clear that the Government want to see an immediate humanitarian pause so that we can get the hostage out and humanitarian support in , lead then to a sustainable ceasefire . I have explain our position . it relate to his fourth point , about how we ensure that this suffering end and manage to get the necessary humanitarian supply into Gaza . the hon . Gentleman ask about the ICJ . as I set out in my statement , we respect the role and independence of the ICJ . I point out that the Court have call for increase aid into Gaza and measure to ensure basic service , order the immediate release of all hostage and remind all party to the conflict that they be bind by international humanitarian law . we agree with that . it be extremely important that those point be respect . the hon . Gentleman ask about the cutting of UNRWA funding . we be not cut funding to UNRWA ; we be pause any future funding . we have make the funding available and there be no funding due for the rest of this financial year . clearly , future funding will depend on the result of the inquiry now in process . the ICJ have rightly dismiss South Africa ' s obscene demand for Israel to stop defend its people and instruct Israel not to stop , but only to prevent genocide , which of course it be already do . meanwhile , Hamas have be order to release the hostage , which they have not do . South Africa , whose crime rate be totally out of control , have meanwhile ban David Teeger , the young captain of South Africa ' s under - 19 cricket team , because he be jewish . be my right hon . friend concern about the safety of Jews in South Africa in these circumstance , and will he consider change Foreign Office advice on travel to South Africa ? my right hon . and learn Friend point — absolutely rightly , I believe — to the hideous nature of the charge against Israel of genocide , and I agree with he on that . on the release of hostage , which everyone have be ask for , I have read the report of the meeting that take place in France over the weekend . it be still not clear whether significant progress have be make , but we all very much hope that it have . the right hon . Gentleman mention the interim measure set out by the ICJ but refuse to answer the question from my right hon . friend the shadow Foreign Secretary . do the Minister believe that Israel have a legal obligation to comply with the measure set out by the ICJ ? the answer to that have be set out in the House on a number of occasion . Israel plan to act in accordance with international humanitarian law and have the ability to do so . that be what the british Government continually press upon the israeli Government . we all share the abhorrence of what happen in October , and this House have stand behind Israel in its right to defend itself , but this conflict , which have last for far too many decade , will only be solve with a two - state solution and a proper humanitarian response , lead by the israeli Government . do my right hon . friend have confidence that that will happen ? if not , what else can we do to put pressure on our friend the Israelis and say , " this be the only way forward for you " ? my right hon . friend make an extremely good point . we and our ally and friend , and virtually everyone in the region , believe that the only answer be a two - state solution , with Palestinians live behind safe border and Israelis live behind safe border as well . that be the policy of the Government , this House and the Opposition . we be pursue it vigorously , as Lord Cameron show in his many meeting last week . the Minister say that the Government do not support the reference to the ICJ , but that they support the outcome that justify that reference . give those mixed message , what confidence can we have that he be communicate to his israeli counterpart that the legally bind order of the Court must be comply with ? I have already set out the Government ' s response to what the Court say , but in response specifically to the hon . Gentleman ' s question , he may rest assure that those point be make by the Foreign Secretary throughout his extensive trip to the region last week . a pause in fighting , humanitarian aid and a long - last peace : all be need to stop people die now and in the future . I thank my right hon . friend for set out the five - point plan towards that long - last peace . I find it so frustrating that people who may be pro - Israel say to I , " there be no point talk about a two - state solution , because the palestinian people will never agree to it , " and people who may be a bit more pro - Palestine say , " there be no point talk about a two - state solution , because the israeli Government will never agree to it . " do he agree that everyone should stop second - guess what other will not agree to , and start work on what they will agree to and how we get there ? my right hon . friend make an extremely good point , and she will have note that those be exactly the tactic that the British Government be employ . we be quite clear about the importance of the two - state solution , and we hope that when the political track be able to recommence — a moment that can not come too soon — everyone will bend their sinew to deliver that result . no one be dispute the fact that Israel have the right to defend itself , but it must do so within the law , and that be what the ICJ have say . when the ICJ order provisional measure in the case against Myanmar , the UK Government welcome the decision and assert that Myanmar must do more " to protect the Rohingya . " in a statement , a Minister say : " we encourage the government of Myanmar to comply with the provisional measure , which be legally - bind " . be this Minister prepare to stand at the Dispatch Box and say the same of Israel ? do he encourage the Government of Israel " to comply with the provisional measure " , and do he accept that they be legally binding ? as we have make clear , we always emphasise the importance of abide by international humanitarian law . at the start of her question , the hon . and learn Lady set out the two key point that be make by the ICJ , about the importance of international humanitarian law and the release of the hostage , and the Government strongly approve of they . when we talk of collective punishment , let we remember that it be Hamas who subject the people of Gaza to collective punishment when they decide to steal aid and fuel mean for civilian , when they decide to embed their military capability in school and hospital in civilian area , and when they make it clear that they intend to continue to attack Israel in the way in which they do on 7 October . those be the people who have subject Gazans to what be happen now . as for UNRWA , accord to today ' s edition of the Wall Street Journal , intelligence suggest that 1 , 200 UNRWA staff be actual operative of Hamas or other palestinian terror group , 23 % of UNRWA ' s male employee have take part in Hamas ' s military or political framework , and 49 % of all UNRWA employee have family member or other relative who belong to Hamas or other Gaza - base terrorist group . be that what the money from the taxpayer of Brigg and Goole should be use for : funding group who wish to murder not just all Jews in Israel , but all Jews in this country ? that be why the Government have pause future payment . however , I should also make it clear that during my discussion this morning with Philippe Lazzarini , who run UNRWA , I specifically welcome the news that he will commission a totally independent review so that its conclusion will be unimpeachable . that mean discussion with the US State Department , include US congressional interest , with the European Union and with the United Kingdom , and the engagement of respected individual who might assist . it be that quality of investigation that be now require to satisfy not only my hon . friend , but many other on both side of the House who be extremely concerned about this . can the Minister explain what impact the review , and the time it will take , will have on the aid that be provide to people ? I recognise what he have say about what will happen in the future , but it be important for we to understand what the humanitarian impact of this change will be while the investigation happen . give his great record of campaign against genocide and for genocide prevention , can he also address the point about how the UK Government will speak to our israeli counterpart to ensure that Israel follow the prevention order that be so desperately need , as have be highlight by the ICJ case ? for many year , the hon . Lady and I have share a deep concern about the question of aid get through . I can tell she that while we be temporarily pause any future funding of UNRWA while we review these appalling allegation , we be absolutely committed to ensure that humanitarian aid get into Gaza for the people who need it so desperately . we do , of course , work with other organisation : the British Red Cross , UNICEF and the World Food Programme , which have be essential in bring vital supply from Jordan into Gaza . however , as I say in response to the shadow Foreign Secretary , the infrastructure that UNRWA have inside Gaza will always be fundamental to get humanitarian relief to the people who need it . I very much welcome the five - point plan , the call for an immediate pause in fighting and the contact group bring together stakeholder . the allegation direct at UNRWA be indeed serious , and we should all welcome the investigation order by the UN chief Ant ó nio Guterres . I understand why country include the UK have pause funding , but give that UNRWA be the primary humanitarian agency in Gaza , do the Minister agree that hold back fund for too long could see the humanitarian situation degrade far and lead to more Gazans join the rank of Hamas ? my right hon . friend , the former Chair of the Defence Committee , be right to focus on that issue . I also speak this morning to Sigrid Kaag , the humanitarian reconstruction co - ordinator for Gaza , and she make it clear to I that while we have zero tolerance of these dreadful thing that be allege to have be do , we can not operate at zero risk . the politic of logistic and distribution be a nightmare in Gaza , as my right hon . friend know . we will look carefully at these report , and we will suspend any future funding until we have they , but we recognise that the UNRWA asset be essential to deliver in Gaza . the ICJ ruling be incredibly serious for all side . can the Minister tell we today whether it be his Majesty ' s Government ' s analysis that Israel be operate within the measure that have be set out and , crucially , what consequence there will be if there be no observance of the ICJ ' s ruling ? the Minister have tell we for nearly 100 day now that we have be press for proportionate action in Gaza , but we have not get proportionate action in Gaza , so the question for the Minister must be : what be we now go to do differently to change behaviour on the ground ? I do not agree with the right hon . Gentleman that we need to do thing differently . we have be press very hard for these change to be make . when he be in the region , my noble Friend Lord Cameron try to advance the various issue epitomise in the five - point plan , which we be try to drive forward . the right hon . Gentleman ask I specifically about the judgment on international humanitarian law . as I have say to the House before , we know that Israel plan to act in accordance with international humanitarian law and have the ability to do so . clearly , these thing be look at all the time , but the judgment that we have make , which I have set out to the House in the past , remain current today . Israel be much more than Prime Minister Netanyahu . what more be we in the US and the UK do to encourage the moderate voice in Israel who argue for a definite democratic future for Gaza and the west bank ? above all , be there any more progress we can make to convince the israeli Government that it be not in their interest to have any more settlement or expansion of exist settlement ? it be the sense of helplessness among the palestinian people that be fuel this whole conflict , so what more pressure can we put on the israeli Government ? my right hon . friend accurately say that there be a plurality of opinion in Israel . we strongly support , and say within Israel , what we think be the right way forward , which above all be a two - state solution . during the course of my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary ' s visit , he be able to engage with President Abbas and the Palestinian Authority and assure they that there be a plan to push forward at the point where certain change be make in the way that the Palestinian Authority be run , and that Britain will be there at their shoulder to assist when that moment come . the ICJ ruling be highly significant all around the world , despite the Government ' s opposition to South Africa even take its case there . a few day later , when news come out of the issue face UNRWA , the UK Government , the US Government and other announce that they be withdraw funding from it . I understand that the british Government ' s payment be not due until April . presumably , the US Government have suspend payment immediately . the immediate effect on the most desperate people in the world — that is , the 1 million people around Rafah who be try to get something to eat , water to drink and medicine to be cure with — be that they be not get the support that they desperately need . have this Government be in touch with the israeli Government to demand that they adhere to the ICJ ruling ? will the Minister also tell we that , in light of the ICJ ruling , all british military aid to Israel have be suspend until such time as they abide by the ruling ? the right hon . Gentleman will have see the report of the Foreign Secretary ' s meeting , include with Prime Minister Netanyahu , during his series of regional visit last week . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s penultimate point , the Prime Minister speak to President Biden on 22 January . they discuss the UK and America ' s share deep concern about the terrible suffering and loss of civilian life . I have nothing to add to what I have already say about the ICJ ' s ruling , but the right hon . Gentleman may rest assure that we be very focused on the extraordinary degree of suffering that be take place in the area around Rafah , where so many people be effectively kettle without either shelter or food . what circumstance would change the Government ' s policy towards Israel , which be currently determined to oppose a two - state solution ? my right hon . friend reflect one strand of opinion in Israel , but he do not reflect the fact that there be many other . there be , not only inside Israel but across the region , internationally and at the UN , a very clear understanding that a two - state solution be the right answer . People may disagree about how we get there , but most accept that that be the destination . let the House be in no doubt that article 1 of the genocide convention make it absolutely clear that the UK have a legal obligation , not just a moral duty , to act to prevent genocide . while the Government be rightly fulfil those obligation , in part , in Burma , they have allow arm sale to the israeli military to continue , despite the concern of the Foreign Office ' s own legal adviser that the israeli military ' s action in Gaza be unlawful . now that the ICJ ' s interim ruling agree that it be legally plausible , under international law , that genocide be be commit in Gaza , possibly use arm sell by the UK , will the Government immediately suspend the sale of arm to the israeli military ? I make it clear to the hon . Gentleman that his interpretation of what the ICJ be say be not the Government ' s interpretation , or indeed the interpretation of many member of the House . I reiterate that throw accusation of genocide across the Chamber , in respect of Israel ' s activity in Gaza , be extraordinarily offensive and , in my view , totally wrong . the Foreign Secretary , write in the Mail on Sunday on 28 January , say how important it be to " allow vital aid to get in to Gaza , where people be starve and disease be spread . " indeed , the provision of aid have be a key cornerstone of the UK ' s response to the current crisis in Gaza , as the Minister outline , with £ 60 million of aid donate since 7 October . in the light of the recent decision to freeze funding to UNRWA , how will this aid be deliver ? follow the review , what action be the UK expect UNRWA to take to see the funding resume ? the action that UNRWA need to take be pretty clear : it need to make sure that nothing like this can ever happen again . I emphasise that we be not cut humanitarian supply to UNRWA at this time . we have pay up the money require for UNRWA to continue , and there be nothing plan until April — even before these terrible event , there be nothing plan until April — but we will review future funding in the light of the inquiry , which the Secretary - General will be receive as swiftly as possible . I echo and support the word of my right hon . friend the Member for Tottenham ( Mr Lammy ) . international law must be uphold and the ICJ ' s ruling must be implement in full . UNRWA have do vital work since 1950 , and it support refugee on the west bank and in Jordan , as well as in Gaza . UNRWA educate half a million child . the Minister mention the stabilise effect of its work in a very conflict - drive region . follow the suspension of 12 UNRWA staff , out of 13 , 000 , and the rightful condemnation of their action , will the Minister clarify the assurance that UNRWA operation will continue while investigation take place , and that ordinary Gazans will still be able to access that vital aid ? on the hon . Lady ' s final point , UNRWA humanitarian operation , get aid to people who need it , will not be fetter in any way by the british decision . she will be well aware that there be very significant logistical problem outside that , but the effect of the decision that we have make about suspend future payment do not affect the payment we have make already . I recognise the importance she attach to get more aid and humanitarian support into Gaza , and that be the absolute intention of the British Government . the Minister be right to reference the desperate plight of civilian in Gaza . one of my constituent , Dr Salim Ghayyada , be an NHS surgeon of 20 year and a UK citizen . he be terrify for his family , who be trap in Gaza . unlike other government , the UK Government be offer no help to UK citizen who have family stick in Gaza . will the Government consider a scheme for non - citizen , such as the Ukraine scheme , to help with this desperate situation — this plight for citizen in Gaza ? we have be work with partner to secure passage for all those who wish to leave , include british national and their family . we have help to facilitate over 300 british national leave Gaza . we be work with egyptian and israeli authority to ensure that any remain british national who want to leave but have not be able to do so previously can do so . rise — I do apologise ; I will now call two from the Government Benches . first , I call Dr Matthew Offord . in November , a report by the Institute for Monitoring Peace and Cultural Tolerance in School Education find that half of Gaza ' s 500 , 000 school pupil attend UNRWA - operate education institution and that the Palestinian Authority curriculum teach in those school be replete with antisemitism and encourage violence . the Minister say that he be go to suspend future payment , but the damage have already be do by decade of UK funding . I can tell my hon . friend that , when I be previously in government , I hear these allegation back in 2010 , 2011 , 2012 . I ask to see and have translate these school book , and I have in the past year raise the same point again . I have not see any evidence of what he be describe . if he would like to give the Government evidence , we will of course follow it up , but I must make it clear to he that both 10 year ago and in the past year no such evidence have be forthcoming . many of we have have concern about the activity of UNRWA and the people who work for it . the excellent question from my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) expose the number of UNRWA employee who be directly link to terrorist organisation , so what confidence can we now have that the aid we be provide actually get to the people who need it , rather than be divert by the terrorist that exist in Gaza ? if all these people from UNRWA be actually involve with the terrorist organisation , perhaps they could actually do something about assist with get the hostage out of captivity . my hon . friend be right to make it clear that get the hostage out be absolutely essential . he refer to the 12 people who have be identify , out of a workforce of 13 , 000 . I can tell he that the head of UNRWA tell I this morning that of the 12 , two be dead and one be mismatch , so we be talk about nine people . nevertheless , my hon . friend make the right point about the fact that this be completely intolerable . inquiry have be set up , within UNRWA and the more widely hold one that I describe in my opening remark , and we will wait to see what come out of those inquiry and make our plan accordingly . in his answer to the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) and in a number of other answer he have give , the Minister have say , " we have raise this with Israel " , as if that be enough . what do Israel say in response to the question raise by the hon . member for Rutland and Melton about a know humanitarian base be bomb ? what will the Government do to insist that Israel abide by the ICJ ' s rule that it must investigate and " punish the direct and public incitement to genocide " ? will we just " raise " that ? because Britain be a close ally and friend of many in the region and of Israel in particular , we be able to have difficult conversation . it be perfectly clear that both the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister have do so with the President and Prime Minister of Israel , and with a large number of member of their Cabinet . those discussion have seek to persuade they to accept the need for a vast increase in the humanitarian support get into Gaza , and to move forward towards the political track . those be the ambition and view of the British Government . through our close relationship , we be able to press all level of israeli society . I welcome the move to pause UNRWA funding , but the scale of the problem be much more significant than if it have involve only a handful of people , give the report that 10 % of UNRWA ' s 12 , 000 worker in Gaza be somehow link to Hamas and other terror group . a few week ago , it be reveal that a Telegram group use by 3 , 000 UNRWA teacher celebrate the 7 October massacre . give those appal early revelation , why do the Government not rethink our relationship with UNRWA before ? as my hon . friend make clear , those allegation be abhorrent . we have always be aware that there be danger in operate in the environment of Gaza . that be why this be one of the most inspected and scrub development and aid programme that Britain have anywhere in the world . I hope he will be reassure by what I say in response to my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) about the independence of the inquiry that be take place , and the fact that the inquiry team will add to their number respect , independent people who will , hopefully , be able to give a useful judgment , and engage in the EU , the UK , and on the hill in America to ensure that we move to a well position . have the Minister see the reaction to the ICJ judgment in Israel ? there be report at the weekend of a number of rally at which Netanyahu Cabinet member say , " the ICJ make judgment , but we make settlement . " there be now a call for settlement in Gaza , both in Khan Yunis and in Rafah . at the same time , Netanyahu be attack the Qataris , even though , from most aspect , they have be play a significant role in secure the release of hostage . he have also be refuse to engage in a discussion about the egyptian peace programme . in reality , the UK Government have virtually no influence over Netanyahu ; we should admit that . he will listen only to the Americans , so what discussion be we have with the Biden Administration to ensure that they maximise the pressure to bring about a ceasefire discussion and the release of the hostage and prisoner ? the right hon . Gentleman will know that the Government condemn the building of such settlement . he will have hear what I and other have say about the complete condemnation of settler violence , and the demand that the israeli Government hold to account those responsible for it , put they before the court and punish they . I will be in Qatar at the end of next week . I pay tribute to the work Qatar have do , particularly in try to assist with get the hostage out . on authoritative voice in Israel , I point he to the meeting that the Foreign Secretary , Lord Cameron , have have with Netanyahu . they have know each other for many year , and the Foreign Secretary be able to deliver some tough message , which I believe will be hear . report of UNRWA staff potentially be involve in the 7 October massacre — one of the bad pogrom against jewish people since the holocaust — bring horror to many people , especially now that we be learn that up to 10 % of UNRWA employee have some link with Hamas . I know that the Minister have say that there will be an independent review of UNRWA . can he assure I that it will be independent , and that the UK Government will have input into it to make sure that the UN be not mark its own homework ? if these allegation be true , what will we do about UNRWA ? we can not continue spend taxpayer ' money on fund antisemitic terror attack . the review will not be a case of UNRWA mark its own homework . it have specifically accept that it must be a different part of the United Nations , far away from UNRWA , that make these judgment . we will look very carefully at what inquiry reveal . I be completely with my hon . friend on ensure that nothing like this can happen again . I hope that the independence that be be inject into these inquiry will give he some confidence that we be move to a different place . as other have say , the ICJ ' s interim ruling could not be more serious , and it set out urgent provisional measure that must be take . I be sorry , but the Minister have not yet be clear on this point , so I will ask he again : do the Government agree that Israel have a legal obligation to comply with those measure ? what role will the Government play in ensure that within one month of the ruling , Israel submit a report to the Court on the step that it have take to comply with the order , as it be require to ? I think I have answer the point that the hon . Lady make about the ICJ . let I reiterate once again that we regularly call on Israel to uphold its obligation under international humanitarian law , and we will continue to do so in all circumstance . the allegation against employee of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency be appalling , but UNRWA remain a vital source of food and support for the palestinian people . I can already hear voice from the conservative back Benches that seem to be call for we to throttle funding for UNRWA for the long term . can my right hon . friend advise we on what will happen between now and April , as regard his representation to the Chancellor on the Budget and contingency funding for this organisation after April ? we will make our plan for funding know to the House in the usual way , but we can not do so until we have see the report and be clear that what have be reveal can not happen again . let I emphasise to my hon . friend that the UNRWA infrastructure asset inside Gaza — the warehouse , the vehicle , the store , and UNRWA ' s ID system , which be use by the israeli Government — will have to be use , regardless of who use they . what step be the Government take , in line with their obligation under international law , to ensure the full and immediate implementation of provisional measure order by the ICJ regard the protection of Palestinians from genocide , and the immediate provision of humanitarian aid and other vital service ? can the Minister confirm whether the UK will now end arm sale to Israel , due to the risk that they could be use unlawfully to kill woman and child ? we keep all arm export under review . the hon . Lady will know that we have one of the tight regime in the world . clearly , we will consider any impact from the Court ' s ruling . in respect of the other point that she make , she will have hear what I say about the ICJ ruling , and indeed what I say about throw around allegation of genocide across the House . I thank my right hon . friend for update the House , follow a number of very significant and concern development in recent day . we should not forget that , in the midst of all this , dozen and dozen of family continue to live every day with the anguish of know that one of their love one be be hold hostage in unknown condition . they do not know their whereabout , or about their wellbeing or the condition in which they be be hold . should not the immediate and unconditional release of all hostage hold by Hamas be the one thing that every member of this House call for , follow the ICJ report ? my hon . friend be absolutely correct . he set out the Government ' s position on the release of hostage . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) and I have the deeply move task of attend a meeting at which we hear at first hand about the awful plight of the hostage . my hon . friend may rest assure that the British Government , work with partner , will do everything that they can to secure their release as swiftly as possible . the hon . member for Rutland and Melton ( Alicia Kearns ) raise the dreadful , appalling issue of the targeted israeli airstrike on the MAP compound — the compound of a british charity — in Gaza . on behalf of the National Union of Journalists and the International Federation of Journalists , I would like to raise with the deputy Foreign Secretary the fact that almost 100 journalist have be kill in Gaza since 7 October . their bravery have keep the world inform and expose some of the appalling atrocity that we see daily . what do he plan to do to stop the deliberate targeting of journalist ? I remind he that the ICJ ruling particularly say that we must , as part of its provisional measure , continue collect evidence of breach . the hon . Gentleman will know that the Government , in particular through the work of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , have do their good to stand up for journalistic integrity , and the right of journalist to report on such circumstance ; I strongly agree with what he say about that . on the bombing to which he refer , I draw his attention to what I say early : it have be raise by the British Government , and be raise as soon as practical by the ambassador in Tel Aviv . the Minister have speak at length about this country ' s relationship with Israel , and the powerful network of advocacy that could work towards the noble cause of secure a ceasefire , a safe Israel and a free Palestine . let we see whether he will use they today . will he be clear that the Government , in their next conversation with the israeli Government , will condemn the far - right israeli Ministers who attend the conference this weekend in Jerusalem about the resettlement of Gaza ? member of Likud , include the National Security Minister , say that Israelis need to find a legal way to voluntarily emigrate Palestinians . will the Minister of State also confirm that the UK will support the report broker deal by Israel , the US , Egypt and Qatar on the immediate release of the remain Hamas hostage ? how will the Government use our voice ? on the final point , of course we be work very closely with the Qataris and the Administration of the United States to effect the release of the hostage . although I can not give a run commentary to the House , the hon . Lady may rest assure that we be intimately engage in that . she talk about our effect and reach within Israel . it be not just within Israel ; it be in the whole region . the british diplomatic service have unparalleled reach , in term of talk about the way ahead and the political track , and we be exercise it . on the rally that take place over the weekend and the report that she mention , the policy mention be not those of the British Government . give the mount report of evidence of war crime and crime against humanity commit by Israel , and now serious recognition by the ICJ of the real risk of genocide , do the UK Government accept that the provision of weapon may lead to complicity in such a crime , and will they therefore immediately cease license arm and security equipment to Israel ? the hon . Gentleman will know that Britain have one of the most effective and tough arm sale regulation authority in the world . he may rest assure that its provision do not change when it be deal with Israel — or any other country . the International Court of Justice be the world ' s top court and a lead body of the United Nations , and its order be bind . it have call on Israel to take all measure within its power to prevent the killing of , or cause of serious harm to , people in Gaza , yet hundred more people in Gaza have be kill since Friday ' s ruling . as a signatory to the ICJ , do the Government not have a legal as well as a moral duty to uphold , and not undermine , the ICJ ' s ruling , and to do much more to stop Israel ' s action in Gaza ? should that not include suspend arm sale to Israel ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s final point , I have set out the position on arm sale and the regime that the british Government set up and support . I think I have also set out the Government ' s position on the ICJ very clearly , and I have nothing to add to what I have say . I be increasingly worried about the trend in this Government towards the casual acceptance of international law and international court when it suit . that really be not good enough . the ICJ interim ruling state that article II of the genocide convention must be uphold , include ensure the provision of humanitarian assistance to civilian in Gaza . give what the Minister have say about UNRWA , and the fact that it be the large humanitarian agency in Gaza , if the UK and other donor decide not just to pause their support , but to cease it completely and permanently , how be the Government and other international donor go to ensure the same capacity of humanitarian relief — and if they do not , be they in contempt of the ICJ ruling ? I be not a lawyer , so I be not able to answer any of the hon . Lady ' s legal point — nor should I , across the House — but I can assure she that we be committed to make sure that international relief and humanitarian supply get into Gaza . that be the burden of much of the discussion and comment that the british Government be engage in . I discuss it with Jamie McGoldrick and Martin Griffiths , the head of the Office for the Co - ordination of Humanitarian Affairs , over the weekend . we be do everything we can to expand the ability to get aid into Gaza . on UNRWA , the hon . Lady will know that , while we have make it clear that we will not be make any further payment until the inquiry be complete to our satisfaction , nevertheless the funding we have already give to UNRWA be have an effect on the ground . we just want to make sure that it reach the people for whom it be intend . early the Minister fail to answer the question put to he by my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) , so I will ask a similar question and give he another opportunity . give the ICJ ' s interim ruling that the risk of genocide in Gaza be plausible , will the Minister suspend UK arm sale to Israel to ensure that UK weapon be not use to kill innocent Palestinians ? on the subject of both arm sale and the ICJ , I have set out for the hon . Gentleman the Government ' s position . I be afraid that , just because he ask the same question again , it do not mean he be go to get a different answer . two month ago , I ask the government whether they would consider provide specialist treatment for the wound child of Gaza in UK hospital , as be often do when there be a natural disaster or a cruel war abroad . the Minister respond at the time by say that the choice be to increase in - country aid , and he refer to the increase of £ 16 million in his statement . give the destruction of hospital in Gaza and the dire state of medical facility , will he reconsider that stance ? we be consider whether we should join with the United Arab Emirates , which be lift people out of Gaza , particularly child , and give they support in the UAE . the hon . Gentleman will also know that we have deploy an emergency medical team who be look at the situation there , and we would , if it be appropriate , deploy a field hospital — indeed , we would deploy it into Gaza , if that be practical and appropriate . on the critical subject of try to ensure that we help all those who be hurt and wound , particularly child , he may rest assure that we be look at all aspect of that . we talk about statistic as though they be not human life : 26 , 000 man , woman and child kill , 1 . 9 million people displace , and a human catastrophe engulf the people of Gaza . the five - point plan be great . we know what need to be do . the fighting have to stop , the aid have to get in , the hostage need to be release , and we need to rebuild both the civilian infrastructure and hope for the Palestinians . however , there be one roadblock to a palestinian state , and that be Prime Minister Netanyahu and the ally around he in government . they do not want Judea and Samaria to be hand over to the Palestinians for their state ; they want the resettlement of Gaza . during his visit to see the Prime Minister of Israel , do the Foreign Secretary tell Mr Netanyahu that his view on the creation of a state of Palestine and on a second Nakba be not just unacceptable and wrong but abhorrent ? the hon . Gentleman make the point about number as statistic , but those number speak for themselves — there will be no one in the House who do not reflect upon the catastrophe that have engulf Gaza . he go on to set out a very eloquent road map for move forward and for progress . he ask about the Foreign Secretary ' s discussion with Prime Minister Netanyahu . I think that that be a matter for either Prime Minister Netanyahu or the Foreign Secretary to reveal , but I can assure he that the Foreign Secretary would have be his usual robust self in set out the position of the British Government . in respect of Prime Minister Netanyahu be the blockage , as the hon . Gentleman put it , to the ceasefire and to progress , I would point out to he that Hamas have make it clear that they be not interested in a ceasefire ; what they want be a repeat of the appalling event that take place on 7 October . accord to Euro - Med Human Rights Monitor , in just two day since the International Court of Justice ruling , at least 373 Palestinians have be kill by israeli bombing and airstrike , include 345 civilian , and 643 other have be seriously injure . Israel be already in breach of the order . what action be the Government take to prevent the killing of Palestinians in Gaza ? will they now stop arm Israel , call for an immediate ceasefire and stop allow Israel to act with impunity ? will the Minister tell the House what legal advice the Government have receive in relation to ensure that the UK be not complicit in act of genocide ? the hon . Lady set out with great eloquence the jeopardy and difficulty face the people of Gaza at this time . I hope that it be of reassurance and comfort to she that the Government also recognise how difficult the situation be and be do everything we possibly can to help move on to a political track and end the great difficulty that she set out . the ICJ ' s ruling be clear and specific , and respect for the international Court be of the utmost importance , yet in response the Minister seem to be say simply that it be business as usual . may I press he again on what step the Government be take to ensure that the provisional measure order by the ICJ be comply with in full ? what do he believe should be do to ensure accountability ? I believe it essential that there be an immediate humanitarian pause to get aid in and hostage out , that Hamas must agree to the release of all hostage , that Hamas can no long be in charge of Gaza , and that an agreement must be in place for the palestinian authority to return to Gaza to provide governance , service and security . that be the way in which we make progress , and that be the commitment and policy of the British Government . the Minister refer early to the extraordinary degree of suffer in Gaza . we need an immediate ceasefire to stop that humanitarian disaster and get the aid in now , but such have be the level of destruction in Gaza that the need for aid work will continue for many month and year . when the Minister speak to he early , do Philippe Lazzarini indicate , first , how long his inquiry be likely to take , and secondly , when the pause in funding will start to impact on the agency ' s humanitarian aid work ? Philippe Lazzarini do not indicate a specific timeline , but I would be very surprised if it could not be complete within the next two month . it be essential that it be , because we and other need to make our plan to fund humanitarian relief , and in make those plan , we will need to decide what we be go to do about UNRWA . it be report that the head of the CIA , of Mossad and of egyptian intelligence and the qatari Prime Minister have agree on a new hostage deal framework to put to Hamas . that deal would reportedly include the release of the remain american and israeli hostage in phase , start with woman and child , in exchange for palestinian prisoner . can the Minister inform the House whether the UK be involve at all in negotiate that framework , and whether the Government be use their diplomatic position to press for the release of all the hostage as soon as possible ? the british Government be very strongly in support of the process that the hon . Lady have describe , which take place in France over the weekend . I have hear the report in the medium about this matter , but at this point , I be not in a position to update the House authoritatively on its result . I be sure the Minister will have see the harrowing ITV News interview and subsequent video of an innocent palestinian civilian brandish a white flag in a so - call Gaza safe zone as he be shoot dead in cold blood by the israeli army . do the Minister think that that constitute a war crime , and what representation have the UK Government make to the israeli Government about it ? I have see many video of that sort , and my reaction be the same as the hon . Gentleman ' s . in term of what the British Government be do , as I have set out throughout this statement , we be intent on help to ensure that the situation be bring to a conclusion as rapidly as possible and , in the meantime , that we get aid and humanitarian support into Gaza to help those who be suffer so grievously there . the International Court of Justice rule that it be plausible that Israel be commit a genocide in Gaza should have be the moment that this Government suspend arm sale to Israel and finally call for an immediate end to Israel ' s bombardment of Gaza . instead , they be stop their funding for the UN aid agency that million of Palestinians rely on . the recent allegation must be investigate , but the Government ' s decision collectively punish the palestinian people and will lead to more starvation . in light of the ICJ ruling , what legal advice have the Minister receive that say that continue to arm Israel while stop funding for Gaza ' s primary aid agency be consistent with the Government ' s obligation under the genocide convention ? first of all , we be not stop fund UNRWA ; we be not commit any future fund . Britain have be fund UNRWA and be fund it today , but in the circumstance , until the inquiry have be complete , we be not willing to pledge any additional fund to UNRWA at this time . in respect of the hon . Lady ' s interpretation of the ICJ ruling , I must reiterate what I have say : that understanding be not the understanding of the British Government . the Minister ' s statement be silent on the west bank . he will be aware of report of increase settler violence , shepherd be force from their land , the confiscation of livestock , the imposition of fuel blockade , and the arrest of palestinian civilian who have be place under administrative detention — that is , indefinite detention without charge . what assessment and representation be the Minister make regard those serious report that keep come out of the west bank ? as the hon . Gentleman will have see , the british Government have condemn without qualification settler violence and illegal act that have take place on the west bank , and have make it absolutely clear that when such act take place , those who commit they must be hold to account , put before the court and punish . in respect of the overall situation on the west bank , Lord Cameron be there last week and have some extremely good meeting — not just with President Abbas , but with other in the Palestinian Authority — where he sketch out a way in which Britain can be by their side and help they when a political track be possible , and say that they should make the necessary reform first , before that political track become available , so that they be ready to go when it do . on Friday , the ICJ determine that there may be plausible ground that Israel be commit genocide against the Palestinians in Gaza . with that in mind , and with the case ongoing , will the Minister confirm that we will take the only serious option available to separate ourselves from the risk of complicity , which be to demand an immediate ceasefire , immediately ban all sale of arm to Israel — include end assistance in the transfer of any arm to Israel , such as via the Akrotiri base in Cyprus — and ensure that sufficient funding be provide so that humanitarian aid reach those people in desperate need ? the hon . Lady will understand that the issue be not with provide aid , but get it in . there be plenty of aid ready to go into Gaza ; it be get it in that be most important . she will have hear what I have say about Britain ' s arm regime . on the demand for a ceasefire , the british Government have set out very clearly that we want to see a humanitarian pause , the hostage free and aid get into Gaza , and then we want to see a sustained ceasefire . however , I draw her attention to my early comment that that be not something Hamas want to see . this be the policy the British Government will pursue — the pause , get the hostage back and a sustainable ceasefire — with every sinew that we can bring to bear . teeswork Joint Venture with permission , I would like to update the House on the independent review into the South Tees Development Corporation and the Teesworks joint venture , which the Government be publish today , have receive the final report last week . before turn to the specific of the report , it be important that I remind the House of the significance and sheer scale of this project . teeswork , in north - east England , be the United Kingdom ' s large industrial zone . remediate and regenerate the former Redcar steelwork be a highly complex brownfield regeneration opportunity , the alternative to which be a massive liability to taxpayer in clean - up cost and an annual multimillion pound bill just to maintain a highly contaminate site . most importantly , as Michael Heseltine say in his 2016 landmark report on the Tees valley , the site be also part of " a much big picture " , and one that provide an opportunity for regeneration that be unrivalle not only in size and scale , but in potential opportunity , as we be see with the development of the freeport . that be why it be too important to the community of the north - east for Teesworks to be use as a political football . over the course of the last year , use parliamentary privilege , the hon . member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) , who be not in his place , have make a series of allegation about Teesworks . this culminate in April and May 2023 , when the hon . Member speak , and I quote for the record , of the existence of " industrial - level corruption " and " dubious dealing " . these accusation be about the most serious that can be make . if true , they would almost certainly be criminal . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Minister have just say that my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) be not in his place . he should recognise that my hon . friend have be through some serious surgery and have a proxy vote for the foreseeable future . will he acknowledge that that be the case , instead of have a snide go at my hon . friend ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point of order . I have assume that the Minister have inform the hon . member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) that he be go to refer to he , so I have also assume that the Minister will have know of the circumstance . indicate assent . in that case , yes , the Minister might like to acknowledge that he recognise there be a reason why the Member be not in his place . I be absolutely happy to acknowledge to all member that the Member be not in his place for a reason . equally , however , the Member make a series of statement previously and I be seek to respond to those . order . that be not really — [ interruption . ] excuse I , but I can handle this , thank you . that be not really what I be refer to . I be just refer to the fact that there be a reason why the Member be not in his place , not the other point the Minister be make . Minister , do carry on . these accusation be about the most serious that can be make . if true , they would almost certainly be criminal , and their mere existence threaten confidence in this immensely important , complicated and challenging project . at the request of the Tees Valley Mayor , an extraordinary independent review be launch by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , to consider the allegation as well as the combine authority ' s oversight role . today we have the answer to the primary question about the extremely serious charge of corruption and illegality — they be not correct ; they be untrue . for the avoidance of doubt , let I repeat that : no corruption , no illegality . there be no evidence to back up the bad of the allegation repeatedly throw at the local party manage the project , no referral onwards to other body for further review , and no substance to the most serious of allegation . in addition , and at the Secretary of State ' s request , the panel have also make a series of constructive recommendation , include strengthen governance and increase transparency . we welcome that oversight , as do the Mayor of the Tees Valley , who have confirm that he intend , in principle , to accept all the recommendation relevant to he and his authority . for the two recommendation relevant to central Government , the Department will carefully consider how to support the continued success of mayoral development corporation across the country . I know that colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and his Majesty ' s Treasury will also consider the recommendation regard landfill tax . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State have today write to the Tees Valley Mayor , ask that he respond to the panel ' s recommendation , with an initial response within six week . my right hon . friend will of course wait to review those proposal before decide on further action , but the central point bear repeat : nothing be find by the reviewer to support the very serious allegation make . this report have be a detailed and thorough piece of work , and I place on the record my great thank to the three - strong panel for their thorough and well inform work over recent month . I thank Angie Ridgwell , chief executive of Lancashire County Council ; Richard Paver , previously first treasurer of the Greater Manchester Combined Authority ; and Quentin Baker , director of law and governance at Hertfordshire County Council . copy of the review , and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State ' s subsequent correspondence with the Mayor and the panel , will be place in the Library of the House . finally , I wish to remind right hon . and hon . member about the rich heritage of Tees Valley . it have a proud industrial history and this Government be commit to give it the proud possible future , put it front and centre of our mission to level up the country , and support all our region to prosper and flourish by make sure that local people have project they can champion . the independent review have clear the Tees Valley Mayor and the combine authority of lurid allegation of corruption and illegality , and it have recommend improvement that I be confident will be drive by local stakeholder . we be delighted to support a project that be bring huge benefit to the people of Teesside and the rest of the UK , and for all those reason I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Minister for an advance copy of the statement , but we know that a draft of this report have be float around the Department since November , so why have it only surface today ? how be it that the medium be report the outcome of the report this morning , when it be only release by the Department at 4 . 20 this afternoon ? although we have only be give just over an hour to consider the 75 - page report before come to the Dispatch Box , it be immediately clear why the Government wait until the last possible minute to release it , because it be damn . the issue have always be one of value for money , and on that the report show that taxpayer ' money be not be spend in the way the public should expect . let I quote directly from the report : " the governance and financial management arrangement be not of themselves sufficiently robust or transparent to evidence value for money . " on transparency it state : " we find evidence of inaccuracy and omission in report which undermine decision " , and " we do not see sufficient information provide to the Board to allow they to provide effective challenge and undertake the level of due diligence expect of a commercial Board . " it also state : " there be no oversight of Teesworks Ltd , despite request from various combine authority member and Committees " . finally it state that " there be not a robustness within the system . inappropriate decision and a lack of transparency which fail to guard against allegation of wrongdoing be occur , and the principle of spend public money be not be consistently observe . " those be not minor , trifle concern ; they reveal a systemic and flawed decision - make process that hinder transparency and fail to show value for money . this scandal have expose gap in accountability , and serious question remain about the lack of local democratic scrutiny throughout the process . it be now clear than ever that that need to be investigate by the National Audit Office . it be an astonishing decision in the first place for the Government to ignore the call for a fully independent investigation into the serious allegation that have arise , not just from Labour Members but from the Tees Valley Mayor in question , three Select Committee Chairs and Members across the House . even the NAO say that it be " willing and able " to carry out the probe . instead , the Government hand - pick a panel to investigate only the most serious allegation . I will ask the Minister three question , in the hope that we can finally begin to uncover the answer necessary to draw this saga to a close . first , will he now refer the situation to the National Audit Office , not only to give the people of Teesside answer but to give the public confidence that it will never be repeat again ? secondly , will he assure the House that no one be prevent from provide evidence to the inquiry as a result of non - disclosure agreement ? finally , can he tell the House with confidence that the Teesworks project represent value for money ? early this month , the Secretary of State , in evidence to the Business and Trade Committee , say that he want people " to make a judgment on the basis of the fact . " well , these be the fact : a publicly own asset have be turn into a cash machine for private investor , earn they at least £ 124 million so far . that eye - watering return require no investment and involve no risk on the part of private investor , and nobody else be give the opportunity to participate in the venture . the report do not change those fact — indeed , it confirm they — and no amount of spin from Government Members will change that , no amount of bluster will make this a good deal for the taxpayer , and nothing say today will change the view still hold by many that something be seriously wrong in the Tees Valley . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman for his valiant attempt to try to move the discussion on . the basic fact be that Opposition Front - Bench Members ask for a review , and they get a review . they infer that there be significant problem , and it have be prove comprehensively through an independent review that there be no corruption and there be no illegality . the hon . Gentleman ask why the report only surface today . we receive the final report last week . to support the transparency that hon . member in the House seek , and the comprehensiveness they wish for , we have seek to get the report out as quickly as possible , and it be here today for people to comment on and to misrepresent if they so choose . it appear that some may choose to do so . the hon . Gentleman quote from the report . I be also happy to quote from the report . as I indicate in my statement , the serious allegation that be the genesis of the report have be prove to be incorrect . where there be thing that can be improve , that will happen , and the Mayor of Tees Valley have already indicate that he will do that . but it be important that we put this in context . the hon . Gentleman talk about governance , and at paragraph 22 . 3 the report say : " the Board largely feel engaged and make unanimous decision . " at paragraph 11 . 3 , it say : " the Panel note the largely positive assurance provide by internal audit . " paragraph 22 . 3 say that " there be much that do follow due process " . Most crucially , give that the whole challenge be about ensure that the benefit of Teesworks come to the people of the north - east at the early possible opportunity , the report say clearly at paragraph 22 . 1 that " much have be achieve in a relatively short space of time " . that be thank to the Mayor of the Tees Valley and the Conservatives in the north - east . I be pleased that the report have be publish today and thank the Minister for his statement . teeswork be critical for my constituent and the whole of Teesside , and the report confirm that for every £ 1 of public money that have be invest , the taxpayer will receive £ 9 . 50 back , and that be on the basis that only 17 % of the site have be develop . as my hon . friend the Minister say , the hon . member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) allege " industrial - scale corruption " in the House . he do so for overtly political reason , which sadly Opposition Front - Bench Members have repeat today . labour want Teesworks to fail . nonsense ! labour put politic before people , and the furious denial of the hon . member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) do nothing to disguise the fact that he and his colleague have connive in make malicious allegation that this afternoon have be fundamentally prove to be false . the independent review confirm that no illegality occur . do my hon . friend agree that the hon . member for Middlesbrough ought to apologise to the House , and to all those who be name in the report and falsely accuse by he ? do he also agree that the hon . member for Middlesbrough should resign for act against the interest of the constituency that he serve and , indeed , against the interest of the whole Tees Valley ? my right hon . friend speak loudly for Teesside and his constituency . I will take the steer of Madam Deputy Speaker and keep my remark solely to the statement make previously . the hon . member for Middlesbrough state clearly , on 20 April in this place , that there have be " truly shocking , industrial - scale corruption on Teesside . " — [ Official Report , 20 April 2023 ; Vol . 731 , c . 383 . ] in the same business question session , he repeat " industrial - scale corruption " . a few day later , in another business question , he refer to " dubious dealing " . those remark have prove to be incorrect , and I hope that he withdraw they as soon as he be able to do so . I apologise for my outburst , Madam Deputy Speaker . will the Minister join I in congratulate Mayor Houchen ' s partner , Musgrave and Corney , for pull off the business coup of the 21st century ? without spend a penny , they secretly acquire 90 % of the share in Teesworks , which have have hundred of million of pound of taxpayer ' money invest in it . they have do multi - million - pound deal to lease it to other , include the combine authority , have make over £ 100 million in profit in just one year , and have secure control of the business development at Teesside airport when no one else get a look in . that be all in the gift of Mayor Houchen , who , the report say very clearly , have fail on both governance and transparency — something I have say time and again . that be the accusation that I have make . do the Minister accept that this be a terrible deal for the taxpayer and the people of Teesside ? will he now hand it over the NAO , as other have request , so that all aspect of the business at teeswork — not just those choose by the Secretary of State — can be independently investigate ? again the Labour party attempt to move the discussion elsewhere , and I will call it out every time . the report be set up because of extremely serious allegation of industrial - scale corruption , which have prove to be incorrect . the least that Labour member could do when stand up to read their pre - prepare speech be to acknowledge that they be wrong . I thank the Minister for his statement , which will give my constituent the reassurance they need that Tees Valley Mayor Ben Houchen be do thing by the book and for the benefit of our region . the uncertainty and suspicion raise have be damaging to our region ' s reputation and to investment prospect . the whole Tees Valley have benefit from Ben ' s vision and leadership , which have lead to job , investment and a renew sense of Tees pride . now that , thankfully , we have this report , do my hon . friend agree that unfounded and scurrilous allegation should not be air in this place ? do he far agree that Teesside be not well serve by continually be talk down by the Labour party , and that those who have peddle damaging allegation should apologise ? my hon . friend speak up loudly for the north - east and his constituent . he be absolutely correct that this be a huge opportunity for the north - east , and about the transformative potential of Teesworks . he be also absolutely correct that it be the responsibility of all member of the House to be cautious and careful in their language to ensure that those benefit be realise for the people who matter the most — the people of the north - east . over the weekend , when the right hon . member for Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland ( Sir Simon Clarke ) and I appear on the excellent local medium programme " Politics North " , it become obvious that member on the Government Benches have an insight into the publication date and content of the report , which Opposition Members do not . I be very glad that the report have be publish , but to spin it as some kind of vindication of Mayor Ben Houchen be absolute nonsense . give that be the spin that the Conservatives be go for , why will the Minister not demonstrate that teeswork provide the value of money that he assert by have an independent inquiry by the National Audit Office ? the north - east get little enough investment ; we must make sure that every pound count . why can the National Audit Office not be allow to demonstrate that ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady ; I have the great respect for she , and she provide immensely important contribution in this place . but she will recognise , I hope , when we move away from the talk point , that there have already be a review , which be already independent and have already follow due process — the same process , by the way , that be follow for Labour - control Birmingham , when the council there lose £ 1 billion ; the same process that be follow with Labour - control Croydon , which lose hundred of million of pound and have serious governance issue ; and the same process that be follow with Labour - control Slough , when it do something similar . if those process be good enough and independent enough for Labour in those instance , when Labour be in charge of those authority , why be they not good enough here ? be it simply because Labour be try to make a party political point because an election be come up ? the hon . member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) clearly make comment that be not just wrong , but extraordinarily emotive and design to do nothing other than undermine confidence in the tremendous investment work that have be do by the Conservative Tees Valley Mayor , Ben Houchen . voice in this place can be hugely negative and can roll over to become hugely destructive when thing be say in the way they be say by the hon . member — or , indeed , when they be not say . I just do not get Labour ' s position on business . netpark in my constituency be fantastic ; I have mention it more time than my predecessor do in the previous 12 year . do the Minister think that Labour actually understand business , give that the Member responsible for this debate be on the shortlist to be the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee ? I be grateful to my hon . friend — another example of speak up for the north - east . he ask a hugely important question about the importance of business and private enterprise to our success and wealth creation in this country . it be vital that we support business in order to make the wealth that allow we to support the public service we all need . the transformative opportunity of thing like Teesworks will ensure that the north - east have those public service and the taxpayer revenue need to support they in the come year and decade . the report be publish in November ' 23 — publish in nearly February ' 24 . can the Minister explain the delay ? I must say , there be suspicion that the report have be dilute . can the Minister say whether the report have be alter because of discussion or communication between the author and the government ? will he ensure — for the sake of transparency — that all communication between the author and the Department be publish ? if I have misheard the hon . Gentleman , I apologise in advance , but I be pretty sure that he just say that the report be publish in November 2023 . that be not the case . the report be receive by the Department last week , and we have publish it within a week of receipt . I wish to inform you that in line with the convention of the House , Madam Deputy Speaker , I inform the hon . member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) that I would be raise this matter , and we have quite an interesting exchange of text message — but suffice it to say I wish he a speedy recovery . I have to say , however , that the hon . Gentleman do have previous form on this issue . first , he ignore scientific evidence to try to prevent dredging in connection with the freeport development , and today we discover he have level vile , unfounded accusation of corruption and dishonesty at the Tees Valley Mayor . do the Minister agree that job and economic development be more important to the people of Teesside — include those who live in Middlesbrough , incidentally — than score political point on the basis of incorrect and unfounded allegation ? do he share my disappointment that rather than apologise on behalf of their colleague , the Opposition Front Benchers be double down on some of these allegation , which have now be blow completely out of the water by the report ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right : the report in front of we say explicitly that the accusation level at this project be not true . it be beholden on member in this place , when they get thing wrong , to say that that be the case ; and it be vital that we ensure that this project get go , keep go , accelerate even far and get the benefit for Tees Valley as soon as possible . the report say : " we do not see sufficient information provide to Board to allow they to provide effective challenge and undertake the level of due diligence expect of a commercial Board " ? do the Minister think that be acceptable ? can he expect the people of Teesside to have confidence that decision be take in this way be in their good interest or will deliver good value for money ? be it not time to get the National Audit Office to look at the matter ? the hon . Lady need to ensure that when she quote from that report , she do so with completeness . it be also the case that paragraph 4 . 8 of the report say : " we have sufficient evidence and consistency of view to form our conclusion as set out in the report . " the hon . Lady be in this place a few month ago say that the report would not be sufficient and refer to the pretence of an " independent " inquiry , which she be now quote from . Labour Members can not have it both way . they can not say that the inquiry do not work and then , when conclusion come out that they do not like , seek to disregard they . may I pass on my good wish for a speedy recovery to the good and hon . member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) , and commend his bravery in raise this issue ? clearly , the Minister do not like use of the c - word , but he will be tell we next that the personal protective equipment contract represent good value for money and that no dubious practice be involve in the awarding of those contract — stretch the truth thin enough and people start to see through it . I want to ask about value for money and scrap . apparently , there be 500 , 000 tonne of scrap metal on the site . sale have so far raise £ 90 million , with £ 45 million go straight to private developer Musgrave and Corney , without any risk or investment themselves . how on earth do that represent good value for money ? will the Minister or the Secretary of State instruct the National Audit Office to begin a full value for money investigation into the going - on at the Teesworks site ? the hon . Gentleman , again , be infer continued corruption . this report say — I do not ! the hon . Gentleman say " the c - word " . that be infer corruption , which have be absolutely comprehensively disproven in this report . the hon . Gentleman then go on to talk about value for money and the financial position , which be important . it be vital we put on record that the liability of this site — a massive site , which have liability in the hundred of million of pound , if not more , and be cost the good part of £ 20 million a year just to keep in its dirty state prior to any clean - up — be fall on the taxpayer in the main . the only reason these change and the joint venture have be bring forward be to transform the area for the good of the area in the long term . I note , once again , what happen when Labour member do not like a report that they call for — when it do not have the conclusion that they ask for and do not get to the place they want it to . what do they do ? they just call for another one . I be glad to hear that nothing illegal have happen , but sometimes in this world it be what be legal that really shock we . like I , the Minister probably remember that when the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities come before the Business and Trade Committee , he say that this freeport be a flagship for the policy . yet paragraph 1 . 7 of the report conclude : " a number of decision take by the body involve do not meet the standard expect when manage public fund . " the firm be allow to buy 100 acre of land at £ 1 an acre ; it be give right to sell scrap metal of £ 50 million ; it then go on to sell the lease it have for , I think , about £ 93 million ; and it have book £ 124 million of profit in the course of two year . surely there be lesson to be draw about how we absolutely maximise value for money in what be still a novel and important policy . it be for that reason that it would benefit all of we in this House if the NAO be allow to get to the bottom of the question of how we ensure that profit like these be not just extract from the taxpayer . the right hon . Gentleman have clearly read some of the report . I just want to draw his attention to some other element of it . paragraph 12 . 7 state : " the project be describe as the large regeneration project undertake in the UK cover thousand of acre of land . the project be complex and the JV between the public and private sector bring the inevitable cultural tension between the desire to move at pace unencumbered by bureaucracy as oppose to the expectation of accountability and transparency " . the report itself say that there be a debate to be weigh up on that , but it also state in paragraph 6 . 14 , on the very point about the involvement of business and regeneration , that there be " no obvious viable commercial " proposition for regenerate part of the land , and that the joint venture " be critical to be able to reach agreement with the Thai Banks " to start it in the first place . it be necessary , it have be do , and it will be transformative for the people of Tees Valley . the Minister talk about this be a complex project , but I be not quite sure exactly how complex it be . as I see it , Teesworks report a turnover of £ 143 million , on which it make a £ 50 million profit — a 35 % return . the only similar return I have see recently be Baroness Mone ' s , for her personal protective equipment . give the scale of what I think be a scandal and many view as a scandal , the public expect the NAO to undertake an independent report . I admire the Minister ' s conviction , but will he not support an independent NAO report to corroborate and validate his own ? the hon . Gentleman appear to be question whether the site be complex . these be not my word , but the word of the review , which many of his colleague have use , often out of context in the past half an hour , to throw accusation around the place . he stand up once before , on 7 June 2023 , to indicate that he think the project be " a scam " . he be not choose his word carefully then and he be not choose his word carefully now . he should consider whether he want to withdraw any of they . I be choose my word carefully . for past similar project we have have NAO investigation after the event . many of we have be disappoint by our own decision - make process of not produce report soon enough . the issue here be that there be potential allegation of excess profit , so would it not be well to have the NAO vet the project with regard to excess profit at this stage , rather than run the risk of try to learn lesson after the event ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for bring that up . I repeat that we have just have an independent inquiry — an independent inquiry which go through a process that the Labour party , when last in government , set up . if the Labour party be so desperate to have an independent inquiry into the Tees Valley after one have already be complete , I would love to hear from they where their call be for independent inquiry into Birmingham , Croydon , Slough and Liverpool , all area where mistake have be make by Labour administration but which they do not want to talk about . the report into the Teesworks joint venture highlight gap in the oversight and accountability of mayoral development corporation and such joint venture . give that the mechanism of mayoral development corporation be be roll out across England , will the Minister say what thought he and his Department have give to great scrutiny and probity not just of the work of metro mayor , but in particular of the work of mayoral development corporation ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question . mayor and mayoral development corporation have the potential to be transformative for their area , and both Conservative and Labour mayor have clearly make significant progress on that over the past decade or so . as I say in my opening remark , we will carefully consider the recommendation that have be bring forward for the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , but it be absolutely important to remember — I will say it once more for the avoidance of doubt — that the charge be corruption and illegality and that have be prove to be incorrect . the report state that it be incorrect , and it be important that that be on the record and repeat again and again and again . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . parliamentary privilege be one of the most important and sensitive right that we in this House exercise , and it be one that we need to do so with the utmost care . the hon . member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) have , as we have hear during the course of this afternoon ' s statement , make allegation of " industrial - scale corruption " . they be in Hansard on 20 April 2023 . these be allegation that he take great care not to repeat outside this House , because he know full well that that would expose he to legal action . what process exist , now that the report have comprehensively establish that the allegation be untrue , to require the hon . member to return to this House and correct the record ? I believe it fundamentally undermine the entire principle of parliamentary privilege if the word we use in this House , under that ancient right , can be use lightly , or indeed maliciously , for political end . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . parliamentary privilege be exactly what it say on the can : it be a privilege that must be use wisely , not recklessly or for political mean . will Mr Speaker review the use of parliamentary privilege in this case , where there could be , I suspect , a degree of political motivation to make allegation which , as my right hon . Friend say , be not repeat outside the House ? what further guidance might colleague be give in light of this situation ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for their point of order . first of all , I should say that the Chair be not responsible for what member say in the Chamber , or whether they choose to correct it , unless a speech be against the rule of the House . we do not accuse other of malicious remark . I think the good thing I can do be remind member of what Mr Speaker say at the beginning of this Session , which I feel will answer the point they have raise . he say : " the House assert its privilege of freedom of speech … it be there to ensure that our constituent can be represent by we without fear or favour . it be an obligation upon we all to exercise that privilege with responsibility … the Speaker do not have the power to police the accuracy of Members ' contribution , include those of Ministers . it be therefore incumbent on member to be accurate in what they say in this House , but if a member be inaccurate by mistake , they should correct that mistake as soon as possible . " — [ Official Report , 7 November 2023 ; Vol . 740 , c . 2 . ] that be what Mr Speaker say early in the Session about this very issue . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to ask you to confirm that member be still entitle to speak out on matter that they believe be correct . be it in order for Conservative Members to continue to raise issue about an individual member when they know that they be not here and be not capable of attend because of illness ? to the first point , I think what I say clarify the position . I think I make it clear at the beginning of the statement that I would hope that member who refer to another hon . Member would apprise they of the fact that they be go to do so . I notice that Sir Robert Goodwill make a point of say that . I assume that other have do so , too . obviously , if an hon . member can not be here , it do not mean that they can never be refer to , as long as they have be give adequate notice . I hope that that be helpful . Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill [ Lords ] second reading [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee on 21 November 2023 , on UK trade policy : food and agriculture , HC 162 . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . this government be proud to champion free trade at every opportunity . we recognise the power and potential of free and fair trade to ease the cost of living , low price and extend consumer choice , all of which drive growth across all four nation of our United Kingdom . as exemplify by the free trade agreement that we recently bring into force with Australia and New Zealand , it be UK business and UK consumer who benefit when burdensome red tape be cut , great market access be secure , and trade flow more freely . the UK ' s accession to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership will help we to realise these benefit with 11 country span the Americas and Asia . as member will know , this partnership cover a vast area of the globe — 500 million people — which already account for well over £ 100 billion - worth in UK trade . our accession will boost this flow of good and service even far , leave more than 99 % of UK product eligible for zero tariff . this matter , because we sell more to CPTPP country than we do to France and Italy combine . as we join , the partnership will have a combined gdp of roughly £ 12 trillion in 2022 figure , equivalent to nearly 15 % of the world ' s total . it will also provide a gateway to the wide Indo - Pacific region , which be set to account for the majority of global economic growth by 2050 . do my right hon . friend agree that our leave the European Union have make it possible to secure these deep economic and diplomatic tie with some of the fast grow economy in the world , and that it be only because of the decision make by this government that we be now get on with that job ? my right hon . friend be correct . we would not have be able to sign this agreement have we not leave the European Union , but we be now able to enjoy the benefit of this free trade agreement as well as the one that we have with the European Union . many of the figure that be sometimes cite about the future size and scope of the Indo - Pacific market include the size and growth of China . have the Secretary of State reflect far on the evidence that she give to the Select Committee last week , and can she tell the House whether , if China decide to try to join the CPTPP and meet the technical standard , the UK will block that or welcome it ? the right hon . Gentleman know what I say to the Committee . it be important to stress the principle that these be not decision that the UK make in isolation , but he will hear more about the argument relate to accession later in my speech . one of the major benefit of our accession be the fact that for the first time we will have a trade deal with Malaysia and Brunei — economy worth over £ 340 billion in GDP . what do that mean for british business ? it mean , for example , that tariff on British - make car export to Malaysia will be cut from 30 % to zero , and that our whisky exporter will see tariff cut from 80 % to zero , a move that have be widely welcome by member of the Scotch Whisky Association . the Secretary of State have speak about the size of this deal , and she have mention the major player in our market , the automotive and whisky industry , which be of course very big exporter . will she say a little about the opportunity that may exist for small and medium - sized enterprise , and the work that be be do to open up those opportunity to they ? there will be a multiplicity of benefit for small business — for instance , the tariff to which I have refer — but the agreement also contain a chapter that be specifically intend to help sme to take advantage of it . the Secretary of State mention car export to Malaysia . that , of course , will not make up for the million of pound that we now risk lose because of the suspension of the deal with Canada for the automotive industry . the Bill will do nothing to tackle that , because it be base on the accumulation of EU content that we need . will the Secretary of State tell we what on earth she will do to fight for british car maker , give that we shall now have the bad of all world , and we be not even part of a " Canada - style deal " with Canada ? first , Canada be part of the CPTPP . secondly , the rule of origin , to which the hon . Lady be refer , have still not be fully decide ; that will come in March . we be work with our counterpart in Canada . I think the hon . Lady be confuse the discussion on rule of origin with discussion on cheese , which be an entirely different issue . UK company will enjoy great market access in some of the nine country with which we already have bilateral agreement . let we take Mexico . under our current bilateral agreement , chocolate producer must pay a tariff of about 25 % , but on accession that will drop to zero . we also say at the outset of our negotiation that we would like our business to benefit from the key trade quota that this agreement offer . I be pleased to tell the House that we have secure access to those quota as part of our negotiation . that mean , among other thing , that we have secure well access for UK dairy producer sell to Canada , Japan and Mexico , and it probably explain why Minette Batters , the president of the National Farmers Union , have say that the agreement could provide " good opportunity to get more fantastic british food on plate overseas . " I be sure that all member here today would warmly welcome such an outcome . I commend the Secretary of State and the Government for the stance that they have take with our friend and ally in Canada , namely that the UK will not permit the import of hormone - treat beef . it be important that we can be a beacon to the rest of the world in that regard . can the Secretary of State reaffirm to the House and the country that we will stand firm in continue to prohibit the import of not only hormone - treat beef , but ractopamine - treat pork and chlorine - wash poultry ? it be vital that we uphold animal health and welfare standard , as well as help to protect public health . I be happy to confirm that that be the case . we be now in a position to make our own decision on what we do with trade agreement . we have say that we will never compromise on animal welfare or environmental standard , and we continue to regulate . the difference between this deal and the kind of deal that we have previously with the EU be that we do not then have complete freedom to regulate . another notable benefit concern rule of origin . join this partnership will mean that content from any CPTPP country can be count as qualify when good be export within the trading bloc , and that have the potential to benefit our innovative British - base manufacturer , include our car industry . in the automotive sector we have an exceptionally competitive global market , especially as we make the transition to electric vehicle . critical mineral be need for their production , and those be inevitably difficult to source in a global supply chain . it be therefore essential to the success of our industry that more country recognise where a component be make and accept it as part of one supply chain . for example , say one of our big automotive manufacturer in the west midland ship a part to Mexico for additional assembly , and that part be then send on to another CPTPP country , such as Japan , for final manufacturing . post accession , the part make in the west midland will meet the agreement ' s rule of origin . that be a real incentive for CPTPP country to purchase more british - design , British - make product , and it be part of the reason why our future accession to this partnership have be so warmly welcome by the sector . Mike Hawes , chief executive officer of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders , have say that the agreement make " eminent sense " and have the potential to deliver opportunity for the automotive industry . it be good to hear from Mike Hawes and to learn what he think , but can the Secretary of State give the House some indication of what contribution the CPTPP will make to our gdp ? accord to the model and estimate , it will be £ 2 billion a year , but it all depend on which country choose to accede and how many business in the UK choose to take advantage of the agreement . a free trade agreement utilisation programme will therefore be critical to our gain the great possible benefit from the CPTPP . there be a great deal of argument about where the opportunity for UK exporter be . do my right hon . friend agree with the prediction that the 10 nation of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations will create a big trading bloc and a big economic unit than the European Union by 2050 , and do she agree that the CPTPP offer the opportunity for country such as the Kingdom of Thailand , which be not a member , to join in the future ? surely the CPTPP be not about what it be now , but what it will be in the future . my hon . friend be absolutely right . this deal be think about the future . of course we have a close trading relationship with the European Union , but the fact be that , as a share of global growth , Europe be shrink and other part of the world be grow . this be our opportunity to get in early and help shape the rule for this trading bloc . the Business Secretary be make a powerful case on why accession to the CPTPP will be transformative for our country in so many way . she allude to the importance of business with Malaysia . this be not just about trade ; it be also about investment . the importance of malaysian investment over here be symbolise by Brabazon on the edge of Bristol , and by Battersea power station . do she agree that all those investment will be much more secure under the umbrella of the first ever trade and investment agreement with Malaysia ? I agree with that statement . I would just like to highlight the significant contribution that our trade envoy , include my hon . friend the Members for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) , and for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) , be make to our debate on trade . they be get out there , bring business to the United Kingdom , sell all that be great about our country , and make a valuable contribution to trade policy in the UK , and I want to take this opportunity to thank they for all the work they be do , travel around the world and bang the drum for british trade . before the Secretary of State move off the subject of car , I want to make an intervention about our trade with Canada , which involve more than £ 745 million - worth of export . we currently benefit from tariff - free trade because of the extended accumulation of origin rule . that tariff break will end at the end of March , and because talk have break down , we face a situation where our car export be about to be hit by tariff . can she tell the House a bit more about how she plan to avoid a tariff war hit UK car export at the end of March ? this be a good opportunity for I to state explicitly that the talk have not break down . we be have multiple discussion with Canada on cheese , in which we have not come to an agreement . however , the quota that we have under CPTPP with Canada be 16 . 5 kilotonne , which be more than the 2 kilotonne we be sell to Canada at the moment , so we be not particularly concerned about that , although it be disappointing . we have an ongoing rule of origin discussion , and we have an FTA discussion , which I have pause , for reason that the right hon . Gentleman will know — indicate dissent . well , he should know they , because I believe I refer to they in the Select Committee ; I hope he be listen . the point I be make to the Chair of the Select Committee be that trade be dynamic . on some issue that we be negotiate and discuss with our partner , we have difference of opinion ; and other be go swimmingly . this be not a reason for we to cast aspersion on our trade relationship with the country in question . join this partnership will deliver for our manufacturer , but crucially it will also deliver for our globally renowned service sector . the UK be already the world ' s second large exporter of service , behind only the US , and service export be at record level . CPTPP , with its modern and ambitious rule on service and digital trade , play to the UK ' s strength , give that almost 80 % of our economy be service - base . it will reduce market access barrier , such as datum localisation requirement ; british business will not have to set up costly server or data centre in each member country , and that will save they significant time , money and other resource . this agreement will help flagship british business such as Standard Chartered and BT to gain smoother access to market in Singapore , Vietnam and Malaysia , strengthen our trade with those nation for year to come . we also have a ratchet mechanism for the first time with Malaysia , Chile , Mexico , Peru , Singapore , Brunei and Vietnam , mean that if those country relax rule for a particular service , restriction can not then be reintroduce in future . that be another clear example of how this agreement will unlock smooth , simple trade . the director general of the Institute of Export and International Trade , Marco Forgione , have rightly say : " this be all good news for UK business , give they great access to one of the fast grow region in the world " . the issue be not just the benefit that join this partnership will bring over the short term . this be a grow agreement , design to expand and bring in more market and more opportunity for UK business in the long run . as the first accede country , we will be ideally place to take advantage of that future growth . I welcome our accession to CPTPP , which I think will be of great national benefit , but understandably member across the House will look to business in their constituency . the Secretary of State be well aware that many business in my constituency in the Humber region be focus on the energy sector , particularly renewable energy . do she see any great advantage for they ? there be multiple advantage that will accrue to my hon . friend ' s constituency . I do not specifically have figure for the energy sector , but I do have good news relate to Yorkshire and the Humber : 465 business be already export to Malaysia from Yorkshire and the Humber , and CPTPP will help to boost that region ' s economy by around £ 210 million in the long run . in 2022 , Yorkshire and the Humber export £ 1 . 3 billion - worth of good to CPTPP . within five year , tariff of up to 30 % will be eliminate on UK export of machinery to Malaysia , cut cost for business in Yorkshire and the Humber . we will reduce tariff and non - tariff barrier , which could mean many more company — such as the jukebox manufacturer Sound Leisure , which already export to five CPTPP country — be able to enter more dynamic market . the Chair of the Select Committee , the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , raise question about China , and I promise to address they . on China ' s application to accede to the agreement , which I know many hon . member be interested in , let I first say that there be six economy with application to join the group — China , Taiwan , Ecuador , Costa Rica , Uruguay and Ukraine — and more may apply . member have not yet make any decision on which economy will accede in future . every applicant must fulfil three essential criterion , call the Auckland principle , to join the group . first , they must be able to meet the high standard of the agreement . secondly , they must have a track record of compliance with exist trade commitment . thirdly , and crucially , they must command a consensus of the whole group . these be strong criterion , and they make it clear that work as a bloc be vital . the purpose of this partnership be to be a grow trade bloc , and we share that ambition . we want this agreement to grow , but our accession have set a clear precedent for those that follow . the robust process that the UK have be through have only reinforce the high standard that the partnership seek to promote , and it have prove that the bar be not easy to meet . do that not prove that by be positive and seek to engage with partner around the world , we can shape this trade area in line with our geostrategic and trade interest ? yes , it absolutely do . that be one of the way that we be able to increase UK influence across the world , not just in Europe or near neighbouring country . my right hon . friend be absolutely right on that . the Secretary of State talk about free and fair trade and about high standard , but there be nothing on labour right in this CPTPP deal . be that because she do not care about labour right ? do she not think it matter whether UK business and worker have to compete with those produce product and service in circumstance where there be no trade union right and no health and safety right , for example ? be it because she do not care about labour right , or because she be unable to negotiate anything ? I think the hon . Lady might be confuse the content of the Bill with the text of the agreement . the text of the agreement be on gov . uk , and she will find a chapter there that cover labour right . I turn briefly to the Bill . it be technical in nature , but in enable we to comply with the provision of the deal , it be crucial to unlock the benefit I have describe . first , the Bill will ensure that the UK ' s domestic procurement regime be compliant with the partnership ' s rule , and it will give effect to the UK ' s market access commitment to CPTPP supplier . this small change will deliver big benefit for british business , allow they to compete for contract in Canada , Japan and Peru that go beyond our exist agreement . it will also mark the UK ' s first ever trade agreement with Malaysia and Brunei that contain Government procurement provision , and will create entirely new access opportunity for UK business . the Bill will also allow conformity assessment body establish in party ’ territory to apply for approval in the UK . this will mirror the treatment that UK conformity assessment body will receive from CPTPP party , which would reduce cost for UK business . the Bill will amend domestic law so that , in relation to agrifood only , an application to register a geographical indicator can be oppose on the ground that it be likely to cause confusion with a pre - exist trademark or application for a trademark . the Bill will also introduce the ability to cancel a register agrifood gi on the ground that , at the time the GI be apply for , it be likely to cause confusion with a pre - exist trademark or application for a trademark , or because it be a generic term . finally , the Bill bring our approach to copyright in line with the CPTPP by amend the basis on which foreign performer , such as musician , can qualify for right in the UK . in sum , the implementation of the Bill be essential for the UK to meet its obligation upon accession to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership . the agreement offer significant benefit to UK business and consumer , by lower tariff , drive up trade and give we access to the market that will be front and centre of the global economy for the next quarter century . it be right that we seize the many opportunity that the partnership will bring , which be why I commend this Bill to the House . we support accession to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership . we have concern about the Bill and will be seek additional safeguard , but we will not seek to divide the House this evening . as my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , have say , the Bill be overshadow by the apparent collapse of bilateral FTA negotiation with Canada , one of CPTPP ' s most important member . there have be no statement to the House , and I read the transcript of the Secretary of State ' s evidence to the Business and Trade Committee and see no reference to the collapse of those negotiation . as I understand it , there have not even be a write statement to the House . this be one further sign of the Government ' s cavalier approach to trade . I thank my hon . friend for give way , because this really matter . with £ 750 million - worth of british car export at stake , the Canadian Trade Minister , Mary Ng , have say on the record that she be " disappointed " the talk have fall apart . the Ministers shout " fake news " need to be clear and honest with the british worker whose job be at stake . do my hon . friend agree that we need some honesty from the Government ? if they think the talk have not fall apart , can they tell we when they will start again ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s call for clarity from the Secretary of State , because the collapse of these talk leave our exporter to Canada bad off than when we be in Europe . there have be no deal with the US , no deal by Diwali with India , no courage to do a veterinary agreement with the EU , and now this failure by Ministers . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s enthusiasm for the Canada agreement , but can he explain why , on 8 February 2017 , he vote against the UK do a deal with Canada in the first place ? the right hon . Gentleman have some gall ask that question , bear in mind that , during parliamentary consideration of the Trade Act 2021 , he promise to negotiate a well agreement than the EU have . now we find ourselves have bad term of trade with Canada than we have when we be in the EU . it be strike , too , that one issue that bedevil those discussion on the EU - Canada deal be now support by Conservative Members . the Secretary of State specifically seek to avoid investor - state dispute settlement provision in the bilateral deal with Canada that have now collapse . we raise those concern at the time . this Bill and our accession to CPTPP will not make up for the ten of million of pound of extra cost that manufacturer and the car industry will face when export to Canada due to the loss of EU cumulation right and the high tariff that will result from April . this Bill will also not be much help for dairy business that export to Canada . cheese exporter be now face tariff of 245 % , because Ministers be too late to try to stop the loss of a vital quota for tariff rate reduction . minister have to be wake up to this issue by question from the Opposition . I be a guest on the Business and Trade Committee last week , and I specifically raise the issue of cheese . if the hon . Gentleman have be pay attention , he would have hear that our tariff rate quota do not exceed the amount we previously export . cheese producer , particularly those in Wensleydale , can therefore sleep well at night . I do not know what happen in Wensleydale , but I have see the comment and worry of other cheese exporter . during that Select Committee hearing , the right hon . Gentleman share the concern of many Opposition Members about isds provision . the Secretary of State say that negotiation on the loss of EU cumulation right for our export of car and other manufacture good have not come to an end , but it be difficult to see how she pull the plug on bilateral discussion with Canada on a new FTA will help to secure those cumulation right . a trade deal should work for all part of the country , include farmer , but evidence to the Select Committee make it clear that accession to CPTPP will mean further loss to the agriculture sector and the semi - process agricultural food sector . minister have be send signal for some time that they be willing to ignore farmer . the deal with Europe put up huge barrier to trade for british farmer . on the deal with Australia , one of Britain ' s own negotiating team say that we " give away far too much for far too little " . — [ Official Report , 14 November 2022 ; Vol . 722 , c . 424 . ] now , we have further loss through CPTPP . the hon . Gentleman be be extremely selective about the evidence give to the Business and Trade Committee last week . when the Trade and Agriculture Commission — the statutory body that review the trade deal we sign — come before we , it say that membership of CPTPP will have no overall impact on UK farming . would the hon . gentleman like to correct the record ? as the hon . Gentleman know , other evidence be give to the Select Committee that underline the likely loss to farmer and the agriculture sector in general . I will be happy to send he the note from that Select Committee . there be question about the intellectual property section of the Bill . there be wide concern that Britain have be force to be a rule - taker on the use of secret court , that there be poor environmental and labour right provision and , crucially , that minister have no plan to help british business capitalise on this deal . give the Government ' s woeful performance on economic growth , the recent huge increase in barrier to trade and the cut in support for exporter , we be pleased about any measure that help our exporter even a fraction . the Secretary of State do not own up to it but , for the foreseeable future , this trade deal will have , at good , a minor impact on our term of trade . there be trade benefit to membership , notably in the rule of origin provision and in trade with Malaysia and Brunei , and there be long - term potential if CPTPP become a deep or more extensive trade bloc . in geopolitical term , the close tie with ally in the Indo - Pacific that CPTPP usher in be welcome in these increasingly uncertain time . unfortunately , rational debate about these opportunity and trade - off have be hamper by some of the more extravagant and exaggerated claim make by Conservative Members for the benefit of CPTPP membership . it be set to offer " unparalleled opportunity " for the UK . it be go to be a " glitter post - Brexit prize " . the Secretary of State have even do her own bit for such boosterism , with her Department claim last year that all that be need be for the US and half the rest of the world to join , and then there would be an extra £ 21 billion for the UK . I enjoy " Wonka " , but I do not expect to find that level of fantasy prepare for this debate . accord to the Government ' s own figure , this trade treaty be only ever go to deliver a 0 . 08 % increase in economic growth over 10 year . it be nice to have , particularly give the mess that the Government be make of the economy , but now even the limited trade benefit they promise we have be cut in half . the hon . Gentleman reference my Department ' s trade figure . these be model forecast base on old figure that do not count the dynamic effect of trade agreement . they be completely out of date . they be do well before the agreement have even be negotiate , so they should not be use as a basis for decide how this agreement will do . one set of figure the Secretary of State ' s Department definitely do not put together be those that the Office for Budget Responsibility produce . it now expect only a 0 . 04 % increase in our economic growth , after a decade , from join CPTPP . as we already have free trade agreement in place with nine of the other 11 CPTPP member , formally join CPTPP feel rather thin compensation for Ministers ' many other failure on trade . in the light of the news that the figure that have be table by the Department be not accurate — I can barely believe it — would my hon . friend , like I , have expect there to be a new impact assessment alongside the Bill , with the late departmental assessment set out clearly therein ? it would have be an excellent idea if the Secretary of State have publish those . perhaps she might be willing to publish they at the same time as give we a statement about what exactly be go on in the negotiation with Canada . we will have to use the review of CPTPP in 2026 to try to increase more markedly the benefit of membership for british job , british consumer and growth . interestingly , the shadow Minister be try to have his cake and eat it . he be say that the Government have make extravagant claim for the importance of CPTPP , while recognise that it will have a useful , modest role . as for the statistic that the Department might produce , do he agree that it would be difficult for the Department to project accurately what might happen over the next 10 year , because a cluster of nation , at least three of they within the Association of Southeast Asian Nations , might well apply to join , but we can not speculate on that in advance ? surely he would agree that the potential of this opportunity represent a decent - sized prize for the UK . all I say to the hon . Gentleman be that I have recognise that there be benefit to accession , which be why we be not seek to divide the House tonight , and that I will come on to the issue of potential new country join CPTPP in a bit . the temptation for Ministers to exaggerate the significance of what this Bill usher in — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? why not ? give that the hon . Gentleman recognise that there be opportunity from this deal and that , thank to the success of our continuity agreement programme , we have trade deal with many country there already , do he not accept that the diagonal cumulation that be part of CPTPP be a huge boost to british business , in term of supply chain ? as I think the right hon . Gentleman may have hear — perhaps he be not listen — I do acknowledge that one of the benefit that will come from CPTPP accession be well rule of origin . however , I gently say to he that we should not exaggerate the benefit of those , because the benefit be not likely to be that huge . they be important to have , of course , give the economic mess he and other former Ministers help to create , but those benefit be , none the less , modest . as I say , the temptation for Ministers to exaggerate the significance of what this Bill usher in be understandable , give that over the past 10 year Britain have have the bad export record of any member of the G7 apart from Japan . that partly explain why the british people have low living standard now than they do when Labour leave office . it be one reason why the british people have become , on average , £ 10 , 000 bad off since 2010 and it be key to why the UK be forecast to have the low growth in the G7 this year . minister have publish no trade strategy and provide no clarity about how the Bill fit in with wide trade ambition . they have axe support for business to get to trade show and cut funding for business group to lead trade mission . there be little obvious planning to help business use the limited extra opportunity open up through this Bill and other trade deal . sensible policy to improve trade with Europe and cut red tape have be veto . sadly , it be therefore not surprising that the independent OBR now expect our trade to grow by just 0 . 1 % this year and in the next two year — that be a shameful record . when , in a former life , I serve on the Select Committee on International Trade , one thing we talk about be give Parliament great ability to scrutinise trade deal before they be validate . do my hon . friend think that we , in this place , should have more opportunity to scrutinise these deal ? as he be describe it , what be be present today be negligible in its contribution to UK growth , as have be explain . I share my hon . friend ' s opinion . he air it during consideration of the Trade Bill a couple of year ago and I hope he might be willing to air it in this Bill ' s Committee . there be little sign either of a plan to ensure that this Bill help CPTPP accession boost trade in the nation and region of the UK . the Resolution Foundation publish analysis last week show that , despite all the promise of level up , more than 50 % of service export be concentrate in just one region of the UK . minister have never be interested in tackle those huge imbalance . Labour Members all remember the broken promise on trade : the " oven ready " Brexit deal ; level up through trade ; and 80 % of the world be cover by new trade agreement . one by one , each of those promise that the conservative party make to the british people have be break . no one outside conservative circle will be surprised that this Bill be not go to lead to a huge boost to economic growth any time soon . the negotiation to join CPTPP be lead by the same people who give australian farmer everything they want , by the same Ministers who boast about a trade deal with Japan that will help their exporter four time more than our and which have be champion by the very same Ministers who negotiate a trade treaty with Europe that have hike up trade barrier , increase the cost of food and generate huge bureaucracy for business . on the arrangement for scrutiny of this Bill , one would have hope that Ministers would have learn lesson from previous trade Bills this House have consider , and that scrutiny arrangement before and after negotiation might have improve . we have , at least , not have the spectacle of Trade Ministers at war for a little while or of their fail to turn up to a Select Committee to answer basic question about trade agreement . I appreciate that Lord Frost be not quite so popular any long , but when even he can lament , when debate this very Bill in the other place , that scrutiny of trade agreement be well when we be in the European Union , there be clearly some way to go . that be all the more the case because Ministers appear to be use this Bill to solve an apparent problem with intellectual property treaty rule , which may or may not be link to CPTPP — the Minister in the Lords do not seem too clear on that ; a mere two week ago , and only after pressure in the other place , Ministers rush out a consultation document on this provision of the Bill , which be contain in clause 5 and potentially give american and other overseas business huge sum that would otherwise have help emerge british artistic talent . that consultation will not be finish until 11 March , and there be absolutely no clue as to when Ministers might have finish consider the response and deign to let we all have their thought on the way forward . during bilateral trade negotiation , the Government be widely accuse of give in to the demand of australian negotiator far too easily , create dangerous precedent for those want to get access to our agricultural market through other trade deal . it appear that minister be in danger of do something similar with the copyright provision in this Bill : give away , when there appear to be no reason to do so , extra right to receive payment to foreign performer — for example , those in America , which be cite in the consultation document and be not currently a member of CPTPP . that would reduce the earning of our artist and our business here , which could hold back the development of the next generation of british musician and artist . industry figure argue that there be nothing in CPTPP to justify the need to give foreign right holder and performer payment where they do not currently receive they . if minister think those industry voice be wrong , I look forward to the Minister for Trade Policy spelling out , when he wind up , what specifically in CPTPP require the change . nothing in the trade deal with Australia or Japan , despite both of they be CPTPP member , require such a legal change then , so why do we need this now ? it look like Ministers be try to sneak through change to rule that be , at good , only loosely relate to CPTPP by use this legislation instead of a separate and proper process and debate about why such change be need . in wind up the debate , will the Minister explain to the House why change to the way in which foreign record label and recording artist qualify for payment right — change which , let we be clear , could cost british artist more than £ 100 million over the next decade , accord to the Government ' s own figure — be necessary now ? in Committee , we will also want to explore why Ministers have not seek exemption to the ISDS provision in the cptpp as our ally in Australia and New Zealand have do , and as Canada do with the US during the United States - Mexico - Canada agreement negotiation . it be all the more surprising as Ministers be specifically try to avoid ISDS provision in the now collapse UK - Canada FTA negotiation . there have be a significant increase in legal dispute use isds provision , and a series of case have have a chilling impact on a range of progressive public policy on environmental issue , labour standard and public service we be yet to hear a convincing explanation from Ministers as to why ISDS be still need — a point that the hon . member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) reference in relation to the Select Committee meeting next week . I may have misheard but do the hon . Gentleman just say that the Australia deal be a bad deal for farmer and that it be increase the cost of food ? australian wine be now certainly cheap on our shelf , and our big food or drink export be Scotch whisky , which always benefit from free trade deal . I remember the comment make by the National Farmers Union about the Australia deal , so the right hon . Gentleman may want to look back at those before he rush to make such an intervention again . in Committee , we will also explore the further threat to Britain ' s steel industry from the possibility of cheap import of iron and steel from Vietnam , which may actually be produce in China . there have be grow debate about China ' s interest in accede to the CPTPP and its record on human right . as my noble Friend Lord Collins point out , there be no meaningful , enforceable human right provision in the treaty . nothing in law at the moment require Ministers to allow debate in the House if there be agreement among CPTPP member to support China ' s — or any other country ' s — accession to the CPTPP . will Ministers set out how they will ensure transparency over their consideration of new country application once we be member of the cptpp ? there continue to be a series of concern about how environmental issue , such as deforestation , climate change and pesticide use be deal with through the cptpp . the Government ' s record do not encourage confidence that those issue be close to the forefront of Ministers ' mind during negotiation . my hon . friend make an excellent point . do he agree that there be a huge amount of public concern about the way that the Government have be manage environmental issue in their trade negotiation — both in the Australia deal and this one ? my hon . friend be right and we hope to pursue those issue in Committee . he would be very welcome to join we in so do . there be benefit to join the cptpp and we support do so , but there be real concern as to whether Ministers have get we the good deal possible , which we will revisit in Committee . I would say that it be pleasure to follow the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , but he be so pessimistic and full of doom and gloom that he make I think that he be the Goldilocks of international trade . we be always in the same place when we debate these issue with Labour Members , because we can not sign trade agreement quick enough for they or perhaps we take too long . in fact , we sign trade agreement when they be good for our business , our producer and consumer — that be exactly where we must be . the hon . Gentleman talk about membership of the CPTPP and say that there be no parameter to stop new member , but in her opening remark the Secretary of State make the point about the Auckland principle and the fact that there have to be a consensual approach to new membership . the opposition criticise our record on international trade and the agreement we have sign , discount the fact that we have : an agreement with Australia and New Zealand ; three memorandum of understanding with american state ; 75 roll - over deal ; discussion under way with the Gulf Co - operation Council , Israel and India ; and now accession to the CPTPP , if we pass the Bill . the purpose of the Bill be to change our legislative programme to ensure that ratification can take place ; that be why we be here and what we be debate . I be delighted to be a member of the Business and Trade Committee . I welcome that the CPTPP be our accession to the fast grow region in the world , and that it will give huge geopolitical value to the UK and what we do with our friend and ally around the world . if anyone want something to send they to sleep , they can read my report , " look East " , for the Centre for Policy Studies . we be join the lead comprehensive free trade agreement , with every forecast pointing to the value that this body will play not just in the next 10 year , but in the next five ; we have to recognise those benefit . as have be say , in nearly every case , forecast undervalue free trade agreement , not least because of the modelling but also because , as free trade agreement be sign and accession complete , business start to take advantage of the agreement and grow as a result . my hon . friend make a good point . do he agree that when a previous Committee — of which we be both member — look at free trade deal , it find that the very fact of do a trade deal create an interest that be not otherwise there ? it mean that everybody talk about the trade opportunity that present itself . I could not agree with my hon . friend more . that be exactly the reason that we have trade envoy — in his case , he go to Thailand to enhance the relationship between Thai and UK business . it be also for that exact reason that the first line of the gov . uk webpage on CPTPP say : " we will help business take advantage of CPTPP . please keep log on so you can see how we can help you to take advantage . " far from step back and not help business , we be on the front foot in ensure that we can support they . I want to make a couple of point about what I have learn , first on the International Trade Committee and now on the Business and Trade Committee . it be always important for the House to have a say , and to have a debate on the full term of our free trade agreement . under the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 , we have 21 sit day to be able to debate the cptpp . the Secretary of State appear before the Business and Trade Committee last week . I hope that we can have a debate , because it be important for all member of the House to be able to look at the many benefit that the CPTPP will bring they , and their constituent , producer and consumer , and for those benefit to be highlight on the Floor of the House . CRaG also provide for a voteable motion , which have not be use since its introduction ; and it would be useful to have vocal support for our trade agreement , not least to show our friend and ally , with whom we do these deal , that we be behind they . within the Bill , I note the change to the procurement legislative framework . I commend the fact that it be already build on the excellent work in the Procurement Act 2023 , which specifically help small business to take advantage of the agreement we have sign ; again , the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Harrow West , could have make reference to that legislation or to the Electronic Trade Documents Act 2023 — the list go on and I could go on to , if he would like I to . of course , there be also the value place on intellectual property — set a minimum standard of protection across patent , geographical indictor , copyright , trade secret , trademark and design , include enforcement mechanism . above all , there be a focus not only on how to remove tariff , but on how to remove non - tariff and technical barrier to trade . the creation of conformity assessment procedure also ensure that we can help business from every walk of life to take advantage of the CPTPP — this fast grow region . my hon . friend have make a number of absolutely correct statement about the benefit of the agreement . to bring it alive in the specific context of our first ever trade and investment agreement , with Malaysia : because we will be work closely with their ministry , we will see opportunity for joint marketing in way that we have not often see around the world . it be worth remember that our investment over there , which be considerable , generate dividend back to this country . that be as important as attract inward investment here , which , of course , give they dividend back there . do my hon . friend agree that the opportunity in the Bill be there for everyone to recognise ; that it be helpful that the Labour party finally agree that free trade agreement , and this particular agreement , be a positive step forward for the country ; and that we should all recognise the opportunity that come after the agreement , and mobilise our chamber of commerce and our small and medium - sized enterprise to take advantage of they ? I thank my hon . friend for allow I to get my breath back and for the point that he make . I hope SNP Members be listen , because they could make it a hat - trick and support their first international free trade agreement while they be at it . of course , my hon . friend be absolutely right : we must recognise both the export value and the import impact . we must also recognise , as be show clearly through the pandemic , that business that have international market be more resilient to shock and can take further advantage of the deal that we be put in front of they . the more that we can get trade deal in front of small business , encourage they to seek out new market , the more we can safeguard they for a long - term future . I have hear my hon . friend talk about good , but I want to hear more about service . we see this purely through the prism of good go backwards and forwards , but our great strength be service . where be the service opportunity in this deal ? as ever , my colleague on the Business and Trade Committee have steer I back on to the right path . of course there be enormous value within the legal and financial sector — the service economy — in which 80 % of our economy be base . we must make sure that we be take full advantage of the deal . we need to get those business out there , to look at where we can change international regulation , and to see that there be more mutual co - operation . my hon . friend be right and have be a strong advocate of those point over the past few month on the Select Committee . on service export , my hon . friend will know , as do many colleague on the Conservative Benches , that education be one of our major service export . we have five university operate in Malaysia . we have a number of school operate around south - east Asia and in all the other nation involve in the trans - Pacific partnership . all those will benefit from this agreement . do he see that , as perhaps other nation in ASEAN pick up the opportunity of TPP , there will be further education opportunity ? education be one of the jewel in our crown of export opportunity . when we look at what have be create by UK school in the far east , along with university that be now explore those route , we see that there be an enormous amount of ground to cover and opportunity for those business to take advantage of . we be look to access a region that be worth about £ 12 trillion , and which be close in on well over 50 % of world trade . this vibrant economic region offer we not just the opportunity , but the ability to create new industry and to be at the forefront of advanced manufacturing — of pharmaceutical , genomic , quantum and photonic . whatever we might think , we can take advantage of these deal . furthermore , the removal of tariff and technical boundary will only benefit those service , business and advanced manufacturing area . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech about the benefit of this accession agreement . we have talk about good , service , education , and science and technology , which be all part of Britain ' s global soft power . we will be able to export some of our technology , education and value , not least in food production and farming and in how we regard animal health . a major benefit of our join this partnership be to spread the good work that the UK do . I be delighted that my hon . friend have make that point and I thank he for all the work that he do on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . he be right to raise the fact that we have such high standard , and that by join organisation such as this , we will not only serve as an example to other , but show how it be possible to create productive and profitable market . I thank the hon . member for give way and appreciate that he feel very strongly about this issue . will he clarify this for those listen — that the animal welfare standard that we abide by as part of the European Union be not those we be go to see in Canada , Australia or New Zealand ? indeed , we be allow those good to be import tariff - free as part of deal such as this , but we be about to put a whacking great tariff on consignment and import safety check on food come in from Europe . do he recognise that we be send different message about the value of animal standard ? I refer the hon . Lady to my previous remark on the TAC report on CPTPP . she have make a point about Australia , and it be fair to give an answer on that . none the less , the point be that we be still safeguard ourselves against hormone - inject beef and chlorinate chicken . yes , there be variable standard around the world ; we have to recognise that not all trade deal be Christmas tree on which to hang bauble and everything else . we can lead by example . our standard be the high in the world , and there be nothing to say that they be not a key persuader for other country to follow suit in show how there can be successful market on that front . rise — I will give way , probably for the last time . I would like to follow on from the point about beef and meat from Australia . we import it for year and year when we be part of the European Union . this be not brand new ; we have be do it for a long , long time . that be exactly why we put thing such as the Trade and Agriculture Commission on to a statutory footing , so that it could report on these trade agreement . its opinion be fully weight with the Government response and come in during the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act process and allow we in this House to consider it . if the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) want to debate this point in a general debate on CPTPP , I would look forward to do it all over again . of course , the whole purpose of the process be to give we the chance to take full consideration of the agricultural community ' s view . I have go on for far too long , Mr Deputy Speaker — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] thank you very much ! [ hon . member : " More ! " ] I believe that that be the first time that anyone in the House have ever tell I to carry on , but I be very grateful for it none the less . we have huge opportunity in the UK to strike new trade agreement to encourage our economy to boom . it be strike that , in his opening remark , the shadow Minister on the Labour Front Bench do not recognise that , since 2010 , the UK ' s economy have outperform that of Portugal , Italy , Spain , Germany and France , to name but a few . this trade agreement signal not just an intent to sign more trade deal in the future , but an approach that we can take if we work together with business , financial service , legal service and all industry across this country to bring value to London and to all region of the United Kingdom . I look forward to see its ratification and to this Bill be pass unamended . in say that you have go on for far too long , you manage to unite both side of the House , Mr Mangnall , so congratulation . first , let I say that we on the SNP Benches be also not look to divide the House . I think that I might get the opportunity to pre - empt the jibe that be often make about how my party be against trade deal , but the hon . member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) get there first . I see that those on the Labour Front Bench also take a sideswipe with their rather nonsensical jibe . I freely admit that we have yet to find a deal sign by this government that we be happy to support . fundamentally — I say this again — we be in favour of good trade deal and we be not in favour of poor trade deal . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Totnes be very , very excitable . for the purpose of Hansard , he be ask I to name one , but the sad fact be that I can not name one that have be sign by this Government . try to help those on the Treasury Bench and Back Benchers understand the difference feel a bit like Father Ted try to explain to Father Dougal the difference between cow that be small and cow that be far away . in common with the shadow Minister , we be not say that there can not be some advantage of the CPTPP deal , but what we could not be clear about be that , take in their totality , all the trade deal sign to date — or even those that could have be sign have negotiation not fail to get off the starting block , or those that have hit the buffer in recent day — be a very poor substitute for the trade deal that we have leave behind . in the manner in which it choose to leave the European Union , the UK manage not only to create trade border with 27 other country , but , unfathomably , to create one with itself , when it create a trade border down the middle of the irish sea between Great Britain and Northern Ireland . in the cptpp , we have essentially swap the four freedom in Europe of good , capital , service and people , in a market of half a billion people with a gdp of over £ 15 trillion , which be right on our doorstep and which already take over 40 % of our export , with a much less deal , with a combined economy of almost half the size , on the opposite side of the world , which currently take only 8 % of our export . a great deal of growth would need to happen in that market — somewhat implausibly I have to say — even to come close to match what have be leave behind . the economic benefit of join the CPTPP be pretty small . I know the Government do not like these figure be repeat — which seem as good a reason as any to go on and repeat they — but the UK Government ' s own impact assessment indicate the long - run increase in GDP would be £ 2 billion , or 0 . 06 % of gdp . the OBR even have it as 0 . 04 % in the long run . as John Maynard Keynes say : " in the long run we be all dead . " in a write answer to I date 11 September last year , the then Minister of State for International Trade , the hon . member for Mid Worcestershire ( Nigel Huddleston ) , say that the impact assessment , where the £ 2 billion figure have come from , have " be independently scrutinise by the Regulatory Policy Committee " . I go and have a look at what the Regulatory Policy Committee have to say in order to get an idea of what " the long run " might actually mean . the Committee ' s document say : " when compare to project level of GDP or trade in 2040 without the agreement , the FTA ' s main impact ( base on central estimate and in 2021 price ) be that … UK Gross Domestic Product ( GDP ) be expect to increase by £ 2 . 0 billion . " what the Minister say in his reply will therefore be correct , just not for a further 16 year or so . in the meantime , we have a real , immediate drop of 4 % in GDP result from Brexit , leave our economy permanently drive with the handbrake on . I understand that the Government intend to adhere to the Sewel convention on this occasion and will seek the legislative consent of the devolve Parliaments and Assemblies for the Bill . the Government should do that for every piece of legislation that come through this place , not just performatively whenever they be confident of get a positive response . while the benefit of free trade be obvious , there be also an obvious benefit to have tariff in place . tariff serve a purpose ; they be not just about protectionism , as some would have it . I be encourage to hear the Secretary of State say that we would never compromise on animal welfare standard , but one sector where that be in real danger of happen be the egg production sector . I see the Minister for Trade Policy wrinkle his brow . he and I have have an exchange on this before . the sector be worth over £ 1 billion to the UK economy . tariff exist currently to protect the industry from import from mass - produce jurisdiction such as India and Mexico , which have low standard than we insist on for our domestic producer , and that our consumer rightly demand . the Minister respond , again not inaccurately , that the UK do not import many egg . well , egg be quite fragile . it be difficult enough sometimes to transport they from the shop back to our kitchen intact , let alone right around the world — but of course the egg product that we be talk about be liquefy or even powdered egg product , which once put into a shipping container can be transport around the world at comparatively very low cost . it would not require a huge amount of displacement in the market to get a foothold if those product be allow in under the term of the CPTPP . let we be under no illusion : for all that it be a £ 1 billion domestic industry , once egg producer be go , they be go and they be not come back , so there be a real risk of harm and of our standard be undermine whatever level we choose to set they at domestically , because the tariff that be there to maintain a block on import that do not meet those standard will effectively have be take away . I be not sure that the hon . member for Wyre Forest ( Mark Garnier ) quite understand what be about to happen with the border target operating model that fit alongside the legislation . a health check certificate and a consignment charge will be require for egg and egg product import from Europe , with no equivalent health check or standard require for egg import from CPTPP country , thus create an imbalance and make the scenario that the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) be talk about more likely , because of the way in which egg be produce in this country in collaboration with Europe . the hon . Lady make an excellent point . one of the irony here be that because our border will no long be protect by food import check at Rotterdam , there have basically be a free - for - all in term of the standard of product that can come in . I welcome the fact that there will be check in order to protect our biosphere , but that come at a financial cost that will hit consumer hard at a time when food inflation remain high and we be in the middle of a cost of living crisis . that be just one example of the red tape that we be tell would be cut by Brexit not be cut sideways ; it have be cut lengthway , create far more of the stuff . move away from egg , which I do not think will be the major export from Malaysia or other far - eastern member of the trans - Pacific partnership , let we look at the opportunity for Scotland . in the last year or so there have be bumper sale of scottish whisky . whisky sale in Singapore be up by some £ 90 million , and in Malaysia they be up over £ 30 million . the opportunity arise from be able to export tariff - free to Malaysia will mean a substantial increase in our single most important food and beverage export . do the hon . Member agree that we should not underestimate the opportunity for Scotland in all this ? my point about egg — I will stay on this subject for a bit — relate to India and Mexico , which be major producer . of course scottish mp be interested in good trade outcome for Scotland , but we look to trade more than just whisky . while any increase in our share of the international spirit market be welcome , it would have do we much more good if the Government with control over domestic duty have not whack an 11 . 1 % increase in duty on that product last year . I say as gently as I can to the hon . member that it be not just tariff that be significant ; many jurisdiction take their cue for the taxis levy on a product from the duty set in this country . I contend that we set a very bad example — I hope that he might agree — when whisky be tax so highly in comparison with other alcohol product in the UK domestic market . [ interruption . ] I be sorry ; I do not quite catch that . I invite the hon . member to intervene on I , if he wish to make a point . I be just make the point that taxation raise here be spend on important issue in the United Kingdom . that of course include , under the Barnett formula , significant subsidy by the English of Scotland . what a load of absolute codswallop . it may have escape the hon . member ' s notice that every part of the UK be in deficit . I do not think that a single part of the UK , perhaps not even London or the south - east , raise more in taxation than it receive in public expenditure , so can he please park the patronise trope about England subsidise everywhere else ? Scotland create one of the high level of gross value add of any part of the UK outside the vortex of London and the south - east , which suck in every aspect of capital and talent . in the spirit of try to bring the debate back to the fantastic opportunity for Scotland , as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Brunei , I be delighted to go to Aberdeen to meet a number of scottish company in the incredibly important business of decommissioning and renewal in the oil and gas industry . Brunei have sign a deal worth , I think , £ 350 million with scottish business . that be not subject to any controversy . may I also say that the hon . member ' s contribution to this place be incredibly useful ? it be a very good symbol of why member of the SNP and Scottish Members of Parliament be so valuable to the Union , and to debate such as this in the British Parliament . long may you be welcome here in Britain . we seem to be be pull back to the topic , but now I be be tempt to go off down another rabbit hole . while I thank the hon . member for his generous comment , I know exactly what side my bread be butter on . I be a long - stand supporter of scottish independence because I have a simple belief that the good people to run Scotland and make decision about Scotland be those who have choose to make their life there . with all due respect to this place and its tradition , I think that we could do a far well job from the Parliament in Edinburgh . I will get back to the purpose of the debate , as entertaining as that no doubt be for all concerned . the SNP retain concern about the ability to apply investor - state dispute settlement under the cptpp . a deal for Canada have , for now at least , hit the buffer , but it be concern that there be no indication from the Government of any side letter about investor - state dispute settlement similar to those apply in respect of the fta with Australia and New Zealand . there be real concern that investor - state dispute settlement could have an impact on standard and decision take here . we firmly believe that trade deal do right can channel and create potential to support decent job and raise standard , not just domestically but globally . it be therefore worry that the ethos of the CPTPP mean effectively abandon the precautionary principle , which place the burden of proof on the producer to show that a product be safe . instead , the burden will be on the regulator to prove that something be a danger before action can be take . that can only act as a downward pressure on standard . the committee on regulatory coherence will no doubt also become a focus for this issue , whether we be talk about antibiotic in agriculture , the impact of decision on deforestation , or something as iconic as palm oil ; we have already agree a 12 % tariff on import from Malaysia , irrespective of the impact that that would have . we have further concern about the impact on worker ’ right and domestic condition . there be the risk of be undermine by low cost elsewhere , result from low standard on labour right and obligation , or low regulatory standard more broadly . we be concerned about the impact that that could have on our public service , and our ability to set domestic law and regulation could come under challenge , either from the economic force that be unleash or through the ISDS mechanism . all thing consider , the Government have make a blustery and boosterish contribution , while be very bla é about and dismissive of the concern raise . as I say early , the SNP will not seek to divide the House on the Bill this evening , but we certainly look forward to explore all those issue far in Committee . I suppose I should start by declare an interest , because nearly 10 year ago I write a book call " turn to face the East : how Britain can prosper in the asian century " , which be an encouragement for exactly this kind of initiative . I be a supporter of CPTPP and I be grateful to the Secretary of State , who be no long in her place , for join we at the Business and Trade Committee last week , along with other , to provide evidence on the treaty . the Committee hope , if its member be amenable , to publish a report on CPTPP over the next couple of week , and certainly before Committee stage of this Bill , to try to maximise opportunity to build cross - party consensus on something very important to all our future . I want briefly to say a word about size , a word about standard , and a word about settlement of investor dispute , but it behove we all in this House to recognise the point we start from : trade and export growth be not where it need to be , or where member on both side of the House want it to be . we know the old joke : not all fairytale start with " once upon a time " ; some of they begin with " when I be elect " . look back at the conservative manifesto for the last election , we might be tempt to label it a bit of a fairy story , because it say very clearly that the goal be to set out free trade agreement cover about 80 % of british trade , and we be nowhere near that . we be in fact much close to 60 % . the Secretary of State put most of the onus for that on a change of Administration in America , but the truth be that apart from the cut - and - paste , roll - over trade deal that we have have since leave the European Union , we have only sign three new free trade deal . I be glad to hear that what would have be the fourth new one , which we hope to sign with Canada , be not dead , but it certainly appear to be run into trouble last week . I be sad that the Secretary of State do not come to the House to make a statement about that news today . that would have be appropriate . however , I be grateful that she have make some reassuring noise about it in this debate . when the Select Committee put the point about the lack of fta to the Secretary of State last week , she say that she have " pivot away " from fta . that be not necessarily a good thing , because she go on to say that she , like many economist , think that fta do promote trade . the bottom line be that our export performance be way off target . the Government have set an export target of about £ 1 trillion by 2030 , which interestingly have not be adjust up for inflation as arguably it should have be , but the Institute of Directors last year say that we need export growth to be get on for about 3 . 5 % . as the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , say , we be nowhere near achieve that performance . we have an export growth forecast of roughly 0 . 1 % , 0 . 2 % , or 0 . 3 % . the Secretary of State very kindly agree not to have a public argument with the Office for Budget Responsibility last week , and I think we be all grateful for that , but she say there be different model — not alternative fact , but alternative model — in her Department . I have write to she today to ask for the publication of those model so that the Select Committee can scrutinise they before the Bill go into Committee . Scale be important because our trade performance be off track . generally speak , economy that trade more , grow fast , and we want our economy to grow fast , because we all share an interest in raise the living standard of our constituent . that be why my the first point , about the scale of CPTPP in the future , be so important . the Secretary of State have stack up a lot of her argument on our needing to go in future to where the growth be . she say that if we can not do trade deal where the growth be today — for example , with our partner in America — we should go to where the growth will be tomorrow . that be a reasonable argument , and Asia - Pacific country account for over 70 % of global GDP growth in the decade up to 2023 . however , China account for about one third of global GDP growth . that be why I push the Secretary of State again , as I do last week , to at least show we how we will have a conversation about how this country will make a rational decision with partner on whether to agree to ratify China , if it meet the technical standard . we have similar question to resolve on Taiwan , but in his public pronouncement , President Xi have make it very clear that he be ambitious for China to meet the technical standard . the question be therefore whether , if China meet the technical standard , we would stand in the way of ratification , or whether other important geopolitical consideration would inspire we to block it . look beyond China to the CPTPP ' s future more generally , give that we have set such store by this treaty , what be our vision for its future ? where be the road map ? the Department publish a document a year or two ago on the strategic benefit , but the Secretary of State resile from all the number in that report last week . I do not think that be a good way to make public policy , but let I put it this way : our debate about trade policy and strategy ahead of the election would be much strong if we have good figure on the table about the option and choice confront our country . we will certainly do our bit in the Business and Trade Committee to supply those figure , but it would be fantastic if the Secretary of State could commit to do something similar . the question that follow on from size be about standard . there be controversial topic that we take evidence on last week , and we will capture what we learn in the report that we publish . there be question about environmental and climate impact ; there be general provision about those in the treaty , but they be not enforceable and there be not much mention of net zero . if we think about the treaty as something that be fairly marginal for trade today — it represent about a 0 . 09 % GDP uplift over nine year — but be geopolitically important , we need to think about how it become a load - bear structure for more of our ambition in the world , such as the race to net zero . maybe when the Minister be wind up he could say a bit more about how we can freight this treaty with some of our other national interest . the point about food production standard have already come up . no change to UK standard be entail in the treaty , but there be concern about sanitary and phytosanitary rule , base on the precautionary principle . the evidence we hear say that they could be challenge . it be a legally murky area and , on balance , the challenge seem unlikely to succeed , but that be none the less something to explore in the Bill Committee . it could well be that that Committee want to ensure that further safeguard be write into the Bill over the course of its passage . there will be an increase in import of agrifood good produce to low standard than UK standard . that be true when it come to pesticide , genetically modify organism and animal welfare , but not to antimicrobial . on pesticide , the Trade and Agriculture Commission find some basis for weak standard ; on GMOs it find some basis for concern . on environmental law and policy , palm oil import be obviously controversial , particularly when it come to deforestation in Malaysia , but the TAC find that the concern be , if not non - present — there be concern to be have — then perhaps slightly overstate . the final point be about investor - state dispute settlement . again , the treaty extend the application of ISDS to Canada , Japan and Brunei . one way in which that have become such a big issue be that organisation such as the canadian teacher ' pension fund be some of the big investor in the world , with significant investment in the UK water industry . there have be 1 , 300 or 1 , 500 of those case around the world . the evidence we hear suggest that the UK be likely to be able to successfully defend such case . one consideration about which we should hear a little more be whether the presence of those clause in the Bill create a chilling effect on the way in which we regulate our market here . if we want to regulate the water industry differently in future , would we not bring forward those regulation because of fear about what would happen and how we might be challenge ? the gain from the treaty , as draft , be modest . they generally come from the fact that we have a new FTA , as part of the treaty , with Malaysia and Brunei . that be good for whisky , for car and for chocolate , such as that make in Bournville . a single set of rule of origin and a single cumulation zone be good thing . access to some of the agrifood quota , such as canadian dairy , be a good thing . some of the progress make in the digital chapter , about which the Secretary of State do not talk much , could be quite useful and can be build on more generally . we have to conclude that the trade benefit as of now be no substitute for iron out the difficulty that bedevil trade between the UK and our close neighbour , the EU . across the House , we should collectively ensure that we be do what we can to advance the prospect of a UK - US trade deal . these be modest trade benefit but an important geostrategic step forward . it be good to have this second Reading debate , which I welcome . like the hon . member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) , I very much hope that the Government will make time for we to have a debate under the CRaG principle about whether the treaty as a whole go forward . we would welcome the opportunity to have an amendable motion on that , as the other place do recently on the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill . the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee have publish an excellent report today about how we can well consider treaty . in this new world , Parliament as a whole must get a lot well at study these kind of trade agreement and ensure that they dovetail with other aspect of our economic and national security . I look forward to the debate in the Bill Committee , which I hope will benefit from the report that our Select Committee will supply . I rise to broadly welcome the UK ' s accession to the CPTPP . the Liberal Democrats support effort that create opportunity for british firm around the world , not just in the here and now , but in year to come . however , the reality be that the immediate benefit of the CPTPP will be a drop in the ocean . give that the UK have , or be about to have , trade agreement with all but two country that be currently part of the cptpp , it be perhaps not surprising that analysis suggest that the immediate benefit will be limit and that the Government ' s own projection show that the economic impact will be minimal . I will address three particular area . the first relate to the fear of our farming community , which have be mention . the National Farmers Union be concerned about the lack of core standard for food import . as colleague in the other place have note , when it come to the CPTPP , those concern be not so much about the protection of UK standard but about the standard in other country , which could undermine and undercut UK business through import . in particular , UK farmer produce egg , pork and beef be potentially vulnerable to import produce use practice that be ban in the UK . I can therefore understand the concern of the farming community , which be proud of the UK ' s high animal welfare standard in food production and worry about be undercut by low - standard import from elsewhere . I also understand why consumer will be worried about food produce to low standard reach their local supermarket . my liberal Democrat colleague and I be keen to avoid a race to the bottom , and to ensure that our animal welfare standard be not diminish as part of any trade agreement . the second issue relate to our creative industry , which be worried about propose change to copyright law . the UK have one of the good intellectual property regime in the world . it be therefore understandable that the business and creator that depend on strong ip right , and that play a vital role in our economy , want assurance from the Government that the UK ' s accession to the CPTPP will not have an adverse impact on they . like other , the Alliance for Intellectual Property have raise a number of concern , note the lack of reciprocity in the Bill in relation to copyright law , particularly on performer ' right . if I have understand correctly , the Bill would extend payment right , or equitable remuneration , to foreign artist who perform in the UK , without ensure reciprocal arrangement for UK artist who perform in those country . that seem perverse . it would be good to know what impact assessment , if any , have be do on that area . I would welcome clarification from the Minister in his closing remark . the third area relate to the accession of other country . the benefit of the CPTPP may in fact come as other country with which we do not currently enjoy trade agreement join . however , it would be remiss of I not to mention concern , which we have already hear , about the potential accession of China . my noble Friend Lord Purvis outline in the other place the reason a debate about China be so important . he say that it be " not just the scale of the UK ' s trade with China but how resilient we be in relation to it . " our trade in good with China be currently at a £ 40 billion deficit . that be the large deficit with a single country in our nation ' s history . as Lord Purvis point out : " the shipping of good from China , which we depend on for our consumer , come through the very area where we have deploy military asset " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 16 January 2024 ; Vol . 835 , c . 337 - 38 . ] in recent week . it be in our geopolitical and strategic trading interest that Parliament devote time to debate our relationship with China . I hope that the Government will make the most of the UK ' s place in the cptpp to protect the interest of our ally in the region , and human right , from China ' s action . I will finish by reiterate a plea that I have make previously , and which other hon . member have make in the debate , about the need for great parliamentary scrutiny of all free trade agreement . we be debate the Bill because primary legislation be require for the UK to be compliant with the cptpp when it enter into force . in the past , the Government have commit to give Parliament great scrutiny of free trade agreement but then renege on it . they break their commitment to give Parliament a vote on the Australia trade deal , for example , which have terrible consequence for british farmer . the fact that we be have this debate today be welcome , but I leave Ministers with the message that it should not be the exception to the rule . I will raise three issue : the scrutiny process , ISDS and my ongoing concern about the impact of the measure . I be a member of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . I be the sole Committee member present in the Chamber because the other be on a delegation to Berlin at the moment — I be sure that they be work hard at this time of night , and not have a dinner . as have be mention , we publish our report today ; it be a comprehensive report , agree by all party . we have be look at the overall parliamentary scrutiny process for treaty and free trade agreement and , to be frank , we have unanimously find that the current process be unfit for purpose . at the moment , Parliament — I do not disparage the Government for this ; it have happen consistently in the past — be treat as an afterthought in trade policy . we have not be able to find any meaningful mechanism by which Parliament can influence the negotiate objective at the beginning of the overall process or oversee negotiation as they proceed , and we be never guarantee a vote on the final agreement at the end of the process — a point that have be make on a number of occasion by member across the House . that contrast with what happen in other legislature , particularly the US Congress , where legislator play an incredibly proactive role . I do not think the Government should see the parliamentary process as an imposition with regard to future treaty , but as a method of improve the trade negotiation by allow Members of Parliament to have an early and ongoing voice in those discussion . it be interesting that other member — include the former Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) — make exactly the same point during a debate in this House on the Australia free trade agreement , way back in November 2022 . the right hon . Gentleman set out how during talk with Japan , the japanese negotiator use parliamentary motion that their government could not breach to protect their country ' s interest . People will see from the report that we have put forward a fairly comprehensive process by which the House can efficiently and effectively engage itself in such negotiation , with a sifting committee and a scrutiny committee . the House would always have the right to a vote at the end of the day , but more importantly , it would have an influence at the beginning of the negotiation when the overall objective be set . the propose process be part of an overall attempt to create great transparency and , indeed , great interest within the House in trade negotiation . I hope that the Government will take the Select Committee report away and come back with a positive response , because it contain some very constructive recommendation . I now turn to the much discuss investor - state dispute settlement procedure . in debate in recent year , member from across the House have express concern about the investor - state dispute mechanism , and those concern have move into the mainstream — not just in this country , but in other country that be move away from that system . as we have hear , Australia and New Zealand have commit to exclude the ISDS procedure from future trade agreement on the basis that in many instance , that procedure be not in the public interest . I cite the energy charter treaty . that have be the big vehicle for ISDS claim , and it be collapse , with France , Germany , the Netherlands , Spain and other withdraw . President Biden have now come out and criticise the ISDS procedure , and have basically exclude they from any future US trade agreement . as the Minister know , I have raise this matter in the House a number of time . I be sometimes perplexed : we be tell that the Government be commit to the ISDS process , but on the other hand , they have accede to both Australia and New Zealand exempt themselves from that process with regard to the UK . the last time I raise this issue , the Minister respond by say — exactly as the Chair of the Business and Trade Select Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) , note — that the UK have never be successfully challenge under ISDS . that be true , but there be an element of hubris in that position . my right hon . friend be make an excellent speech , and he be absolutely right to flag this issue . the UK Government have not hitherto be successfully challenge under ISDS , but for the first time , country with very significant foreign direct investment into the UK be involve in this treaty . the figure for Canada alone be $ 56 billion . when it come to Japan — the other big investor — ISDS be exclude from the UK - Japan bilateral investment treaty . we need an awful lot more reassurance from the Government on this point , give the scale of investment from country such as Canada in our country in general , but in sector such as the water industry in particular . I do not know how excellent my speech be — I will just ramble on as usual , I think . the argument that be put to I by the Minister respond today , the right hon . member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Greg Hands ) , be that if we can not trust Canada in these deal , who can we trust ? that be precisely the point , though : Canada will now have a parallel system , and canadian firm will be able to take legal action in their own country . as a result of that statement by the Minister , I go away and have a look at the figure for canadian firm under this process , and those firm stand out as be particularly litigious . they have bring over 65 ISDS case in recent year . I therefore think that there be a chilling effect , exactly as the Chair of the Select Committee say , which at the end of the day can have implication for the UK ' s right to regulate . if a number of case be wage against the UK , that may undermine our ability to act more freely when it come to regulation of the water sector , and also policy development , particularly on issue around water and future public ownership . again , I have previously raise this matter with the Secretary of State . what I can not completely understand be that at the same time that the UK Government be defend the ISDS process with regard to the CPTPP , in the negotiating process for the bilateral free trade agreement they set out a specific objective to exclude the provision of the ISDS system . that be a contradiction , and the Government ' s think on that matter have not yet be explain to I . as the Minister will also know , there be a remarkably broad range of concern about the ISDS : in October 2023 , a letter be submit to the Government — support by 30 non - governmental organisation and trade union and over 50 academic and legal professional from both the UK and Canada — call for the immediate negotiation of a side letter between the UK and Canada to disapply the ISDS provision between the two country . that be exactly what happen with regard to New Zealand and Australia , and for the life of I , I can not understand why the Government have not go down that path for this particular negotiation . I also want to express some concern that have be raise about environmental issue and about labour standard . the cptpp include a number of country where abuse of labour right be widespread . to give a few example , independent trade union be ban in Brunei and Vietnam , while force labour have be widely document in Malaysia in various piece of research , and a number of CPTPP member state have not ratify some of the core International Labour Organisation convention . the protection for labour right within the CPTPP be particularly weak : a member state can only challenge another member state over a failure to uphold labour right if it can be demonstrate that such a failure affect trade , which be notoriously difficult to prove in such case . the ineffectual nature of that chapter be demonstrate by the fact that since the agreement ' s conclusion in 2018 , no Government have challenge another for abuse right . the TUC have describe the risk of CPTPP make it " easy for unethical company and investor to do business with country where it ' s easy to exploit worker " — a risk that it consider to be significant . I do not think we have address that issue sufficiently . there be also concern regard standard in partner country . for example , as have already be say , pesticide standard could be undermine . some 119 pesticide that be ban in the UK be allow for use in one or more CPTPP member state . although accession to the CPTPP do not necessitate any lowering of UK standard in this regard , when the peer debate this issue , there be really practical question about the sufficiency of the UK ' s border testing regime in keep ban substance out . again , it be an issue that need further consideration in more detail as we go through the whole process . the issue have be raise — and I know that the Chair of the Select Committee say that this may well have be exaggerated or overestimate in some of the debate — that the UK have accede to Malaysia ' s demand to lower tariff on palm oil to zero . I have to say that the evidence I have see and the representation I have receive from the Trade Justice Movement and other be that this be highly likely to increase palm oil export and , with that , the risk of deforestation , which will serve to undermine indigenous and local community land right and threaten natural habitat for specie such as orangutan . we have see the various research and the range of evidence mount on this particular issue . again , it be debate in the Lords in the context of the potential protection afford by the UK forest risk commodity legislation , under section 17 of the Environment Act 2021 , but it be unclear when these regulation will actually come into effect , and therefore many believe that the protection be not in place at this stage . there be also a view that accession to the CPTPP will bring risk of the erosion of preference , under which current preferential trade agreement afford to exporter in one country will bring negative development impact on other . one example cite by the Trade Justice Movement be that Afruibana , the association represent banana exporter across Africa , have set out concern regard the potential impact of tariff liberalisation in south and central America for those they represent . finally , one of the report send to I be a health impact assessment produce by Public Health Wales . it identify a range of diverse potential impact , include the worsening of global air pollution due to transport distance for good , the loss of employment for some population group and , of course , the risk of ISDS case be bring against regulation that seek to support public health outcome . it be an important impact assessment that need further scrutiny and examination . it leave I with the impression overall that there have be a lack of impact assessment , so I look forward to the Select Committee report , which will go into further depth on this . I come to the conclusion that , with all the risk involve and with such doubt surround the cptpp , it will achieve what we could not even describe as a marginal economic gain over the length of time it will be in place , and I fear to tread on treaty and agreement of this sort . I just think that , although there be not go to be a vote tonight , I might be tempt at a later date to vote against the Bill — so I have well let the Labour whip know that . the CPTPP pose a serious public health risk , make we complicit in untold environmental harm and be " another nail in the coffin " for UK farmer , as one constituent put it to I last week . I be deeply concerned about the livelihood of farmer , who will be expose to increase competition from low standard farm input , mean that many domestic farmer may struggle to compete . far to the point I make early , do the hon . Lady not recognise that the report on the CPTPP by the Trade and Agriculture Commission , which be set up all those year ago because people be worried about what be go to be in the Australia agreement — it be set up on a constitutional or statutory footing , be there to review all our trade agreement , and include people such as Nick von Westenholz from the NFU and a number of other member from the agriculture community — do not find that it be damaging to farmer across this country ? if that report be to be believe , would she not have do well to tell her constituent that this be not the case , rather than allow that fear to run wild ? I thank the hon . member for those interesting point . I be concerned about the negative impact that this Bill have on modern innovative and sustainable agribusiness . I be concerned about the worsening of the UK ' s environmental impact , and the fading net zero commitment that this Government be shy away from . I be concerned about the human right implication that my constituent , as consumer , may be make to stomach . I have many constituent work in the agrifood industry who feel they have be mislead by this Tory Administration . one farmer tell I last week that " this Government say one thing with its many mouth and then do something completely different " . we ask our farmer to maintain high welfare and environmental standard — and rightly so — but some signatory , such as Mexico , have almost none . food security expert Professor Chris Elliott tell I : " it ' s absolutely not a level playing field in any stretch of the imagination " . we Liberal Democrats agree with the NFU and the World Wildlife Fund in demand core production standard for agrifood import , which would uphold the ban on hormone treatment for cattle and prevent the import of food contain any of the 119 pesticide ban in the UK — to give just two example . which ? survey show that 84 % of the country agree with we , and I urge the Government to adopt this measure . I be sorry , but I just feel that this matter should be hammer home . the opening summary of the Trade and Agriculture Commission report on the CPTPP state : " question 1 : do CPTPP require the UK to change its level of statutory protection in relation to ( a ) animal or plant life or health , ( b ) animal welfare , and ( c ) environmental protection ? " the answer from the Trade and Agriculture Commission be : " no . CPTPP do not require the UK to change its level of statutory protection in relation to ( a ) animal or plant life or health , ( b ) animal welfare , or ( c ) environmental protection . " this be not go to damage they , so the hon . member must go back to her constituent and reassure they , rather than allow this mistruth to run wild across the countryside . the hon . Member make an interesting point , but my view be about what the future will bring . I have speak in this place about the concern I have regard the mental health of farmer and farm worker , and the situation that farmer face be stark . in 2021 , over a third of farmer survey by the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Institution be " probably or possibly depressed " . trade deal implement since the Tory Brexit arrangement be cause significant financial stress and uncertainty to many agrifood business . dairy , beef and poultry producer have approach I for help , fear that they may not be in business by the summer . one farmer in Castle Cary tell I last week that " we farmer be the one who stump up the cost " . I be proud to have some of the country ' s old cheddar producer in my constituency , such as Wyke Farms near Bruton , and many new artisan cheese producer , like Feltham ' s Farm in Horsington , but even award - win cheeserie be not safe from the toxic tendril of this deal . the effect will be feel by business in the supply chain as well , such as Sycamore Process Engineering , a grow local business base in Sparkford , where 67 local people work ; and if those business ' customer go bust , so will they . lose agrifood business would irrecoverably alter our rural way of life . the farmer in Castle Cary also speak of the " hide cost of cheap food " , and one of those cost be welfare , both human and animal . I echo the word of my noble friend Baroness Bakewell about the threat to indigenous people in palm oil produce forest , which the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) have mention . International Labour Organisation standard be not incumbent on signatory to this deal . we should have grave concern about suspiciously under - price food landing in our market , when the average vietnamese harvest worker get £ 5 . 50 per hour , accord to the Economic Research Institute . how can we know whether the people produce this food have be pay at all ? the egg producer in Mexico , who will undercut my constituent by about a third , be subject their chicken to horrendous living condition , and be themselves at the mercy of powerful cartel . they live in " slavery - like condition " , accord to El Pa í s this month , where cartel have " take over all link of the supply chain " , and " violence and extortion add to the ravage of climate change " . be this the sort of modern trade we want to support ? will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not . I want to end with a stark and urgent warning . last month , the Food Standards Agency have to issue a health warning after a rise in salmonella case from polish egg and poultry meat , with 200 case report in 2023 . that risk only grow when we open the floodgate to egg and poultry produce to low standard . Professor Elliott warn I about antibiotic deploy en masse without veterinary approval , Government control , or knowledge of the antibiotic ' provenance . such use and abuse of antibiotic be part of a frightening health picture . Professor Elliott caution that " most country do not have the infrastructure , regulation or oversight of drug or pathogen — we could be open up Pandora ' s box . " batch - test import just will not work . antibiotic resistance will spread from plate to platelet , and we would have a hard time swallow that unpalatable morsel . my constituent have record low trust in the Government . remove water from the egg of an imprisoned chicken , drug up on antibiotic that it do not need , and ship that egg 5 , 000 mile to put into pancake mix and insipid sandwich , be what my constituent have come to expect from this Tory Administration . many of my constituent will not stomach toxic Tory trade deal , and we must urgently renegotiate they and have more mandatory parliamentary power for future deal . we can not afford the health cost to our population , the carbon cost to the planet , and the financial cost to our farmer . we have the chance to be world leader in modern , world - beat , innovative , sustainable agriculture , and to proudly keep our high standard and improve our food security . let we not lose that opportunity . it be an honour and privilege to close today ' s enthral debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s official opposition . tonight , as we consider Second reading of this important Bill , it be essential to balance our support for it with a critical eye . labour support CPTPP accession , albeit with reservation , and this Government be know to promise " oven - ready " deal that often break more ground in rhetoric than in reality . the Labour party recognise the UK ' s untapped trade potential , and be commit to harness it . however , we must acknowledge the Government ' s over - estimation of the CPTPP benefit . initially they suggest a 0 . 08 % GDP boost over 10 year , but recent forecast have downgrade that to a mere 0 . 04 % in the long run . to ensure that trade be a force for good , we must subject such deal to rigorous scrutiny , and commit to progress on climate change , human right , and labour condition globally . as hon . member have state , the devil be indeed in the detail . the failure to deliver on manifesto commitment , include agreement with India and the US , highlight the need for a realistic evaluation of CPTPP ' s benefit . as illustrate by the hon . member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) , there be no deny the importance of close tie with Indo - Pacific ally , especially in these uncertain time . however , although CPTPP offer trade advantage such as rule of origin provision and potential for improved term , grand Government claim of " unparalleled opportunity " and " glitter " post - Brexit prize must be substantiate and ground . it be my duty to ensure not just that the skeleton of the deal accede , but that british business thrive as a result . in his excellent speech , my hon . friend the Member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) highlight the concern of our creative industry , and the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) and for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) explain concern surround farming and China . consider that we already have free trade agreement with nine CPTPP member , the immediate benefit of formally join the CPTPP might seem limited . the Government ' s projection of a mere 0 . 06 % boost to the UK ' s gdp from CPTPP call for a measured evaluation of its actual economic impact . this deal put we at the heart of a dynamic group of economy , but it be crucial that we do not stop push for more ambitious growth . we do not have that privilege after 14 long year of conservative rule . our stagnate economy need a much need boost . indeed , in the last 10 year , Britain have have the second bad export record in the G7 . that be why change be necessary . have speak to british exporter in my constituency and across our country , I know that the challenge they face post Brexit be substantial , and increase barrier , red tape and bureaucracy have be a significant hindrance . the Bill must be part of a large strategy to revitalise our global trade presence , yet Labour see untapped potential here . for example , we recognise the immense contribution that small and medium - sized business make to our economy , with a £ 2 . 4 trillion contribution and employment for 16 . 7 million people . however , the Government ' s approach to support those enterprise in expand their export potential lack clear strategic direction and coherence . labour ' s plan for small business aim to address those gap , ensure that sme have the necessary support and framework to flourish in international market . the CPTPP symbolise international co - operation and unlock untapped SME potential , with around 375 , 000 UK sme not currently engage in international trade represent a £ 290 billion export opportunity . there be indeed untapped potential wait to be harness . the Bill also highlight the regulatory burden face by business , and we must reduce the complex web of regulation . it far lower tariff to enhance market access and choice for business source from CPTPP country , potentially benefit consumer . however , it be important to note that that may expose some UK business to increase competition from CPTPP exporter . let we look more closely at the impact than at the wording of this deal . as my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) eloquently explain , the inclusion of investor state dispute settlement mechanism in the cptpp raise grave concern about the influence of foreign investor . we must scrutinise those provision to protect our sovereignty and democratic principle . our commitment to environmental stewardship be critical . the World Wildlife Fund have express concern about the CPTPP ' s impact on deforestation , particularly palm oil , which could conflict with our commitment in the Environment Act 2021 . we must ensure that our trade policy align with robust environmental protection . it be essential that our trade deal do not undermine our effort to combat the climate crisis . the Government ' s optimistic portrayal of the CPTPP must be balance against a history of over - promising and under - deliver in trade deal . figure from the respected independent Office for Budget Responsibility suggest that the CPTPP might contribute only a marginal 0 . 04 % to our gdp . the Government hail the CPTPP as a transformative deal and a potential panacea for our post - Brexit trade woe , but let we be clear that while they paint a rosy picture of economic prosperity , the empirical evidence suggest otherwise , as be excellently elaborate on by the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) . we be promise sunlit upland post Brexit , yet here we be squint to see the benefit through a fog of uncertainty . that be not empirical evidence . a forecast be not empirical fact — it be a forecast — and these be model exercise by their very nature . I challenge the hon . member to give I proof from any trade agreement , with the value at the beginning versus what it be at the five - year mark and the 10 - year mark . nearly every trade agreement , whether sign by the European Union , the UK or the Americans , have always be undervalue because the emphasis be on business and community take advantage of it . I thank the hon . member for that intervention . just as the Government ' s aspiration go by those figure , we must likewise respect the figure of the Office for Budget Responsibility , as it be a lot more rigorous in its exercise . we can not discard its figure ; indeed , we must dwell on they as the wide british industry and the economy look closely at those figure . they be the good figure we have , rather than anything that the Government or anybody else have put on the table . it crucial to acknowledge the broad context of the UK ' s export performance . in recent year , we have see a concern decline in our export capability , raise question about how effectively the CPTPP can reverse the trend . the Bill must be part of a large strategy to revitalise our global trade presence and not be just a stand - alone solution . the deal be negotiate by the party that have hike trade barrier , crash our economy , drive up food price , engage in damage megaphone diplomacy , increase bureaucracy for our business trade internationally , and much bad besides . in contrast , Labour ' s objective be to increase trade and international co - operation , and we will be closely watch the execution of this deal . the Government have repeatedly fail on their promise on the international stage . we support international trade and global co - operation , but that must translate into tangible benefit for british job , consumer and our overall global economic prosperity . that trade also can not come at the cost of our moral and ethical commitment to , for example , human right , labour right , food standard and the environment . labour ' s approach to the CPTPP will be one of cautious optimism , balance by a realistic assessment of its potential impact on our national interest . as we edge close to a much await election that will help to put the british public out of their misery , the Labour party stand as the true party of business and trade , advocate for agreement that genuinely benefit the UK ' s economy . we support the CPTPP but remain vigilant about ensure that it align with our vision of a thriving , globally competitive Britain . we be committed to a future where Great Britain not only engage with the world but lead in a fair , equitable and profitable trade relationship with our partner around the world . it be a pleasure to reply to what have be a wide - range and often well - inform debate . the Bill ' s passage will enable the UK to meet international obligation on accession to the CPTPP , thereby unlock the next chapter in the country ' s proud tradition of trading freely with the world . act as a gateway to growth , the agreement will place the UK at the centre of a vast free trade area currently comprise 11 sovereign country . for UK consumer , reduction in tariff could lead to cheap import , well choice and high quality product , all while protection in critical area be maintain . with more than 99 % of current good export to CPTPP party be eligible for zero tariff , business in every corner of the UK stand to benefit . I will lightly sidestep the party political debate . as the Minister know , my interest be in Mexico — I have chair the all - party parliamentary group on Mexico for five year , and be now proudly the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Mexico — which be the world ' s 16th large economy and will be the ninth large by 2030 . that offer great opportunity , not least for my region , the north - west , which trade more with Mexico than any other region . plenty of labour right be include in the cptpp ; the question be how they will be enforce . for instance , every party to the CPTPP hold obligation under the International Labour Organisation . the question be how we trade more as well as raise protection through the CPTPP . I think for a moment that the hon . Member be go to verge off into football . I be go to congratulate he on his constituency team , Liverpool , beat Fulham last week . in any case , I thank he . he be recently appoint the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Mexico , which be a really important position . in general , Mexico present a great opportunity . our roll - over trade deal with Mexico date from a long time ago — about 2002 - 03 . the hon . Member will know that the CPTPP include a comprehensive chapter on labour , with bind provision on fundamental labour right , minimum wage , hour of work and health and safety . all party to the CPTPP be member of the ILO , and they be not allow to derogate from their domestic labour law to give they an unfair trade advantage . that be how the labour chapter in the CPTPP work . I look forward to discussion with he , and to do everything we can to work together to boost trade with Mexico . before I extoll the benefit of the agreement still far , I will say that it be a pleasure to be back at the Department , and to see the further progress be make tonight towards the UK be the 12th party to the CPTPP . this be a tremendously exciting moment for both the UK and global trade policy — one that the Department and I personally have be build towards for many year . back in about 2017 , one of the early decision in the Department under the then Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for North Somerset ( Sir Liam Fox ) , be to explore accession to the trans - Pacific partnership , as the cptpp be then know . may I pay tribute to my right hon . friend for the work that he have do , both on this arrangement in general , and more specifically in promote our mutual trade and investment agreement with nation in Asia ? it be the 67th year of malaysian independence ; this be the first trade and investment agreement that we have ever have with that very encouraging far - eastern nation , with which we can develop a great and strong relationship . do he agree ? my hon . friend be quite right . of course , successive Secretaries of State have pursue that relationship , include the current Secretary of State , who be personally obviously very committed . I think that I have make two visit to Malaysia in my time as Trade Minister , and we be really excited about have a well trade relationship with Malaysia . it seem a logical move to join the CPTPP , as it include many of our global free trading cohort , include Japan , Australia and New Zealand , but it do not have the controversial aspect of free trade zone in Europe , such as free movement , financial contribution and dynamic alignment of rule . as the Secretary of State say , the agreement will grow . join the cptpp will be great news for the UK as an independent trading nation , and for UK good and service exporter . they include beverage producer in Scotland — I do not hear the SNP extoll that virtue — machinery manufacturer in Wales , and car manufacturer in Northern Ireland and the west midland . accord to 2022 datum , the UK be the world ' s second large service exporter — a point also raise by my hon . friend on the Government Benches . join the cptpp will help minimise unnecessary datum flow barrier , empower UK service exporter and encourage inward financial investment — a point make by my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( Mark Pawsey ) . overall , it will provide we with a new presence in the wide Indo - Pacific region — a region of paramount geopolitical and economic importance , and one that be expect to account for 54 % of global economic growth by 2050 . I warmly welcome the constructive comment make and the support from sector across the country . in her opening speech , the Secretary of State quote the president of the National Farmers Union and the director - general of the Institute of Export and International Trade . I would like to add just one more quote , from the Federation of Small Businesses . we have an intervention early about sme ; the FSB say that it be " very pleased to see the UK officially join " . in FSB research , 45 % of small exporter say that access to this market will be important for future growth . today we have hear a number of important point raise , and I will try to answer as many as possible in the time available . I remind the House of the specific purpose of the Bill : to enable the implementation of aspect of the cptpp when the UK accede , specifically relate to chapter on intellectual property , Government procurement and technical barrier to trade . first of all , we hear from the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , who give we his familiar explication of how we be not do enough trade deal , even though he have vote against every single one of the deal that we have do . we hear about his attitude to Canada , and his faux outrage about the idea that there might be a weakening in the exist trade deal with Canada . we hear that from the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) and the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Stella Creasy ) . they also say that the Government be let down people by not have an effective continuation of the Canada trade deal . we can differ on that , but the difference in the case of the hon . member for Harrow West be that he vote against the Canada trade deal in the first place . he be now take time to complain about the weakening of an agreement that he do not support from the very off . on China , the hon . member for Harrow West have be remind about the Auckland principle , and that all country accede to the CPTPP must accede to the high standard of the agreement , have a history of conform with trade agreement and command the consensus of the party . the investor - state dispute settlement , which be also raise by the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) , be in the agreement , but I remind the House that the UK have never lose a case . the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington call it hubristic to mention that , but it be a fact , and the agreement never prevent the right to regulate . on performer ' right , raise by the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) , the CPTPP be an exist agreement , and change will have to be make . I have make this point on previous occasion , but I just want to understand the logic of the Government ' s position of allow the ISDS in this particular deal , but try to avoid it in the free trade agreement with Canada . these be all matter for negotiation . what happen in one negotiation will not always be the same as what happen in another ; it be impossible to compare they . I can say that we already have ISDS provision with seven of the 11 CPTPP member . will the Minister give way ? I will not , because I be try to respond to the right hon . Gentleman ' s early point . on performer ' right , raise by the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham , we expect the practical impact to be small . the Intellectual Property Office be carry out a consultation on how the provision will be implement . my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) make a characteristically upbeat and excellent speech , point out that the region have £ 12 trillion in GDP , how the UK will be — and be — at the forefront of global trade , and how the deal will make no alteration to our standard . from the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) , we hear a familiar tale of woe . he fail to stick up for Scotland and to point out all the trade benefit for Scotland . he say that he have be against every single UK trade deal , and that be correct , but he fail to mention that he have also be against every single EU trade deal that have ever be negotiate . he wish to rejoin the EU and be subject to those very trade deal that he spend year campaign against . he be against the Canada deal , the South Africa deal , the Japan deal , the Singapore deal and the Korea deal . the hon . Member fail to mention the particular benefit to Scotland . he be wrong when he say that the GDP increase be £ 2 billion — it be £ 2 billion per annum . then , he go down an extraordinary road of talk about egg . ninety per cent . of our egg consumption come from domestic production . all egg be subject to sanitary and phytosanitary check , and from Wednesday , EU egg will be , too , under the border target operating model . we have import hardly any egg at all from CPTPP country since 2015 . I think he mention egg from Mexico , but there have be not a single import of an egg from Mexico since 2005 . this be the most extraordinary scaremongering . the Trade and Agriculture Commission say : " we find it be unlikely that egg from CPTPP party … would be import into the UK " . the hon . Member be sacrifice the interest of those sell Scotch whisky and other high - quality scottish produce by start scare story about the importation of egg , which be not come to this country . he mention worker ’ right ; I have already say that there be a comprehensive labour chapter . the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill , make a constructive speech . he say that the deal be good for farmer , good for whisky and have a good digital chapter . he be right that we be do more trade deal — we be go far with Switzerland , Turkey , South Korea and other . he be right on the scale of the cptpp and growth . on pesticide , there be no change to our right to regulate or to our import standard . we set the maximum limit on pesticide — there be no change to that . the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham say that we already have deal with nine of the 11 member . well , it depend on what be in the deal . as I point out in response to the intervention from the hon . member for Liverpool , Walton ( Dan Carden ) , the exist deal with Mexico be very old — it go back more than 20 year . the CPTPP be a very modern deal . we can get a lot more do with a very modern deal than with a deal that be many decade old . she complain about the lack of parliamentary scrutiny . there have be two oral statement , 16 write ministerial statement , and Ministers and official have appear before five Select Committees to give evidence on the cptpp . that be a lot of parliamentary scrutiny over the year . on palm oil , the TAC say that it be unlikely that the CPTPP will lead to an increase in palm oil be grow on deforest land . we have have impact assessment galore , but I be happy to look at the public health assessment mention by the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington . finally , we hear a speech from the hon . member for Somerton and Frome ( Sarah Dyke ) , which be alarmist in its impact on farmer . the NFU support the agreement . she describe the " toxic tendril " of the deal , and even blame " insipid sandwich " on this Tory Government . there be many thing that I be not quite sure can be blame on any Government , and the quality of sandwich be go too far . she start verge into what sound a little like conspiracy theory . the Bill be the next step in the creation of the outward - look and internationalist UK that we envisage for our country ' s future . through the UK ' s accession to the CPTPP , the Government will place the UK at the centre of a modern , progressive and value - base partnership that span the Americas and Asia , and which other economy be queue up to join . it be the gateway to new business opportunity and great consumer choice benefit that will be feel in every corner of the UK . while the legislation may be narrow , it be crucial to the UK ' s ability to accede to the CPTPP . I therefore commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Thursday 22 February 2024 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Criminal Law that the draft Sentencing Act 2020 ( amendment of Schedule 21 ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 23 October 2023 , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Investigatory Powers that the draft Investigatory Powers Act 2016 ( remedial ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 18 October 2023 , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Rating and Valuation that the draft Local Government Finance Act 1988 ( prescription of Non - Domestic Rating Multipliers ) ( England ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 11 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Legal Services that the draft Legal Services Act 2007 ( Approved Regulator ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 23 October 2023 , in the last session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , dangerous drug that the draft Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 27 November 2023 , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . Public Accounts order , that Dan Carden be discharge from the Committee of Public Accounts and Ms Marie Rimmer be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Road Traffic death : Police Investigations Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Robert Largan . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to raise the important topic of police investigation into road traffic death . I do so this evening in support of and in tribute to my constituent George and Giulietta Galli - Atkinson , who have campaign tirelessly on road safety over the past 25 year . I first meet the Galli - Atkinsons shortly after I be elect as the Member of Parliament for Rugby in 2010 . the family have recently move from London to Rugby . they come to tell I about the award they have establish in memory of their daughter Livia , who be kill in a road traffic collision in 1998 . I remember our meeting very well . as we speak , I be strike by their strong commitment to make our road safe so that other family can be spare the tragedy they have have to bear . their daughter Livia be bear at Chase Farm Hospital in Enfield on 30 October 1981 . she be grow into a beautiful young woman — thoughtful , studious , hard - work , kind and with a clear understanding of right and wrong . her hobby include riding and ballet . she love " gone with the Wind " and have a dry sense of humour . on 12 January 1998 , when she be 16 year old , Livia leave home at 6 . 55 pm to walk to her Monday evening ballet class , which be due to take place at 7 . 15 pm on Windmill Hill in Enfield . as she be walk along the pavement lead to the studio , a car mount it and career into she , have first injure another pedestrian . Livia sadly die at the scene at 7 . 40 pm . at the time , George and Giulietta be completely unaware of what have happen . I remember George tell I how he have arrange to collect Livia after her class , and on his way there he see blue light flash . he speak of how the thought cross his mind that it must be sad that for the relative of the person be attend to by the emergency service . when the case come to trial and the driver be find guilty by unanimous verdict of the charge of cause death by dangerous driving on 6 November 1998 , I think everybody expect a custodial sentence . the judge , however , consider the case to be borderline with careless driving and accept the defendant ' s last - minute decision not to testify . the judge declare that there be no benefit in send the defendant to jail , as he have previously be of good character , and say nor would it serve justice . the defendant receive a £ 2 , 000 fine , 10 point on his licence and a five - year ban from drive . an appeal against this leniency be immediately lodge with the Attorney General by the family and the Crown Prosecution Service . as he do not consider the sentence to be unduly lenient , the Attorney General decline the appeal . in 2000 , the family take the Attorney General to judicial review on the ground of unreasonableness . the first attempt fail . at the second attempt , the High Court find that , for the purpose of the hearing , it have be an unduly lenient sentence , and that while the Attorney General have make an error of judgment in deny the appeal , he have not make an error of law . still disappoint , in 2002 the family turn to the European Court of Human Rights to test article 2 , 3 , 13 and 14 . again , Livia ' s case fail . all avenue in the criminal process have be exhaust , the family turn to civil redress and the civil case succeed . I understand that everyone who have read about Livia ' s case agree that the sentence be very light . the inspiration for an award in Livia ' s memory arise from the work of the three police officer in charge of the case , who be describe by George and Giulietta as " superlative " . at that time , there be no public accolade for traffic police officer . the award be establish by Livia ' s parent in gratitude to the road traffic officer who investigate Livia ' s case . George and Giulietta recognise that they fulfil the expectation of professional service and integrity , and they form the criterion and mandate for the Livia award . through their own experience , the family have , most admirably , turn their grief into something very positive . the Livia award for professionalism and service to justice have grow from an award that be first present in the Livia memorial garden as a memento of personal gratitude , into a milestone in the Metropolitan police ' s history and annual agenda . the Livia memorial garden in Enfield be open by the then hon . member for Enfield , Stephen Twigg , in October 1999 . the 100 square metre derelict site , adjacent to the pavement where Livia be kill , be transform into a haven for public use . Stephen remain closely involved with the Livia award to this day . the award have be endorse over the year by all the Prime Ministers since that time , from Tony Blair through to Gordon Brown , David Cameron , my right hon . friend the Member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) and Boris Johnson , along with every single Metropolitan Police Commissioner since 2000 , and , most especially and significantly , by the Metropolitan police ' s traffic command and its officer . the award be make annually to the Metropolitan police officer in the road and transport policing command , serious collision investigation unit who be judge to have provide the most meritorious service to road death investigation , either in a specific case or sustain through several investigation , or by provide the family of a road crash victim with outstanding service . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure the debate . he be make an incredibly powerful speech . have inquire about what go on behind the scene when investigate fatal road traffic collision follow a particularly tragic case in my constituency , I know that one thing that distress family be the length of time it take to investigate a collision and bring a case to court . West Yorkshire police do fantastic work and I pay tribute to they , as he be pay tribute to some of the officer he have reference . one challenge be that it take three year to train a forensic collision investigator . the challenge of get the capacity in those training course to train officer , so that there be enough incredibly talented and experienced officer to do this important work , be create some of those delay . do he share my thought that that be something for the Government to consider , so that the training can be undertake in a timely fashion to ensure that we have the right number of special investigator and we get justice for family who be hit the hard by these tragedy ? the hon . Lady make some important and pertinent point . I will go on to talk about the work of some of the officer I have hear about as a judge for the award . she be right to talk about the specialism of the role and the importance of effective training , and the time it take for officer to achieve that level of expertise . there be three criterion for the Livia award : service to justice when outstanding detective ability be display , professionalism when there be clearly excellence in the investigation , and service to the family of the victim . a 25th anniversary event be hold in November last year , and I be proud to have be ask to be a member of the judge panel in recent year . it be worth point out that throughout those 25 year , the panel have be independent of the Metropolitan police and , indeed , independent of George and Giulietta . it consist of professional and former professional include solicitor and barrister , a former court reporter for a major newspaper , former senior police officer and , usually , a Member of the House of Lords and a Member of Parliament . it be also significant that nomination be make by colleague of officer involve in the investigation of serious road transport collision . the nomination be initially in writing , and be follow by interview with those who be nominate . in read these account and hear from the nominee each year — this be relevant to what be say by the hon . member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) — I have be strike by the professionalism and service to justice that each of the candidate portray . I have read , and hear face - to - face , account from police officer who have have to attend the most harrowing incident . it be particularly interesting for I , as a provincial MP from a small town in the midland , to understand some of the challenge of police in a capital as large and sophisticated as London . often , the people who have to pick up the piece and bring family together be police officer , and I have hear a great deal from family liaison officer — a role that I have not hear of before my involvement with the Livia award . be a member of the panel have give I an insight into a world that I would not otherwise have see . I want to provide a flavour of the calibre of the candidate , and the kind of work that they have have to do , through a couple of case study . the first be the 2023 Livia award winner , Detective Constable Davina Nash , who have be the collision investigator for a serious injury collision that take place in Acton , London , in June 2021 . the collision result in potentially life - change injury to a two - and - a - half - year - old girl who be with her mother and brother , cross a major road show a green light at a pedestrian crossing . she be on a toy scooter when , despite the signal be red for traffic and a stream of stationary car wait for the signal to change , a moped rider approach the crossing at speed , overtook the stationary car and collide with the little girl , who be part of the way across the crossing . her injury be so severe that medical staff think she would die , or would be leave with a severe brain injury . as family liaison officer for the family , DC Nash have to pick up the piece . she carry out a meticulous and thorough investigation , and her work lead to a successful prosecution for cause serious injury by dangerous driving , drive while over the cannabis limit , and drive with no licence and no insurance . the judge impose the maximum sentence possible after a guilty plea reduction , which be 42 month ' imprisonment , and comment that the sentence be nowhere near high enough give the gravity of the little girl ' s injury . the second case study refer to the work of another 2023 award nominee , Police Constable Ed Raymond . on Sunday 10 July 2022 , a fatal road traffic collision occur in New Kent Road , Southwark . the 24 - year - old driver be unlicensed and at almost twice the drink - drive limit when the car that he be drive smash into a pedicab , throw the passenger from the vehicle and kill she . the driver of the rickshaw sustained life - change injury . PC Raymond be employ as a family liaison officer — such an important role — and he go to extraordinary length to support the victim ' s family . in this case , the defendant plead guilty to cause death by dangerous driving and a number of other offence , and be sentence to just over nine year in November 2022 . however , in the first case of its kind , the case be review by the Attorney General and an unduly lenient sentence appeal be hear at the Royal Courts of Justice in January 2023 . this be due to the change in sentence guideline for death by dangerous driving that come into force in June 2022 . the appeal result in the first state case and the sentence be increase by a third . the driver of the vehicle be now serve 12 year in prison . PC Raymond ' s role be to ensure that the victim ' s family be fully support throughout , and he be able to establish a very special relationship with they . a year on from the collision , he join the family in raise over £ 9 , 000 for various charity , one of which be Brake , which provide support for bereaved family who have lose love one in road traffic collision . I give those example as an illustration of the severity of the case that officer be have to deal with . George and Giulietta have not initiate these award over 25 year just for the sake of the award ; they have also fight tirelessly for more appropriate punishment for those find guilty of cause death by dangerous driving . on both front they have be incredibly successful . it have be an honour to work alongside the Galli - Atkinsons and to see how their energy and dedication to road safety have inspire and change the work of the police in this area . as a consequence of their pressure , there be now three specialist unit within the Metropolitan police : the road and transport policing command , the serious collision investigation unit and the forensic collision investigation unit . all be work tirelessly on the vision to achieve safe road and fair sentencing . the road and transport policing command be the large operational command unit in the Metropolitan police and , work in partnership with Transport for London , its focus be to deny criminal use of the road , and to reduce serious injury and road death within London . the road police team work 24 / 7 , 365 day a year , respond to serious and fatal collision and incident as well as target collision hotspot and educate road user . education be a theme that George and Giulietta have pick up . they have be involve with many successful campaign and programme as well as support road safety charity such as RoadPeace , Brake and Victim Support . I would like to refer particularly to Safe Drive stay alive , which George help to set up in Enfield in 2008 . positive feedback grow , and more and more London borough become interested in deliver that brand of road safety education to a range of people that it be important to influence , include learner driver in their sixth - form year . this programme , initiate by George , eventually cover 19 London borough , work in partnership with council , emergency service and the road police . as the local MP in Rugby , I be delighted that the programme be introduce in my constituency in 2017 — George and Giulietta have come up to the midland — when funding be provide by the Warwickshire chief constable . I have see that Safe Drive stay alive be a professional , high - impact and effective stage show . the objective of this road safety initiative be to show easily influence young people why , as young driver , they and their passenger be so vulnerable in their early year on the road , and to show they what they can do to reduce this vulnerability . I have absolutely no doubt that those message have save life . George have also be involve with Learn2Live in Hertfordshire — an initiative similar to Safe Drive stay alive that reach more than 7 , 000 student . he be subsequently ask by the Ministry of Defence in 2019 to be involve with its road safety initiative , survive the drive , in London and Surrey . over 25 year , George and Giulietta have contribute to countless public consultation on road safety legislation and enforcement , and their influence have bear fruit . in 2011 , the then Member for Enfield , Southgate , David Burrowes — who be a judge panel member for a number of year , and who work closely with George and Giulietta — successfully campaign for a change to dangerous driving legislation to increase the maximum sentence to five year . to this day , the couple be campaign tirelessly with member on both side of the House to ensure that the road safety investigation branch , promise by the Government , come to fruition . I be delighted to say that in 2023 , for the first time and after much campaigning in which George and Giulietta have be instrumental , the Home Office include road police in its strategic policing requirement , start at paragraph 166 : " road policing be responsible for the enforcement of traffic law , detection , deterrence and the response to illegal or dangerous activity on the road … road police capability play an essential role in tackle the use of the road network by terrorist threat and serious and organised criminal involve in county line drug transportation , modern slavery and human trafficking . they be also essential in manage incident cause by public disorder or civil emergency . " George and Giulietta be truly an inspiration , and their energy and commitment to road safety , fair sentencing and proper recognition of outstanding police officer in this area of policing deserve high recognition and praise . rugby be incredibly lucky to have two such people in our midst , and it have be my honour to have be invite to join Giulietta ' s work on the Livia award . I have find it inspirational , and deeply challenging , to learn about the work of road collision investigator . the role be sometimes overlook within the police service , but it be vital to the pursuit of justice for those affect by road traffic incident . the work that George and Giulietta have do to maintain the high profile of the Livia award throughout its 25 year have do much to highlight this valuable police role , and have recognise many police officer who have go above and beyond the call of duty in support family such as the Galli - Atkinsons . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( Mark Pawsey ) on secure this Adjournment debate . every road traffic death be a tragedy , and I strongly echo what he say about the impact on those affect . I join he in thank the police for the excellent work they do up and down the country every day to keep our road safe , and to respond to fatal and serious road traffic incident . these be often extraordinarily distressing incident , but it be the role of the police to investigate they in a clear - minded and thorough way . the investigation can often be complex and technical , but the public rightly expect the police to undertake they . I would like to convey my deep sympathy to my hon . friend ' s constituent , George and Giulietta Galli - Atkinson , for the tragic loss of their daughter Livia . I have be very moved , as I be sure we all have , by his description of the family ' s work since the tragic death of their daughter to try to bring some good out of an awful personal tragedy . I wish to put on record my sincere thank to George and Giulietta for the work they have do these past 25 year to promote and campaign for road traffic safety , include in establish and perpetuate the Livia award for professionalism and service to justice . as my hon . friend have say , it have play such an important role in highlight the work that collision investigator and family liaison officer do — in try to bring some answer follow tragedy and in look after the family in their hour of darkness as good they can . Police officer up and down the country show , on a daily basis , enormous commitment and dedication in respond to fatal road traffic incident , and it be right that their effort be recognise . again , I thank the Galli - Atkinsons for what they have do to support and promote this work , and to campaign for road safety . what they have do have truly make a difference over the past 25 year , as my hon . friend set out . they should be incredibly proud that they have show such courage , fortitude and determination to bring such good out of a terrible tragedy . of course , many family respond in that way . as a constituency Member of Parliament , and in my role as the Minister for Crime , Policing and Fire , I , like other member , often meet family whose life have be touch by tragedy ; and we find that often they do respond as the Galli - Atkinson family have , by try to bring some good out of their tragedy in order to help other people who find themselves in the same situation . it be important that we , as Members of Parliament and Ministers , listen carefully to what family who have have such terrible experience have to say , to make sure that we in Parliament and in Government can learn from they . I therefore repeat my thank to the Galli - Atkinson family for their campaigning , which do make , and have make , a difference ; their voice have absolutely be hear . let I make one or two more general remark about road safety , which be , of course , a priority for the Government . we continue to work to make our road safe . Britain ' s road be among the safe in the world , but we be not complacent . in 2022 , there be , sadly , 1 , 711 fatal road collision — each one a life cut short . we need to make sure we do everything we can to make our road safe and to tighten the law where it need to be tight . we need to do that to make sure , first , that accident be avoid and , secondly , that where a driver have be careless , dangerous or reckless , or have drive under the influence of drug or drink , they be bring to justice , that family can see justice be do , that there be a deterrent effect and that those sentence can be feel across society . although we have safe road compare with many other country , the work be certainly not do — there be more to do . by work with member from both side of the House — especially those whose constituent , like those of my hon . friend , have experience tragedy — and listen to they and to their experience , I know that we can do even more . all of we will work together to make sure that that happen . question put and agree to . House adjourn .