prayer the Clerk at the table have inform the House of the unavoidable absence of the Speaker , the Chairman of Ways and Means take the Chair as Deputy Speaker ( Standing Order no . 3 ) . oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Secretary of State be ask — Syrian Constitutional Declaration what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of the syrian constitutional declaration , sign on 13 March 2025 . we welcome the provision make in the constitutional declaration on freedom of expression , freedom of belief and woman ' s right . we also welcome the announcement on the formation of the new syrian Government . the UK stand ready to support an inclusive , stable and prosperous future for the people of Syria . we will continue to encourage inclusive governance and will work with the syrian Government to that end . I thank the Foreign Secretary for that reply . the fall of Assad be rightly welcome by all member of this House , but report of mass killing of Christians and Alawites , which have now result in more than 1 , 500 civilian death , show that Syria be still a very unstable country . will the Secretary of State therefore outline what support be be give to the new syrian Government to prevent further violence and another appalling refugee crisis ? I can assure my hon . friend that we be follow step closely . the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , will be meet civil society group today . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East ( Fabian Hamilton ) will know that we have allocate £ 160 million to support recovery and stability through lifesaving and other such assistance . clearly , the recent violence be incredibly horrific and alarming . we will continue to work with the new Government as good we can to ensure that we get the inclusive political transition that we all want to see . the Foreign Secretary will know that this be a five - year draft constitution . do he share my concern that the legislative , Executive and judicial separation of power in it need to be beef up ? the appointment of the new Government appear , prima facie , to be inclusive , but do he agree that the people ' s committee also need to be inclusive give that it will be mostly appoint by the President ? clearly , it be welcome that the new Government have move in this direction . I reassure the right hon . Gentleman that we recognise our skill in governance and in work with ally and partner , and we will use that strength to help to support the new Government . we be aware of his concern and we will work with the new Government to get that well separation that he want . UK - Mauritius Treaty : Chagos Islands whether any cost arise from the propose treaty with Mauritius on the sovereignty of the Chagos Islands will be meet by his Department . the UK - Mauritius treaty , which enable the continued operation of the base on Diego Garcia , be still subject to finalisation and signature . financial obligation arise from the agreement , include departmental budgetary responsibility , will be manage responsibly within the Government ' s fiscal framework , include through the upcoming spending review . oh dear , Madam Deputy Speaker , that be not the answer to the question that I ask . perhaps the Minister have bring the wrong file with he . my question be very simple and it be one to which the british people deserve an answer . the Government be plan to give away sovereign british territory along with billion of pound to Mauritius . the money be not refer to in the spring statement or in the Budget . where be it come from ? I have answer question on that matter a number of time in this House . this government will not scrimp on security . the base on Diego Garcia will be secure for ourselves and our ally . protect the british people and our ally be our no . 1 priority , and full detail will be provide in due course . I call the shadow Minister . the Government have finally admit to front - load payment to Mauritius for their surrender deal , cave in to Prime Minister Ramgoolam ' s demand since he take office in November . yet they still refuse to disclose the amount or clarify which budget will cover the lease , economic partnership and chagossian trust fund . why the secrecy ? will the Minister disclose the detail now ? will he also confirm whether the statement from the Prime Minister of Mauritius be correct in say that concession have be make , include the loss of sovereign right on Diego Garcia and of unilateral lease renewal provision ? when will this horrific deal finally come to Parliament , and what time will be provide to debate it ? or , well still , why do the Minister not dump the deal completely and keep Chagos british ? the hon . member neglect to remind the House that it be his Government who start negotiation on this matter , because they recognise that our national security interest and those of our ally be under threat . a financial element be crucial to protect the operation of that crucial base . once the treaty be sign , and after ratification in the usual way , it will be put before both Houses for scrutiny , and it will of course include cost . the Government will not scrimp on our security . protect the british people be our no . 1 priority . overseas estate : Urgent Repairs what step he be take with the Chancellor of the Exchequer to provide funding for urgent repair to his Department ' s overseas estate . the UK ' s diplomatic estate directly support the delivery of this Government ' s mission . maintenance of the diplomatic estate , with an emphasis on safety and security for staff and visitor , have be a core priority for the Department during ongoing discussion with the Treasury about the spending review . the maintenance and upkeep of the 6 , 000 property that constitute the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ' s overseas estate be estimate to cost £ 250 million a year . in recent year , that have be fund through the sale of asset . drawdown on the receipt of those sale be due to run out either this year or next , and the Department have previously make it clear that there be no more family silver to sell . my question to the Minister be this : what conversation have be have with the Treasury about a long - term sustainable funding model for the estate , and if the Treasury be not forthcoming with the money , what cut do the Department intend to make ? after the fire sale of asset by the former Government in 2010 , the fcdo have be focus on how to make good its estate . now that that money be exhausted , the fcdo have develop a new estate prioritisation tool to ensure that finite resource be target at place of great need and weight towards mitigate health and safety and security risk . European Union Force Bosnia and Herzegovina what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the UK ' s contribution to the European Union Force Bosnia and Herzegovina . the European Union Force in Bosnia and Herzegovina be key to maintain peace and security there . although the UK do not contribute to the mission , we be commit to support Bosnia and Herzegovina through NATO and our bilateral defence co - operation , and we be open to explore enhance co - operation with the EU , include through operation and mission as we strengthen the UK - EU security and defence relationship , include in the western Balkans . I thank the Minister for his answer . he will be aware that the Conservative Government previously withdraw from the eufor peacekeeping force — Operation Althea — in 2020 , follow their botched Brexit deal , let our ally down . will the Minister consider recommit british troop to Operation Althea , as other third country have , such as Turkey , to show our european ally that we want to work together and to demonstrate our continue focus on the region ? I think the hon . Member hear what I say a moment ago . we regularly engage with EUFOR and the EU delegation in Bosnia and Herzegovina . indeed , I co - convene a call with Quint member and EU institution on Friday with my french counterpart , and we be work closely on these very serious matter . we be also support security in Bosnia through our bilateral contribution , include our staff officer in the NATO HQ in Sarajevo . israeli settlement : West Bank what assessment he have make of the potential implication for his policy of israeli settlement in the west bank . israeli settlement be illegal under international law and harm the prospect of a two - state solution . on 21 March , the UN Security Council make clear that we oppose any attempt to expand settlement in the west bank . I have be very clear with israeli Ministers that they must clamp down on settler violence and end settler expansion . on Saturday night , the israeli Government announce the approval of an expand road network in the e1 corridor of the west bank with the stated aim of support the development of illegal israeli settlement in the area . that area be critical to the territorial integrity of a future palestinian state . previously , unified international pressure have restrain the israeli Government , so can the Foreign Secretary say how the Government be work with their ally to exert maximum influence on Israel in this matter ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . I condemn categorically the development of settlement that be illegal under international law . settlement do not offer security to Israel or to Palestinians . I also condemn call to annex the west bank , which would lead only to violence and jeopardise prospect for a palestinian state . I be clear with israeli counterpart that settlement expansion must stop . we will continue to work with our partner to ensure prospect for a palestinian state . we have hear Secretary of State after Secretary of State condemn the increase in settlement and settler violence in the west bank over the last 30 or 40 year and it have make not the slight bit of difference to their expansion . when will the Foreign Secretary accept that the only thing that the Israelis will respond to — we should not forget that these settlement be sponsor by the israeli state — be action ? when can we expect more sanction , particularly on violent settler and their organisation ? when can we expect a full trade ban on settlement produce ? in particular , will the Secretary of State consider proscribe those settler organisation that be perpetrate terrorism on an innocent palestinian population ? I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman . it be important that there be a cross - party position , and successive Ministers of both political party have condemn expansion and condemn violence . we continue to work with partner across Europe and beyond on these issue . I do not say that it be easy . he will know that I announce sanction back in October , and we continue to keep these issue under review , but the culture of impunity for those engage in violence be intolerable . I remember just a few month ago sit with Bedouins who have experience that violence and be be subject to that expansion — it be horrendous . that be why in both the UN and our dialogue with the israeli Government we be clear that that harm the prospect of peace and security for Israel ; it do not further its ambition . the scene come out of Palestine recently have be nothing short of shocking . hundred have be kill in settler violence in the west bank , the brutal torture of Palestinians in israeli custody be commonplace and the collapse of the ceasefire mean that the devastation and human suffering in Gaza have simply continue . will the Secretary of State confirm whether his Department have receive any evidence show that international law have be violate ? will he share such evidence and his assessment openly ? my hon . friend be right to raise this issue . she will know that , in a sober and measure way , the Government have to make our own decision on the export licensing regime , which be put in place by the last government , and we assess that there be a clear risk of a breach of international humanitarian law . therefore , we have suspend arm that could be use in Gaza . that be a decision that minister have make from this Dispatch Box under different government . early this year , I visit the west bank with colleague in the Chamber as part of a parliamentary delegation , where I see the awful israeli illegal violence in Hebron and Susya . we run into two israeli settler who clearly want we off the area that they have burn down . will the Foreign Secretary go far than he have in condemn that violence by agree to full sanction and an embargo on all israeli illegal settlement ? owe to the position of the City of London , that could have a profound impact and stop the violence . I should make it clear that settlement good do not benefit from any free trade arrangement that we have with Israel . obviously , on 15 October , I announce new sanction target three illegal settler outpost and four organisation that have support the sponsor violence against community in the west bank . Official Development Assistance : Refugee Costs what assessment he have make of the value for money of official development assistance spending on in - donor refugee cost . the Government be tackle the asylum backlog at record pace so that we can work towards end the use of hotel and ensure that more of our ODA budget be spend on our development priority globally . detailed decision on how the ODA budget will be allocate be be work through as part of the ongoing spending review . the british public increasingly feel that development aid have sadly lose its clarity of purpose . while I accept that there be multiple objective behind aid , and that of course lift the world ' s poor out of poverty have long be at the heart of the fcdo ' s mission , a reset in the social contract around development aid be clearly need . what consideration have the Minister give to shape development policy that explicitly address the upstream determinant of mass migration ? I agree with much of what my hon . friend have say . our development effort , as the Foreign Secretary have say , have never just be about the aid budget . peace and security , effective governance , access to private investment , remittance flow , efficient tax system and access to trade opportunity be all essential foundation for development . that require we to mobilise the full force of different resource and expertise across Government , our business and in university , science and beyond . do the Minister agree that rather than be use to meet in - donor refugee cost , the official development assistance budget should prioritise tackle extreme poverty ? it be now a year since the OECD development assistance committee ' s mid - term review , which show that the UK have only make good progress on two of the 10 recommendation since the 2020 peer review . what progress have the fcdo make over the last 12 month in well meet the committee ' s guidance ? the hon . Lady ask about important matter around spend on in - donor refugee cost . thank to the measure take by the Home Secretary to reduce the asylum backlog and work towards exit costly asylum hotel , we expect overall ODA spending on asylum to have be low in 2024 than in 2023 . there will always be some unpredictability , but we expect the action to continue reduce in - donor refugee cost in this Parliament . Official Development Assistance : infectious Diseases what assessment he have make of the potential impact of plan reduction to the official development assistance budget on effort to tackle infectious disease . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . decision on how ODA will be use will be consider as part of the ongoing spending review . reduce the overall size of the budget will necessarily have an impact on the scale and shape of our work . I can say , however , that our important work and support for Gavi be immunise 300 million child and save up to 8 million life , and our £ 1 billion pledge to the Global Fund for 2023 - 25 be support prevention and treatment for HIV , tuberculosis and malaria , and will help to save over 1 million life . I agree with the Minister on what he just say , but Gavi say that the change policy will mean that 37 . 9 million few child will be immunise , which mean that over five year , 600 , 000 will die . how on earth do he live with himself with that policy ? with the great of respect , the right hon . Gentleman will know my record on these important issue , have advocate for they over many year in this place and outside . I do not accept his characterisation . decision have not yet be take ; they be be take as part of the spending review . he will know that the UK be one of the large donor to Gavi . we have commit £ 1 . 65 billion in the current strategic period up to 2025 and that will make an important impact on child ' s live around the world . Gavi be create very much with the UK as a drive force . it be one of the proud achievement of the previous Labour Government . it have immunise almost 2 billion people in the world , and not only be it save life but it be important for job and work here in the UK in our fantastic life science sector . will the Minister give a commitment that we will continue to be a lead force in Gavi at the replenishment in June ? the Foreign Secretary have be discuss these important issue with the Health and Social Care Secretary . my hon . friend be right to point out the important role of Gavi , as well as our role in that . the decision will be set out in due course , but I hear what she and , indeed , other hon . and right hon . member be say on this important issue . I call the shadow Minister . it be very clear from Ministers ' answer that we still have no indication about which programme and where will be affect by the plan reduction to ODA and from when exactly the cut will be effective . we be tell to wait for the spending review , but many organisation , include those tackle infectious disease , be leave to face uncertainty and to work at risk . will the Minister tell we what instruction have be issue to his Department ' s humanitarian aid programme about what they be expect to do between now and the spending review in June ? we clearly have difficult decision to make , but the fcdo be not pause all ODA programming and not create a cliff edge in this year . we be focus on ensure that every pound will be spend in the most impactful way in the new context . that be a very difficult decision , as the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and I have set out . we will set out the detail in due course , but we be listen closely to member in this House and , indeed , to the many partner and stakeholder we work with on these important issue . West Papua Critical Minerals : Human Rights if he will amend the memorandum of understanding between Indonesia and the UK on a strategic partnership on critical mineral , publish on 29 November 2024 , to include condition on the protection of human right in West Papua . the memorandum of understanding — as you be aware , Madam Deputy Speaker , have sign off on it in 2024 — be an agreement to create a policy framework that promote good environmental , social and governance practice in critical mineral , mining and processing . I be able to visit Indonesia in January specifically to raise concern about human right in Papua with the senior Minister for human right . [ Official Report , 22 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 7wc . ] ( Correction ) in 2018 , President Joko Widodo promise the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights that he would be allow to visit West Papua . no visit have yet be facilitate by Indonesia , although two High Commissioners have be and go . without such a visit , it be impossible to assess the real human right situation . will the Minister ensure that the UK do not engage in critical mineral extraction in West Papua before such a visit take place ? the UK continue to support the visit by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and , through initiative such as the voluntary principle on security and human right , and the UK - Indonesia critical mineral MOU — sign off by you , Madam Deputy Speaker — the Government promote good practice on sustainability and respect for human right . [ Official Report , 22 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 7wc . ] ( Correction ) I be delighted to hear that the Minister have be raise human right concern with the Government of Indonesia about critical mineral . would she perhaps have a word with her colleague the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero about the human right concern over other critical mineral conversion in China ? it be go into a green energy economy that be suppose to have environmental , social and governance accord , yet somehow or other it fail on all of those : it fail because of its coal - power production , it fail because its product be make by socially undesirable slave labour — I hope she agree about that — and it fail on governance because there be no oversight . will she have those same conversation within her own government ? the right hon . Gentleman be quite right to raise those press concern , and all will be reveal when the China audit come forward with the specific on his question . Middle East what diplomatic step he be take to help advance peace in the middle east . what step he be take to help restore the ceasefire in Gaza . I be deeply concerned about the resumption of hostility in Gaza . the Foreign Secretary and I be press all party to return urgently to dialogue and to implement the ceasefire agreement in full . since the renew outbreak of hostility , the Foreign Secretary have speak to Secretary Rubio , israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Sa ' ar , EU High Representative Kallas and the UN emergency relief co - ordinator , Tom Fletcher . we have also be work with our french , german and italian partner in support of the arab plan for the reconstruction of Gaza as part of wide peace building effort . it be often say that action speak louder than word . the Government have repeatedly condemn what be happen in Gaza and the west bank , yet israeli settler violence , israeli settlement expansion , the unlawful demolition of palestinian home and violence in Gaza be continue . give that UK diplomatic effort and condemnation be be so roundly ignore , will the UK now take action and ban the importation of product from illegal settlement on illegally occupy land , to give the signal that Israel can not break international law with complete impunity ? the hon . Lady will know the importance that we have place on international law since we come to power in July . we have be clear throughout this period that we want to see a ceasefire in Gaza . we regret that , at this point , we be still in disagreement with the israeli Government , and we regret the scene of the last few week in relation to the west bank and to Gaza . in relation to settlement good , as the Foreign Secretary say early and as I have say before , different provision exist for illegal settlement , which we consider to be illegal and which do not benefit from any of the provision that would otherwise cover good from Israel . over the past week , I have be in touch with medical colleague on the ground in Gaza and also with representative of hostage family in Israel . in Gaza , they corroborate the worrying UN report of a shallow grave contain the body of 15 paramedic and rescue worker , seemingly shoot one by one by the israeli army , some of they still wear the surgical glove that they be use to save the life of other . in Israel , hostage family feel increasingly distant from their own government and abandon by they . Hamas be a terrorist organisation , but Israel be an ally . as a critical friend and ally , what further step can we take to reinforce our message that the israeli Government ' s current trajectory be destructive for peace and , indeed , for their own interest ? my hon . friend be right to ask this question . I know that he , himself a surgeon , have be closely engage with the medical situation in Gaza and the incredible bravery of those who provide that assistance . as I say in answer to the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , the scene in Gaza in relation to aid worker and , of course , the Gazan civilian themselves be absolutely horrific . it be why with France we call a special session of the UN Security Council on Friday , and we will continue to press with all diplomatic lever to see an improvement . what assessment have the Government make of report that Iran be consider pre - emptive strike against American B - 2 Spirit bomber that have recently be forward - locate in Diego Garcia ? as the House will understand , I will not provide a detailed commentary on that reporting , but we remain deeply conscious of the potential threat from Iran , both in this country and in the region . we continue to have dialogue with the iranian Government — the Foreign Secretary speak to his equivalent just last week . we treat these matter with the utmost seriousness , as the right hon . Member would expect . like many , I be extremely alarmed to hear the israeli Defence Minister , Israel Katz , threaten the " total destruction " of Gaza . the UK and its ally be commit to a two - state solution , but that only work if there be a state leave stand for Palestinians . will that Minister ever be sanction , and will our Minister set out what role he see the UK play in the long - term reconstruction of Gaza ? I thank my hon . friend for her question ; I know how attentive to these issue she have be . the Foreign Secretary have condemn in this Chamber the comment of Defence Minister Katz , and this Government be clear what the path to reconstruction in Gaza must be . we have engage closely with our partner in the arab world , we welcome their plan for reconstruct Gaza , and we will continue to do all we can to see that as the path to reconstruction , with dignity for the palestinian people of Gaza . today be the anniversary of the killing of the 33 - year - old ex - Royal Marine James Henderson , who be kill by the Israelis among seven aid worker with the World Central Kitchen . a year later , as the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) have mention , mass grave have be find with eight body of those who work for the Red Crescent and the Red Cross . that come two week after eight aid worker from the Al - Khair Foundation be kill . it be believe that 1 , 500 aid worker have be kill . do the Minister believe that it be illegal under international law to kill aid worker and , if so , what be he prepare to do about it ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give I the opportunity to comment . today be indeed the one - year anniversary of the appalling strike on the World Central Kitchen convoy , which kill seven people , include british citizen John Chapman , James Henderson and James Kirby . I would like to pay tribute to their bravery and remember again the appalling tragedy of that day . I , alongside the Foreign Secretary , meet their family in November . they be determined to see justice for their family member , and I know that the whole Chamber will be unite in that determination . Israel ' s Military Advocate General must quickly and thoroughly conclude their consideration of the strike , include determine whether criminal proceeding should be initiate . as the hon . Gentleman have say , Gaza be now the most dangerous place in the world to be an aid worker . this can not continue . as other have say , today be the anniversary of the death of James Kirby , John Chapman and James Henderson — three former servicemen . we far hear about the 15 aid worker who be kill last week . UN Under - Secretary - General Tom Fletcher have describe they as have be kill one by one and bury in shallow grave alongside their clearly mark ambulance , fire truck and UN vehicle . I thank the Government for call a UN Security Council meeting on the protection of aid worker . will the Minister update we on the outcome of that meeting and the further step we will take to protect aid worker in Gaza ? the meeting on Friday consider those question . there be agreement across the Security Council on the importance of preserve the space for humanitarian action . as I have say this morning , we regret deeply that there have not yet be further improvement , and we will continue to use all available diplomatic step to ensure that aid get into Gaza , aid worker be protect , and the horrific scene describe by the emergency relief co - ordinator be not repeat . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . our thought continue to be with the hostage hold in Hamas captivity in Gaza and with their family . what recent contact have the Minister have with counterpart in Israel , America and our partner in the region to secure their release and broker a way through this impasse ? what step be be take across Government to address the threat to stability pose by Iran ? how do the Minister envisage the removal of Hamas from the governance of Gaza ? on the shadow Foreign Secretary ' s important first point , we be , as she would expect , in regular contact with all those involve in negotiation . the Foreign Secretary speak to the israeli Foreign Minister last week . I have be in regular contact with the Qataris , who be do important work in this file . as she would expect , we continue to be in touch with the hostage family , whose concern I know the Chamber continue to share . on the threat pose by Iran , we speak to the relevant player in the region and to the E3 . as I say in response to an early question , the Foreign Secretary speak to the iranian Foreign Minister last week and underline that we continue to support a diplomatic resolution to the tension with Iran . we do not want to see Iran secure a nuclear weapon . we believe that a diplomatic solution be the good way to achieve that , but we will hold the snap - back of sanction , and indeed many other measure , under review until we be satisfied . support for Ukraine what step he be take to support Ukraine . what step his Department be take to support Ukraine . the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be lead international effort to keep up the pressure on Russia through more than 2 , 200 sanction , which have help to reduce Russia ' s oil revenue by 25 % between January and November 2024 compare with two year prior . we be of course also work hard to co - ordinate ally . just yesterday I be in Madrid discuss these issue with european counterpart , and later this week I will be at the NATO Foreign Ministers conference , where the Ukrainians will be as well . I be incredibly proud that , since the onset of Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine , Wrexham have welcome many ukrainian family . among they be yaroslav and Oksana , who have long dream of open a caf é in their home town of Chortkiv . despite the war prevent they from realise that dream at home , they now own a thriving business on Wrexham High Street . how be the Government continue to support ukrainian family who play a big part in community across Britain , as well as those who , at some point in the future , may wish to return to Ukraine when the situation allow ? I be proud that the british people across our country have open their home and their heart to Ukrainians flee Russia ' s brutal war . the Homes for Ukraine scheme have help more than 160 , 000 Ukrainians to find refuge here , and since 4 February , ukrainian refugee can apply to remain for an additional 18 month while continue to receive vital support . as the Foreign Secretary know , we have substantial engagement with , and deployment to , Estonia . talk of peace in Ukraine be of course welcome and Britain should play its role in support that peace , but do he accept that any deployment of british troop to Ukraine increase the risk to the UK and its force in Estonia ? the hon . Gentleman should know that the UK ' s commitment to the security of Estonia be iron - clothe , and make real by our NATO forward land force deployment . discussion regard how our military can support Ukraine ' s future security arrangement be ongoing , include with NATO ally and Secretary - General Rutte . part of the discussion for country commit to the coalition of the willing be about ensure that those country on the frontline be not leave without adequate support . the hon . Gentleman raise a very important issue . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . the whole House continue to stand united with the people of Ukraine in their existential struggle . although there have be much coverage of tentative step towards a Black sea ceasefire , do the Foreign Secretary agree that , with the brutal war rage on land , we must continue to constrain Putin ' s war machine with every tool at our disposal ? could he update we on his plan for do so beyond sanction ? do he agree that the onus remain squarely on Putin to prove whether he be in any way serious about the kind of lasting and just peace that President Zelensky want to see ? the right hon . Lady should know that , with EU colleague yesterday , at the G7 a few week ago and , I be sure , with colleague as I head to NATO , we be discuss an oil cap in particular and how that would limit Putin ' s reserve . we continue to discuss not just the freezing of asset but the seizing of asset . we recognise that some european colleague be more exposed than we in the UK be . nevertheless , why should we use taxpayer ' money ? we should use russian money that have cause so much damage in Ukraine . of course , we continue to look at the arsenal of sanction that we can use , and I be sure that I will have more to say on that in the come week . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . of all the horror that Vladimir Putin have inflict on Ukraine , the abduction of more than 20 , 000 ukrainian child be one of the most vile . it threaten to rob Ukraine of its future , which be surely Putin ' s ultimate goal . the Prime Minister praise the work of Kyiv ' s Bring Kids back initiative last week . will the Foreign Secretary now commit to the UK fill the funding gap leave by the Trump Administration ' s withdrawal of funding for Yale ' s humanitarian research lab , so that it can continue to research Russia ' s war crime , especially to track the whereabouts of these child , so that they can be bring back home ? it be important for I to meet Madam Zelensky to discuss this issue when I be last in Ukraine . the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , also meet the relevant Minister in Ukraine to discuss this issue just a few day ago . I can absolutely give an undertaking to continue to support the group . it be not our assessment that we can meet the shortfall leave by the withdrawal of USAID — United States Agency for International Development — funding , but we will continue to work with partner across Europe on this important issue , which be very personal to I . Gaza : aid what diplomatic step he be take to help ensure that Israel allow aid into Gaza . aid should never be use as a political tool . as the Foreign Secretary make clear to the House on 20 March , block humanitarian aid into Gaza be appalling and unacceptable . Israel must allow aid into Gaza immediately . the Foreign Secretary make that clear to israeli Foreign Minister Sa ' ar on 21 March and issue a joint statement with his french and german counterpart on 5 March . Gaza be the deadly place in the world to be an aid worker . More than 400 aid worker have be kill in the conflict . restore the ceasefire remain the good chance to see hostage release , allow a surge of humanitarian aid and bring this bloodshed to an end . it be clear from the Chamber this morning that we all despair at the recent breakdown of the ceasefire agreement , the resumption of hostility and the blockade of aid into Gaza . we now have warning of an unprecedented humanitarian disaster in the Gaza strip , which be hard to imagine after what we have already see there . the Minister mention the conversation that have be have with Israel . first , can he assure I that we be make it clear that the only way we will achieve a last peace be through a two - state solution , which will not achieve by subject people to such hardship ? secondly , what conversation be ongoing with ally about restore aid drop directly into Gaza ? I can confirm that we say regularly to our israeli counterpart , and indeed to all other in the region , that the only route out of these horror be a two - state solution , an outcome that provide for the safety , security and dignity of both people . we be talk with our partner about what might be do to try to ensure aid get into Gaza through whatever mean be at our disposal , but at the core , Israel must relax the restriction and allow aid into Gaza . that be the way to get the scale of aid that be require into the strip . during the ceasefire , we see a massive increase in aid , and that be what we want to do . with continued aerial bombardment impact the flow of aid into Gaza , will the Foreign Secretary confirm whether UK - make F - 35 part have be use to enable air strike in Gaza since 18 March ? to clarify my previous answer , the Foreign Secretary speak to Foreign Minister Sa ' ar on 5 March , not 21 March . in response to the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) , we will continue to press these issue with the israeli Government . it be clear to the House that we have not succeed , over these long month , in ensure the level of aid into Gaza that we would like to see , or have the protection for humanitarian worker that we want to see . deconfliction , with humanitarian aid worker , be a vital part of ensure their security , and we be press the Israelis to do so . right of Self - Determination what step he be take to increase the understanding of and respect for the right to self - determination globally . the United Kingdom be commit to promote and protect human right and the rule of law , and the right to self - determination be set out in the international covenant on civil and political right . some 700 , 000 people in Washington DC be currently disenfranchised because their representative in the Senate and the House of Representatives do not have vote right or full control of local government affair . it be the equivalent of everyone in Bedfordshire vote for mps who have no chance of go through the voting Lobby . do the Minister agree that that be a particularly strange anomaly ? this be not a matter for we . the United States be a sovereign , democratic nation , and the issue of voting right in the District of Columbia be a matter for the United States . in the interest of self - determination , will the Foreign Secretary take the early opportunity to remind his opposite number in the United States that Canada have choose to be a member state of the Commonwealth , that the Head of the Commonwealth and the Head of State of Canada be his Majesty King Charles , and that there be no prospect whatsoever of Canada be annex by the United States ? Canada be a strong friend and Commonwealth ally . it be a NATO ally and a fellow G7 member . I have strong tie with Canada myself , as the right hon . Gentleman might know . I be delighted to reiterate our friendship when I meet my ministerial counterpart the other week ; Prime Minister Carney , the new canadian Prime Minister , be welcome by the Prime Minister ; and in recent week , the Foreign Secretary have be meet with his counterpart . we continue to work strongly with Canada on many global issue . israeli Military Presence : West Bank what discussion he have have with his israeli counterpart on that country ' s military presence in the west bank . we be concern at the expansion of the Government of Israel ' s war aim and operation in the west bank . I make clear my serious concern on the continue israeli operation when I speak to the israeli Foreign Minister Gideon Sa ' ar on 5 March , as the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Mr Falconer ) , say , but also on 21 March . we be clear that civilian must be protect and the destruction of civilian infrastructure minimise . it emerge today that a 17 - year - old palestinian boy who have be take from the west bank have die in israeli detention , have be hold for 6 month without charge . Israel have be strike inside the west bank , and in do so embolden illegal settler in their own violence . give that Israel claim that it be target Hamas and not the people of Palestine itself , what specific action be the Foreign Secretary take to protect Palestinians in the west bank from both settler violence and israeli force ? the hon . Lady will know that we be give considerable support to the Palestinian Authority in the west bank . we be in regular contact with President Abbas and Prime Minister Mustafa in relation to the west bank . she have hear our concern about both the violence and the expansion that be take place in the west bank . in my conversation with Ministers , I have hear legitimate concern about security on the israeli side and the way that Iran , sit behind the scene , be equip some terrorist group with gun and ammunition . we have to do our good to support Israel in stand up to that . the Prime Minister ' s commitment to host an international meeting this year in support of an international fund for israeli - palestinian peace have never be more timely . give the upcoming June summit in Paris in support of a two - state solution , can the Foreign Secretary provide for the House an update on progress towards meet the Prime Minister ' s pledge ? we be very grateful for the work that our french colleague be do in this regard , and we be work closely with they . we be put together a plan , and I hope that the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln , will be able to update the House in the come week . Armenia and Azerbaijan : Peace Negotiations what recent discussion he have have with his armenian and Azerbaijani counterpart on peace negotiation between those two country . I thank my hon . friend for that important question . the Foreign Secretary speak with his azerbaijani and armenian counterpart on 19 and 21 March respectively , and I have also be in contact with representative of both country . we warmly welcome the progress make by both side on conclude negotiation on the text of a peace agreement , and we urge they both to sign that agreement as soon as possible . we encourage all side to refrain from rhetoric or action that undermine the prospect for peace . this be clearly a critical time for peace in the region . the offensive by Azerbaijan in Nagorno - Karabakh result in the forced displacement of up to 120 , 000 Armenians and the continued detention of 23 official and civilian . there be much concern about the conduct of the trial , their welfare and their access to legal support , so what more can the Minister do to put pressure on the Government of Azerbaijan to look for their release and to get access to the prisoner ? I thank my hon . friend for her important work on these issue . the UK have consistently call for the release of all the remain prisoner of war . we continue to urge the Azerbaijani authority to ensure that those detain during the long - stand conflict with Armenia be afford a fair trial and provide safe condition . I raise that specifically with the azerbaijani President ' s special representative in October , and we continue to engage with they on this issue . yesterday be the anniversary of the attempt genocide of the Azerbaijani people by the Armenians , and I be sure the whole House will issue its condolence for that purpose . in the newly liberate territory of Nagorno - Karabakh , hundred of mine be still be clear by hand . what action will the Government offer to support Azerbaijan in remove those mine so that the land can be use for beneficial purpose ? the hon . Gentleman rightly raise the issue of mine . he will know the important role that this country have play in de - mining effort around the world . I be very happy to write to he with the detail of where we be on that in relation to Azerbaijan , and we have discuss that with they on a number of occasion . the most important thing be that we continue to work towards the signing of that peace agreement between Azerbaijan and Armenia so that the people of those two country , with which we have strong relationship , can live in peace and harmony alongside one another . Mauritius Treaty : Chagos Islands when he plan to present to Parliament the propose treaty with Mauritius on the sovereignty of the Chagos island . when he plan to present to Parliament the propose treaty with Mauritius on the sovereignty of the Chagos island . as we and Mauritius have repeatedly say , include in joint statement on 20 December and 13 January , both side remain committed to conclude a deal on the future of the Chagos archipelago that protect the long - term effective operation of the joint UK - US base on Diego Garcia . once the treaty be sign , it will be put to Parliament for scrutiny before ratification in the usual way . give that there be no bind legal basis for the ceding of the Chagos island and that the deal will cost the hard - press british taxpayer north of £ 9 billion , £ 18 billion or possibly £ 50 billion a year , will the Secretary of State confirm what total financial liability will be bring to the UK and whether they will be fund from the uplift in the defence budget announce in the spring statement ? I have answer those question on a number of occasion , include early . I have be very clear that a financial element be crucial to protect the operation of such a vital base for our security and for the security of our ally . once the treaty be sign , it will be put before the Houses for scrutiny before ratification in the usual way , and that will include cost . we will not scrimp on security : protect our interest and those of our ally be the most important thing . politic be about choice , and the speculation about how much the Government want to hand over to Mauritius start at £ 9 billion . that money would go a long way as official development assistance , so do the Minister regret that choice ? as I have say , a financial element — let we remember that this be over 99 year — be crucial to protect the operation of the base . if we do not pay for our security , somebody else might attempt to get in there . that be one crucial reason we have work closely with Mauritius , the United States and other ally and partner , include India , to protect our base on Diego Garcia . it be a sell - out . I can hear the chuntering from the shadow Minister , but it be simply not correct — we be protect Diego Garcia , our interest there and our national security . I be afraid that I simply do not accept what he be say , and of course , if there be not a problem , why do his Government start the negotiation in the first place ? Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . yesterday in Madrid , I discuss with counterpart strengthen Ukraine ' s hand . with Mr Speaker in Kyiv yesterday , the House be unite on Ukraine . one year on from the appalling Israel Defence Forces strike on the World Central Kitchen convoy that kill James Kirby , John Chapman and James Henderson , I be sure that the whole House mourn their loss and call for accountability . we will keep demand protection for all civilian and aid worker in Gaza , and will strive to restore the ceasefire , free hostage and end the war . research publish by UNICEF show that last time the overseas aid budget be cut , support for child — for their education and nutrition — be cut the deep . will the Foreign Secretary give assurance to this House that this time , child will not bear the brunt of his cut , and will he commit to protect child - focus development programme ? the last time that the development budget be cut , it be cut overnight . the Government abolish the Department for International Development , lead to terrible cliff edge and badly damage our reputation in the world . we be not throw the money that we have have to withdraw from development into a black hole , as the last Government do ; we be invest in hard power . the hon . Lady will recognise that the war in Ukraine have cost the continent of Africa upwards of £ 7 billion . for that reason , it be important that we invest in hard power and diplomacy , and that we continue to invest in development . we will still be the sixth big development partner . the co - operative movement have a long and proud history of help to rebuild local economy post - conflict . in this UN International Year of Co - Operatives , will the Minister agree to meet I and representative of the co - operative movement to discuss the way in which government can promote co - operation as a solution on the global stage ? I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend and his colleague , not least as a Co - operative MP . I have see the important work that co - operative do around the world , and we continue to support they , include by fund the global agriculture and food security programme , which have a dedicated support facility for smallholder producer organisation . we regularly meet those who be involve in co - operative solution on a range of matter , so I would be delighted to discuss those matter with my hon . friend and other colleague . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . last month , the Foreign Secretary give a speech on trade , but could not explain how much growth would follow the measure he announce , if any . what role be the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office actually play in support the trade negotiation with the United States ? what discussion have the Foreign Secretary personally undertake about the trade agreement , and can he confirm that this will be the comprehensive trade deal that the Conservative Government be negotiate ? no , because the Conservative Government badly fail in their negotiation with the US . we be engage in intense conversation at this time to strike an economic agreement , and we be also continue discussion with our indian counterpart about a trade deal and with the Gulf , pick up from the last government ' s failure to land the trade deal that will deliver growth to this country . in come into the Foreign Office , it have be essential that I position it as the international delivery arm for growth — all our mission recognise this . I have announce measure that include work much more closely with business — measure that should have be introduce under the last government . we know that the Labour Government continue to cosy up to the Chinese Communist party because they be desperately seek growth . [ interruption . ] Labour member might want to listen . the Government be unwilling to stop solar panel make by Uyghur slave labour come into the UK ; they be unable to stop China put bounty on the head of Hongkongers live here ; and they be fail to put China on the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme . can the Foreign Secretary explain how our economic and security interest be be serve by the Labour Government ' s allege reset with the CCP Government ? the right hon . Lady use the phrase CCP almost as if to suggest that I be some sort of communist . the last Government have 17 different approach to China . they bounce around so much — there be the Iain Duncan Smith position , the Rishi Sunak position and the Liz Truss position — that we lose count of how many position they take . we have be clear that there be area where we will co - operate with China , area where we will challenge China and area where we must necessarily compete . it be right that we engage with China . close our ear and pretend they be not there be no strategy . that be why the Government have change from the strategy of the last government . order . the Foreign Secretary do not need to be remind that we reference sit member not by their name , but by their constituency . as have already be mention in the Chamber this morning , a year ago today , my constituent , John Chapman , be murder by the Israel Defence Forces while work for World Central Kitchen , deliver humanitarian aid in Gaza . his family now want to know when the israeli Government will bring criminal charge against the perpetrator , when the family will be award compensation for their tragic loss , and what our Government be do to ensure that justice prevail . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for that question . last month , I press Foreign Minister Sa ' ar to conclude the Military Advocate General ' s consideration of the World Central Kitchen incident , include determine whether criminal proceeding should be initiate . I have meet the family of those kill in the attack and assure they that this Government will continue to support their call for justice . Gaza be the most dangerous place in the world to be an aid worker , with more than 400 kill since the start of this conflict . we need to see last safety improvement for aid worker on the ground , and that would be a fitting legacy for those british individual who have lose their life . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . my constituent who work at the BMW Mini plant in Cowley be deeply concerned by the impact of Donald Trump ' s global tariff war . the uncertainty the plant face be make much bad by the red tape that now inhibit integrate car production with supplier in the EU . do the Foreign Secretary agree that , in addition to a robust response to the White House , the good step that the Government could take to support british business would be to start talk on a bespoke UK - EU custom union without delay ? we be an open trading nation , as we have be under successive government . it be hugely important at this time that we continue the intense conversation we be have with the US Administration on get an economic agreement . of course we prepare for the bad — all option remain on the table , as the Prime Minister indicate again just yesterday — but it be also right that the Business Secretary and I , and other across Government , continue to engage with business and industry so that we can give they the good support in what will be a turbulent economic time , not just for our own country , but across much of the world . rise — order . topical question must be keep short , otherwise there will be many disappointed colleague . give the recent decline in the number of international student come to the UK , what measure be the Minister take , along with colleague from other Departments , to ensure that university such as Stirling , which have long benefit from diverse international student population , remain attractive and accessible to prospective student from abroad ? our strong knowledge economy be one of our good export , and each Minister on the Front Bench make sure to promote learning in the UK and learn in people ' s home city , when our university have a presence , and we will continue to do so . I call the Father of the House , Sir Edward Leigh . I be a simple soul , so I trust the Foreign Secretary completely . will he assure I that nothing in the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill , which we be debate only this afternoon , will in any way nullify Brexit by limit our ability to make our own decision on regulation and to conduct our own free trade deal ? above all , as a great british patriot , will he assure I that nothing in the Bill will allow any Minister to ever abolish that most glorious of british symbol : the great british pint ? I assure the right hon . Gentleman that the british pint be safe under this government , but I will write to he about the detail in the come day . what discussion be take place with China about Jingye , the chinese owner of British Steel , which last week reject a generous offer from the Government to put the industry on a stable footing ? do the Foreign Secretary agree that , give the importance of this strategic industry , Jingye should return to the table and agree a deal , and that if it will not do so , we ought to step in to ensure that british steel be make in Britain ? I have regular conversation with the Business Secretary . as the Minister for Industry make clear on Thursday , this Government believe in the UK steel sector . we have prioritise engagement with British Steel , and have make a generous conditional offer of financial support . we remain in negotiation with the company and trade union to secure the good possible outcome . what further information do the Foreign Secretary have that lead he to make a decision that differ from the detailed objection of the police , the security service and our ally , and to support the new chinese super - embassy ? will he share that information with the House ? the hon . Gentleman must have miss the letter that the Home Secretary and I , quite properly , write to the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , who , act in her quasi - judicial capacity , have a decision to make . we be clear about the fact that security interest be paramount , and we make our view very plain so that they could be consider . last Monday , 24 March , another two journalist be kill in Gaza . More than 200 journalist have be kill there since 7 October 2023 . in addition , last week see the arrest of both BBC and swedish journalist , as well as many local journalist cover the unrest in Turkey . what be the Government do to protect the role of journalist — regardless of nationality — who be showcase what be go on in conflict zone ? whether in Gaza , Turkey or elsewhere , it be essential for journalist to be able to do their job . we be incredibly proud of the BBC and all the other UK outlet overseas that play a vital role in hold power to account , and we will continue to support they . fifty - nine israeli hostage be be hold by Hamas in Gaza , have be kidnap in the Hamas terrorist attack of 7 October 2023 . only 24 be think to be still alive , and we know from release hostage that they have be starve and torture , chain in tunnel . they have not see sunlight for 543 day . what be the UK Government do to bring they home ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise this important issue . all those hostage need to come home , which be why we need to get back to the ceasefire and why we must continue to stand with hostage family . let I reassure the hon . Lady : I speak to the United States envoy , Steve Witkoff , on Friday evening to obtain an update on the conversation that be take place , and Egypt and Qatar be play an important role in get back to that ceasefire and get Hamas to do what they should do . it be interesting to see Palestinians take to the street to campaign against Hamas and the way in which that they be hold the palestinian people ransom at this time . HIV / AIDS have kill 40 million people across the world and remain a major threat to public health , but over the weekend the House Foreign Affairs Committee Majority account post a gloating , sicken tweet include an image of the coffin represent the closure of USAID , which , accord to expert , will lead to a tenfold increase in the number of death from HIV / AIDS . will the Minister reaffirm that notwithstanding the recklessness of the Trump Administration , this Government remain committed to work to end AIDS as a public health threat by 2030 ? obviously , usaid be a matter for the US Government . however , I absolutely assure my hon . friend that we be committed to the 2030 target . he will know , from my long time campaign on these issue , of the importance that I , and indeed the Foreign Secretary , place on this issue . when it come to global public health , we know that nobody win unless everybody win , and that an infectious disease elsewhere on the planet can affect we here as well . what step be the Department take to secure funding for overseas development project involve disease that will specifically be a risk to the UK , include in relation to antimicrobial resistance ? the hon . Gentleman make important point . he will know that we make important contribution to the Global Fund and other body on global health . we remain committed to global health as part of our development spending , even despite the difficult decision we be have to make , and I hear what he have to say . More than half the country that have submit UN biodiversity plan have not yet release plan for how they will protect 30 % of land and sea for nature , despite agree to do so at COP15 . what step be the Government take to ensure more country develop plan to protect at least 30 % of land and sea ? the Government remain strongly committed to tackle the international climate and nature crisis . the UK play a key role at the COP16 biodiversity conference , and we be work closely with a wide range of partner to build global ambition on nature ahead of London Climate Action Week in June and COP30 in Brazil . in February , the Foreign Secretary rightly criticise America ' s aid cut . two week later , he be humiliate by his own Prime Minister when his departmental budget be smash to bit . what be he do to re - establish his and his Department ' s credibility on the world stage , so we can once again have genuine influence internationally ? I say to the right hon . Gentleman that this Government have not make an ideological decision to cut aid , and he know that . there be other government around the world make ideological decision to cut aid . this government do not make the decision that the last Government make to switch off aid overnight . we be ensure that there be no cliff edge . he will know — and I know he know this — that invest in hard power also save life and act as a deterrence in our own country and across much of the world . last week , BBC reporter Mark Lowen be arrest and deport from Turkey after cover the ongoing protest movement , as part of a broad crackdown on journalist . this follow the arrest of President Erdo ğ an ' s lead political rival . will the Foreign Secretary commit to convey the concern of this House to his turkish counterpart at the early opportunity ? the UK be a staunch supporter of democracy , the rule of law and medium freedom . the Government have raise recent event in Turkey with our counterpart at a number of level . most recently , on 29 March I speak to my turkish counterpart , Hakan Fidan , to raise our expectation that Turkey uphold its international commitment and the rule of law , and that it protect the fundamental right to free speech , peaceful assembly and medium freedom , include in the treatment of british journalist report there . be the British Government go to act , as the french and american government have do , to support Morocco ' s autonomy plan for western Sahara ? we continue to have discussion with our moroccan friend . this be a complex issue . the position remain the position we have under the last Government . of course , we keep that under review as we continue to discuss these issue in the region . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . the Foreign Secretary have say repeatedly that the UK should move from freeze to seize russian state asset , although I be still wait to hear what proportion of those be in the UK . meanwhile , € 300 billion sit in the EU . when peace eventually come , the rebuilding of Ukraine will need to be pay for by the Russians , so those frozen billion will be key . when I be at a security conference in Poland last week , everyone seem to agree that these asset need to be seize . I ask the Foreign Secretary again : what be the remain barrier to seize those asset , and what concrete step be he take to ensure that he can bring our ally with we ? I be very grateful to my right hon . friend for raise this issue . it be a complex issue , and one on which it be good to act in concert with our close ally , recognise that ally in Belgium , Germany and other country in Europe be more exposed than we be . we continue to work at pace with our ally . this be an item I discuss yesterday in Madrid with the Weimar + group , particularly with our polish , french and spanish colleague , and I be sure it will be an item discuss at the NATO Foreign Ministers meeting later this week . in the light of the Prime Minister ' s announcement of the impending official development assistance cut , how will the UK Government be a global leader on water security and climate - affect community , to adapt and build wash — water , sanitation and hygiene — system that be resilient to climate change ? I thank the hon . member for point out the importance of those issue ; he know the UK have a strong record on they . obviously , all decision on future ODA spending will be discuss as part of the ongoing resource allocation in the spending review , but I note what he say . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . on 23 March in Gaza , eight medic in the Palestinian Red Crescent , five responder from the civil defence and a UN staff member be kill by the IDF while respond to casualty . their body have be return today . international humanitarian law be clear : medical personnel , ambulance , humanitarian relief worker and civil defence organisation must be respect and protect . international humanitarian law be not something for debate . the Foreign Secretary understand the importance of uphold the law and hold to account all who breach it , include our friend , so why be Israel seemingly allow to act with impunity when it come to the protection of medics , humanitarian worker and civilian ? on this day , the one - year anniversary of the World Central Kitchen incident , I want to be clear that nobody have impunity and that we expect full legal process to be follow , include in Israel . the Foreign Secretary and I have both speak about the important role the Military Advocate General will play in that . on my hon . friend ' s wide question , it be clearly deeply problematic that deconfliction do not exist in Gaza and that aid worker continue to be in such peril , as she describe . we will continue to use all method at our disposal to try to improve the situation . on 17 March , the Foreign Secretary tell the House that there have be " a breach of international law " by Israel in blockade aid get into Gaza . — [ Official Report , 17 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 41 . ] if he take international law seriously , will he tell we what sanction be in place as a result of that ? we have announce to this House a series of sanction in relation to the risk of breach in relation to the attack on aid worker , which I have cover a number of time in this session . [ interruption . ] I be sure the Minister can follow up in writing . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . after much chasing in October last year , the Foreign Secretary commit to give oral evidence to my International Development Committee early in the new year . he have not do so to date and we do not have a date in the diary , despite repeat request from my Committee team . can you advise I on how I can encourage the Foreign Secretary to give evidence ? much be go on in the world that we need to discuss . I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . the Chair be not responsible for ministerial appearance before Select Committees , but I can see that the Foreign Secretary be keen to respond . no doubt he will have a positive response to her point of order right now . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I just remind the House that I appear before the Foreign Affairs Committee on 4 December and I will be appear in front of the House of Lords International Relations and Defence Committee on 30 May . we have make change to development , as have be discuss in the House this afternoon . my right hon . friend Baroness Chapman will be appear before the International Development Committee on 13 May . of course I will appear again before the Foreign Affairs Committee and in front of my hon . friend ' s Committee in due course . I hope to do that by the end of the summer or in the September recess period . NHS Pensions ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care if he will make a statement on NHS pension in the light of the statutory deadline for both remediable service statement and remediable pension saving statement be miss . I thank the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) for ask this question , which give I the opportunity to provide further information follow the write parliamentary statement that I issue yesterday to update the House on the delivery of remediable service statement to affected member . I have extend the deadline for the NHS Business Services Authority to issue statement to ensure that member have enough time to make informed decision . once member have receive statement , they will be able to use a tool provide by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to retrospectively adjust their annual allowance between 2015 - 16 and 2022 - 23 . separately , the original deadline to issue the 137 , 000 remediable pension saving statement be 6 October . the NHS Business Services Authority issue statement to 57 , 000 member by this deadline , of which 23 , 000 be find to contain incorrect information ; these have since be recalculate and reissue . the NHS Business Services Authority be work to issue outstanding statement as quickly as possible . a revise delivery timetable have be develop and share with trade union and employer representative . by the end of March , 106 , 000 statement have be issue . statement for 11 , 000 member will be produce once further information have be receive from their employer . the remain 20 , 000 statement require additional manual input from the NHS Business Services Authority before they can be produce , and will be issue in July . there have be delay on all side , which we have be aware of since last July . in fact , the Department have escalate issue of design with the previous Government , as I be sure the hon . Gentleman understand . we know that this matter be really important and that there be high number of high earner in the NHS , which be why we have take the decision to be open and transparent about the timeline that we can now commit to , have work tirelessly to reduce the delay . although these delay will cause inconvenience to some member , I have be crystal clear that no one will face any financial detriment as a consequence . compensation arrangement be in place for direct financial loss , certain HMRC interest charge , and the cost of financial and accountancy advice . the Government do acknowledge the impact of the delay on affected member . we be work hard to issue outstanding statement and to protect member from any financial detriment the delay may cause . what be go on with NHS pension administration under this Government ? I declare an interest as someone with an NHS pension . today , the Government have miss the statutory deadline for issue remediable service statement to doctor , and they be now push the deadline back to December 2026 . in mid - March , the Government confirm that just 21 statement have be issue out of 380 , 000 ; as of yesterday ' s write statement , there be still more than 370 , 000 outstanding . this create huge tax liability uncertainty . we and the British Medical Association have be raise concern for month . why have it take the government so long to act ? minister have announce a revise delivery plan , but how will it work in practice ? will there be more staff to help with the backlog ? what change be be put in place to ensure that the deadline be not miss again ? what be most concern , however , be the complete absence of any mention of the remediable pension saving statement in the write statement . this issue really matter , as doctor who be take on overtime or who work privately rely on these statement to be able to track their contribution and avoid excessive tax bill . accord to Dr Sharma from the bma , " there ' s no doubt that without up - to - date information , doctor will be pre - emptively reduce or turn down extra work to avoid additional pension … bill that they might not even be due . " the statutory deadline for the 137 , 000 statement be , as we hear , 6 October 2024 . in February , Ministers confirm that 60 , 000 be outstanding and that the majority would be issue by the end of February ; by March , however , the backlog have actually grow to 70 , 000 . can the Minister explain how two legal deadline have be miss ? will the Government be follow up with the regulator to ensure that this do not happen again ? do the Government have confidence in the NHS Business Services Authority ? with the Secretary of State abolish NHS England , what do this mean for the future of this vital organisation ? we all want to see waiting list fall , but as one newspaper put it today , " labour ' s pledge to slash nhs waiting list be be sabotage by a litany of administrative error , pension delay and punitive tax rule . " I urge the Government to take swift action . as I outline in my response and in the write ministerial statement , we have take action . we be make aware of some of these problem when we come into office in July , and we have push the NHS Business Services Authority to move fast than it would have do under the hon . Gentleman ' s Government , so that action be happen quick than it would have do before . we do have faith in the NHS Business Services Authority to get on with this and ensure that there be no financial detriment , in line with the timetable outline yesterday , and as I have far make clear today . Madam Deputy Speaker , the hon . Gentleman could have ask I more about waiting list , which have fall for the last five month in a row . he could have ask I about the 2 million more appointment that have be provide to deliver for patient seven month early . he could have ask I about the hundred more gps who be now work in the health service , or the impact of cancel the strike on service for people , or the record funding . in fact , last week in the Chamber he speak on behalf of the National Pharmacy Association ; this week , he could have congratulate the Minister for Care , who be sit next to I , on the agreement to produce more pharmacy service . we be make improvement to the NHS every day . the Darzi report report not only the breadth but the depth of the decline that we inherit . we be resolve that , and fix the fundamental of the NHS . I thank the Minister for come to the House and give her response . we all know the issue she be talk about when she mention the state of the nhs that we inherit , and I echo that with the issue I hear about from patient and staff at Princess Alexandra hospital in Harlow . on pension , can she outline what the Government have do to mitigate the delay in the process ? it be important that people have confidence in the pension system . that be why we take action in July on come into office to understand the depth of the problem that occur under the previous Government . this be a complicated issue , which be why we want to be clear with people that there will be no financial detriment to they . we will continue to work with employer and trade union to ensure that the issue be resolve as quickly as possible , in line with the timeline I have outline . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the delay will be deeply worrying and will make financial planning very difficult for those affect , all of whom be people who have dedicate their working life to support the NHS and tirelessly save life . nhs worker and their family be be leave in the dark by Government delay and may as a result miss out on use their full allowance , which be unacceptable — they deserve well . the revise delivery plan prioritise member base on their likelihood of face financial detriment , so clearly some financial detriment be expect for those who be impact . can the Minister estimate what the likely financial detriment be of miss the statutory deadline , or how much compensation , as she just mention , be likely to be pay ? can she tell we why the NHS Business Services Authority have fail to meet the deadline ? in response to a write question from my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , the Minister say that there be 112 people work on it . will she confirm whether that be likely to be sufficient to ensure that future deadline be meet ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . I do not have to hand the exact number of people work on this , but I will make sure that I respond to she on that point in writing . we be ensure that individual do not face detriment as a result of these delay . the NHS cost claim back compensation scheme provide resource for direct financial loss incur by the NHS pension scheme member impact by the McCloud remedy , include professional service fee and certain HMRC interest charge that may arise , as I outline in my statement . HMRC have also confirm that self - assessment late filing penalty will be waive on appeal in certain circumstance where a member receive a delay pension saving statement as a consequence of the implementation of the McCloud remedy . do the Minister agree that it be important that the affected member receive those statement to allow informed decision make ? the Government have work to minimise financial detriment to those affect , but this issue be part of the mess we have be clear up . we have have record investment into pharmacy and more gps , and we have cut waiting list and stop the junior doctor ' strike . we be on the road to recovery . my hon . friend be absolutely right that we be on the road to recovery — and that , of course , be what the opposition can not stand . this be a complicated issue , as they well know . as I say , we inherit this complication in July , when we be make well aware of it . the Conservatives could have do more about it while they be in government , but it be yet another issue on which they have let people down — this time , it be staff . we will ensure that we remedy that . the timeline be available in the write ministerial statement that I issue yesterday . we will continue to work with trade union and employer to ensure that people understand . as my hon . Friend say , it be important that people do understand their own personal position . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . I have to say that I be none the wiser about what exactly have happen . if we be to ensure that this will not happen again — that these deadline will be meet — we need to know how we get into this position . it may well be the fault of the previous Government . will this Government commit to a full review of exactly how we get here , so that we can ensure that the publish deadline be meet this time ? the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee make a good point , as she so often do , about what go on previously . this be an issue from the McCloud judgment that run across many Departments . it be a problem under previous government , start with the coalition Government . I know that the Public Accounts Committee , on which I serve , and the Treasury Committee have look at the matter over time . the Department will certainly co - operate with any inquiry and investigate what happen across Government . I be happy to get back to the hon . Lady on that point . this issue appear to be yet another example of the hangover leave by the previous Conservative Government . do the Minister agree that part of get the NHS back on its foot include clean up this mess and cut waiting list , which have already drop for five month in a row ? my hon . friend make absolutely the right point . as I have say , Lord Darzi have helpfully outline the breadth of the mess that we inherit back in July , and it make for stark reading . we have still not have an apology from the conservative party , so I be happy to take an intervention now if anybody decide to provide one . in these issue , we be see the depth of the destruction that the Conservatives have cause widely across Government . we will continue to fix that on behalf of the british people . I declare my interest as a practise doctor and a public sector pensioner who have be through the McCloud process . do the Minister understand that we will not improve productivity in the NHS as far as doctor be concerned if they continue to retire routinely in their mid - 50 — in their prime ? they do so because their accountant tell they that they would be foolish not to , give the fiscal environment and the structure of the NHS pension scheme . I understand that point . obviously , it be a source of much discussion . the change come about during the pandemic to encourage people to return to work , and it be a complex issue . we want to continue to use the skill of doctor at all stage of their career , and we shall continue to work with they , the British Medical Association and other to make sure that there be no detriment to their return to service in the NHS . I declare an interest as a member of the NHS pension scheme . can the Minister confirm that this issue arise only because the previous Government carry out their NHS pension reform in a way that be find to be age discriminatory ? more widely , do she agree that give NHS staff the term and condition and the reward and recognition that they deserve also require prompt action each year on agree the NHS pay award , which the conservative party routinely fail to do when in Government ? my hon . friend make an excellent point on our commitment to staff to be clear on their term and condition , and our commitment to honour that reward . that be why we act promptly when we come into office . we have issue statement and provide answer to parliamentary question to make sure that people be clear about the system and that we be transparent . it take rather a long time to train a doctor — up to six year — so it be a good job that the previous Government have the opportunity to train more doctor . will the Minister look at one aspect of concern , which be that if doctor start reduce their overtime hour because of fiscal aspect , it will hamper the opportunity to get more patient treat and to shorten the length of waiting list ? as I say in response to the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) , we understand that , and we will continue to work with all staff in the NHS to make sure that we deliver on our commitment to reduce waiting list , which be leave at a shocking level by the previous Government . I have a constituent who be suffer both financial and emotional distress as a result of these circumstance . I write to the NHS Business Services Authority , and it take four month to get a response . in write question to the Government , I have ask how I might make representation about my constituent be affect by financial distress . the response that I receive from Ministers simply say that NHSBSA have all the evidence that it need , and there be no need for anyone to provide extra evidence . there be a very real risk that some people who be affect by this be suffer financial distress but have not be identify by NHSBSA . for those people , can the Minister please outline what mechanism we as member can use to make those people know to NHSBSA , so that they can access their pension choice early ? I be sorry to hear about the emotional and financial distress of the hon . Lady ' s constituent . if there be a gap , I be happy to go back to the NHSBSA on her behalf and make sure that I update the House . do the Minister have full confidence in the chair of the NHS Business Services Authority ? as I say in my statement , we have confidence in the business authority to undertake the action that I have outline . I thank the Minister for her answer to the question . waiting list be clearly beyond the pale . if the Government be able to address the remedial pension saving statement , we might be in well position to entice our doctor to take on additional hour . will the Minister confirm that this be a Government priority , and that there be an understanding that a function NHS require straightforward path to work overtime , and payment at every level ? one of our major priority be ensure that the entire NHS workforce be do the work that they be train and commit to do , so that they can get down those waiting list and deliver an nhs that be fit for the future . the staff , as Lord Darzi have outline , have feel very severely the detriment cause by the previous Government . they be work under really difficult condition , and we want to make sure that , through the 10 - year plan and the NHS Long Term Workforce Plan , we offer they hope , so that they be ready to deliver the service that they have be train to deliver . I thank the Minister for her response this afternoon . I will allow a moment for the Front Benchers to swap over . adoption and Special Guardianship Support Fund ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State to make a statement on whether the Adoption and Special Guardianship Support Fund will continue . I welcome the opportunity to respond to this urgent question . the adoption and special guardianship support fund have for many year provide valuable therapeutic support to adopt child and special guardianship child who be previously in care . I very much recognise that fund over that period have support many child and family and help they towards a stable family life . I have in recent week hear many more story of how important the adoption and special guardianship support fund have be to many , and I pay tribute to the Members from all part of the House who have be advocate and champion for adopted child and child in special guardianship placement in their constituency . I very much appreciate that the delay in confirm the continuation of this fund have be a very difficult time for many . I be especially concerned about child and family , because many of those whom the adoption and special guardianship support fund support be in great need of continue help . I also recognise that there have be an impact on provider of therapy , who have not be able to plan and prepare for the year ahead in the way they would have like . however , the Department have be clear with local authority and regional adoption agency about transitional funding arrangement , which mean that therapy that start in the last financial year can continue into 2025 - 26 , even ahead of full 2025 - 26 budget announcement . appropriate transitional funding have be agree for a significant number of child . I regret the delay in make this announcement , but I be happy to confirm today that £ 50 million have be allocate for the adoption and special guardianship support fund this year . we will be announce further detail to the House in the come day and opening application to family and child across our country as soon as we can . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for grant this urgent question ; I thank you especially on behalf of the thousand of vulnerable child , their adoptive parent and kinship carer who rely on the adoption and special guardianship support fund . I declare an interest as vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on kinship care and co - chair of the APPG on child . I welcome the Minister ' s announcement , which none of we be expect , because many member on all side of the Chamber have spend the last few month ask question after question only to be be bat away time after time and tell that answer would be forthcoming . this vital fund be there to help the most vulnerable child who have experience the deep trauma . those who have be look to renew application for this come financial year , like the constituent I mention in my question to the Prime Minister last week , have be leave hang in limbo . while I be grateful for today ' s announcement , have the Minister consider what impact there have be on those family ? in the case I mention of my constituent Sarah , she say that her daughter have start to regress in the period between finish she last lot of therapy and be able to secure the next lot of therapy . another woman contact I to tell I that she be special guardian for a child who at the age of just two witness her mother be murder by her father , and she have be unable to access the right level of support . the Minister mention the impact on provider . the Purple Elephant Project in my constituency of Twickenham be desperately fundraise to continue provide support , while other be take their support elsewhere . therefore , there be concern about whether there will be sufficient provision . while I be grateful for the announcement , can the Minister confirm how long the £ 50 million will last , and whether Ministers be consider expand the eligibility criterion for the support fund to include all kinship carer , not just special guardian ? it be the least we can do for these most vulnerable child . I thank the hon . member for her point . I very much appreciate the concern cause by the delay in this announcement , and I recognise the potential impact on child and family , as well as local authority , regional adoption agency and provider of therapy . under the Adoption and Children Act 2002 , there be a statutory duty for local authority to have support service in place for adopt child . the Government very much support that . to her question about kinship carer , the plan be for the support fund to open to kinship carer as well , and that £ 50 million be for the year . further information will be provide shortly about those arrangement . I clearly welcome today ' s announcement , but it be a tragedy that many service have close and people ' s therapy have be stop as a result of this funding hiatus . will the Minister ensure that those impact by the gap in funding will have additional support for the trauma that it could have cause to those young people ? will she ensure that the Treasury sign off funding ahead of deadline when the funding end ? the Government remain committed to adopt child and child who be in kinship placement or have special guardianship . the Government will continue to work together to make sure that sufficient funding be in place and be more timely . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I congratulate the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) on secure this important UQ . it be utterly extraordinary that we have have to summon the Government to the Chamber to provide clarity on whether they have axe a programme that end yesterday — or so we think — which support 20 , 000 of our most vulnerable young people . the Government have be give lot of opportunity to clarify the funding situation . the Prime Minister be ask about it in the Chamber just last week . either they do not know at that stage , or they just do not want to tell we — or , more importantly , the thousand of young people use the programme . even by current Department for Education standard , this be utterly chaotic . I do welcome the decision today , but can the Minister tell we when it be make ? she recognise the impact that it have have on child and family up and down the country , but that impact be the result of her decision and her delay . can she please explain to we why this have happen and why the Government could not confirm the future of a £ 50 , 000 - a - year programme soon ? as I have already say , I be delighted that we be now able to confirm that there will be £ 50 million for the adoption and special guardianship support fund for ' 25 - 26 . we will announce further detail to the House in coming day , and we will open up the fund for application as soon as possible . I congratulate my neighbouring MP and the liberal Democrat leader on education , the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , on be grant this urgent question . her constituent and mine benefit from the Purple Elephant Project , through which more than 50 family get much - need therapy that ensure that child stay out of high - cost service . like other group that mp have be hear from in their constituency , those family have be devastate by the delay ; not know whether this important therapy would continue be already have an impact on they . I therefore also thank my hon . friend the Minister for listen — I know this issue be close to her heart , too — and for the work she have be do with Treasury Ministers , which I assume have enable she to make this announcement . how can we ensure that this do not happen again ? it become the norm that group serve vulnerable constituent would not know until right at the end of the financial year whether they would get continuation funding . how can we guarantee that that do not happen again for these group and other serve vulnerable constituent ? I thank my hon . friend for her concern and her lobbying . many member and organisation have lobby I on this matter . I appreciate all of the therapeutic provider up and down our country , especially the one in her constituency . under the Adoption and Children Act 2002 , local authority have a statutory duty to have support service in place for adopt child . as a government , we will continue to support local authority to do that . on Friday in my surgery , a constituent come to talk to I about her eight - year - old adopt son who be bear withdraw from the drug that his birth mother take during pregnancy as well as from alcohol abuse . the birth mother also suffer significant physical and emotional abuse . that have leave this poor boy with many need ; he have foetal alcohol spectrum disorder , developmental trauma , attachment disorder , attention deficit hyperactivity disorder , dyspraxia , dyslexia and a damage nervous system . the therapy , play therapy and occupational therapy fund by the adoption and special guardianship support fund be essential for that boy . if there be one thing the Government should do , it be to prioritise child who have those need . while I welcome the £ 50 million for the financial year we be just start , boy like he and thousand of child around the country need not only certainty for the upcoming financial year but long - term certainty that they will get the care and support they need . will the Minister work with the Treasury to find a long - term settlement , so that the most vulnerable in our society be not in this year in , year out funding trap ? I absolutely hear and recognise the concern the hon . Member have raise regard the eight - year - old adopt child . as I say in my statement , the Department have be clear with local authority and regional adoption agency about transitional funding arrangement , and that should apply to many of the child our constituent have be contact we about . that mean that therapy that start in the last financial year can continue into ' 25 - 26 , even ahead of full ' 25 - 26 budget announcement . however , I would say to the hon . member that the conservative party have a decade in which to ask Ministers those type of question , so perhaps he should be turn his attention to his own Front Benchers . I also congratulate the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) on secure the UQ and thank my hon . friend the Minister for her response . I will ask a question on behalf of the 340 kinship family in east Durham who be live in a constant state of anxiety . they be worry each month about how they will make end meet , worry about whether their local authority would be among the 10 include in the pilot scheme and , until the Minister ' s announcement , they be worried about lose access to the adoption and special guardianship support fund , which provide vital funding for therapeutic service to many family . the Minister have end uncertainty with the announcement , but will she ensure that all kinship family receive stable , long - term financial and emotional support that be tailor to their unique need , regardless of their kinship arrangement ? I thank my hon . friend for his question about kinship carer . they be essential and provide invaluable support and care to kinship child . the Department announce a £ 40 million package to trial a new kinship allowance , to test whether an allowance to cover the additional cost of support the child could help to increase the number of child take in by kinship carer . that be still be work up , but I hear what my hon . friend be say about the uncertainty around some of that . in October , we appoint a national kinship care ambassador and the Department for Education publish new kinship care statutory guidance for local authority . we have 140 peer support group across England , and there be various other area of support and training for kinship carer . I would be happy to speak to he far on this matter . I rise as a proud adoptive auntie who have see for herself the impact of the fund on the most vulnerable child and their family . I also rise as the MP for Christine , a child therapist who live in Hazel Grove , who write to I about the impact that the uncertainty around the fund be have on the family she work with . child who have be through trauma , who have be neglect and who have end up move into a new family need safety , security and certainty . do the Minister agree that we should be encourage more people to be adoptive parent and not put off those who can not afford it ? do she also agree that those who be self - employ and currently do not get any financial support from the Government should get that support in line with the biological cohort ? the hon . Member have give I something to think about , so I thank she for that . I congratulate she on be an adoptive auntie . since 2015 , over £ 400 million have help support nearly 53 , 000 child who have receive therapeutic support . I agree that more people should consider be adopter and that their financial situation should not prevent they from be able to adopt . I congratulate the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) on secure this really important UQ . I be the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on kinship care . I welcome the Minister ' s confirmation that £ 50 million will be allocate this year to this incredibly important fund . that will end the limbo that family have find themselves in while they have experience this unfortunate delay . it be essential that we give all kinship child the same opportunity to heal , to achieve and to thrive . this be the second service affect kinship family that have receive late confirmation in the past few month . I know that the Minister , as a former social worker , care for and have a particular interest in this group of young people . will she work with the APPG to support long - term planning for funding for kinship family ? I thank my hon . friend for all her comment . I assure she that I remain committed to work with the APPG on kinship care . this fund be really important to so many vulnerable child and their family . although it be disappointing that many family and child have be leave in limbo for a good few month , I welcome the Government ' s announcement of the extension of funding . I would like to raise two point . first , will the Minister outline what step be be take to speed up application and reduce any potential logjam in the system while funding be be release ? secondly , will she commit to the House and to family and child that she will meet Treasury Ministers and look at the potential for a long - term funding settlement to reduce such uncertainty in future ? I thank the hon . gentleman for welcome the fund . we will announce further detail to the House in coming day and open the fund for application as soon as possible . I will continue to work closely with my Treasury colleague . I thank the Minister for come to the House to answer the urgent question . I know from her visit to Harlow last week how much she care about support young people . have work in the charity sector before I come to this place , I recognise that short - termism in funding for service to support vulnerable people be not a new problem . will she confirm that the Government be commit to ensure that adopt child be give the support they deserve ? we believe that child need to be secure in a long - term home , whether that be with kinship family , adoptive family or various other . our commitment and our endeavour be to make sure that we provide the good home for a child so that they can grow , learn , play and thrive . John , my constituent in Chichester , be 12 . he send an email to Beacon House , a therapy provider in Chichester , which say : " I ' m really sad and worry that I win ' t be able to see Becky any more . " — Becky be his therapist . the email continue : " can someone please tell I how to not feel so sad ? " John will be delighted that his support from Becky will continue , but the lack of clarity have be feel acutely by vulnerable family , who find uncertainty incredibly trigger . will the Minister please provide clarity on the Floor of the House today — that we will not be back here next year have the same discussion ? I thank the hon . member for share that information regard John . I would like to think that many child be be protect from certain information so that it do not cause they further anxiety . I be delighted that we have be able to confirm that there will be £ 50 million for the adoption and special guardianship support fund for 2025 - 26 , and I absolutely understand the need to ensure that such funding be ongoing and deliver in a timely manner . last week , I have the honour of speak to a parent who have cause to use the special guardianship service in Calder Valley . I know the anxiety that that have cause . will the Minister confirm that the spending review will seek to provide more assurance that we will properly fund both child ' s social care and the special guardianship service ? we be always keenly work across Departments and within our Department with the Treasury to ensure that we can have enough fund to do the thing that we would like to do in government . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) on obtain the urgent question and drag this information from the Minister , whether kick and scream or not . first , I thank Tim and Rachel and Matt and Kelly from my constituency : two family who have adopt youngster and benefit from the fund . I be adopt some 55 year ago , but the world be now a much more complex place , so child be much more likely to have have adverse childhood experience and therefore need this funding . one have hope that , follow the general election , the adult be back in the room . will the Minister assure the House that the funding will continue year after year ? I thank the hon . member for his question and pay tribute to his constituent . this government have no plan at this time to prevent the funding from continue . as I have say , under the Adoption and Children Act 2002 , local authority have a statutory duty to have support service in place for adopt child . like many colleague , I write to the Minister recently regard the fund , so I welcome today ' s news . the adoption and special guardianship fund be describe to I as a lifeline . I know that the Minister have touch on the timeline for funding allocation , but will she confirm that it will be up to county council to apply for the funding , and will she give any indication of when the extra funding will reach council and , therefore , family and child ? I have sort of already answer my hon . friend ' s question . we will ensure that we look at the matter straightaway and that the roll - out take place straightaway . I thank the Minister for her clarity . she will know only too well the distress that this have cause to many child and young adult , particularly those from vulnerable household and family . will she confirm that Northern Ireland kinship child and adoptee who have be adopt to England will benefit from the fund ? will she also clarify whether any ongoing conversation about good practice and learn on the issue be be share with the Northern Ireland Executive ? good practice be always be share across our devolved nation . on the other point that the hon . Lady mention , I will endeavour to get back to she . I thank the Minister for the confirmation that she have give today and , in particular , I congratulate the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) and my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) on their championing of this issue in the House . I think I hear the Minister say that there might be a slight expansion of the fund ' s remit so that it can help more people in kinship care . will she say more on what the Government ' s thinking be about whether the child who can access this fund have to have experience care directly ? there be many child who grow up in a kinship setting , as I do , and who never actually see care , but for whom this fund would be hugely valuable . for clarity , I have not say that we be look to expand the fund — that be important . however , we be delighted to confirm £ 50 million for the fund , and it be available to kinship carer as well . I be sure my hon . friend be aware that there be a lot of focus from this Government on kinship care , and I would be happy to fill he in on further detail on that . in Mid Sussex , Beacon House provide help to so many child . it be lead to believe that only a small minority of family be eligible for continued ASGSF funding , but it appear that , in fact , more than half of its service user be eligible . it would have know that have timely and detailed advice from the Government be forthcoming . we must not forget that at the heart of this be the child and family affect . my constituent Joe have have to explain to their distraught child why their therapy would not continue . as Joe rightly say , this be " cruel " . this be the fourth time I have raise the matter and the urgent need to continue the funding . I welcome today ' s decision , but give that the Minister be clearly unable to answer my colleague ' question about whether the funding will continue in future year , would she like to apologise on behalf of the Government for the distress cause to those child and family ? we have no intention of end the funding . what I will say be that we be pleased that we can announce the funding for 2025 - 26 . I , too , thank the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) for raise this matter . I declare that I be an adoptive parent and a foster carer . my family be currently access post - adoption support , with a view to potentially apply for therapy . I have also have fellow adoptive parent in my constituency get in touch about the delay in the announcement and the concern that that have cause . will the Minister acknowledge the need for timely decision making when it come to support for vulnerable child and young people , so that there be continuity of support and a gradual step down rather than abrupt cut - off ? will she also assure the House that official in her Department be work at pace to ensure that the very welcome £ 50 million for adoptive parent and kinship care placement be make available as quickly as possible ? I absolutely agree that such decision need to be make in a timely fashion . the Department and my official be work at pace with the new information , and I very much appreciate the concern that the delay in this announcement have cause . we need to get on with the job to make sure that we can start ensure the child ' s therapy can continue and begin . due to the funding uncertainty , my Havering constituent have not be able to access sensory therapy for her adopt son from the adoption and special guardianship support fund . she ask I in her utter frustration : " why be this government try to give my two biological child — raise in a good home — free breakfast while deny therapy for my adopt child , who desperately need the support ? " I very much welcome today ' s rush announcement , but will the Minister provide assurance that resource will be put into process any backlog in application so that adopt child do not miss out on critical support ? I understand the political point be make here . what I will say be that we be really pleased about the £ 50 million announcement . we be work and further information will come out as soon as possible regard the funding . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) for her advocacy on this issue , as well as the Minister for her announcement . I , too , have receive many email from desperately worry constituent as we approach and then cross the cliff edge in adoption support funding . they will struggle to square that with report that the Government be willing to scrap the tax on US social medium giant . can the Minister please assure I that any future difficult decision need in this area will benefit vulnerable child more than they benefit Elon Musk ? we will continue to support adopt child . accord to the Adoption and Children Act 2002 , there be a statutory duty for local authority to do that and we will continue to ensure that we carry through with our child ' s social care reform . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) for secure this urgent question . Zach and Iesha be place in the care of my amazing caseworker , Sammie , nine year ago . they have a really hard start in life and be shortly due to start receive trauma therapy and life story work . I be really pleased that it seem that work and their journey can continue . however , do the Minister recognise the burden for family of be put on hold for so long ? will she confirm that support will go forward , beyond this year ? as I have already say , this Government have no intention of get rid of the funding in future year . it be down there in law that support need to be give to adoptive family and , indeed , we be give that support to child place in special guardianship and to kinship carer . I be talk to a family in my constituency who adopt a young boy and a girl in 2021 . they understand at the time that the child be likely to have special need because of their upbringing , but they be prepared to take on the challenge . the boy in particular require therapy to keep he in mainstream school . they have be very distressed over recent month at the possibility of lose the funding . do the Minister not appreciate that this damage our great need to recruit more people to be adoptive parent , which do the state a great service and the child themselves the good possible service ? there be many family , people or couple who wish to adopt , and I encourage they still to consider include a child in their family and in their life . I will also say , as I have say before , that local authority have a duty to support adopt child , and no adoptive person or couple should ever not adopt for financial reason . obviously , they also undertake an assessment to make sure they be suitable . the Sensory Smart Child in my constituency do fantastic work provide vital therapy for 115 adopt child and their parent , but 77 of those child be unable to secure a temporary extension in support while the Government consider the future of the adoption fund , and that cause huge trauma for the family . I welcome today ' s announcement , but can the Minister guarantee future funding ? will she also acknowledge that such therapy fill huge gap but barely touch the side in mental health and special educational need provision in school , which be not fund properly ? I hope that the comprehensive spending review will look at this properly and fund it well . I think I have already answer that question , but I say again that there be many excellent therapy out there that be absolutely necessary for child , and that child from all background and lifestyle benefit from . I absolutely appreciate the work that be do for child in our country . I would like to thank my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham for secure this urgent question and the Minister for her commitment on the £ 50 million . I have secure an Adjournment debate on Thursday on adoption breakdown , and over the past few day I have be ask people to tell I their story . I have hear that thing such as the adoption and special guardianship fund be crucial to prevent it . with that in mind , what assessment have the Minister make of the impact of the fund on ensure that adoption can continue , and will she make that information publicly available , if possible ? I look forward to speak to the hon . member during his Adjournment debate — I be sure that he will ask I many more question , as be absolutely appropriate . I would say that this should not prevent people from come forward to adopt child , and that child will still get the support they need and so rightly deserve . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham on secure this urgent question and this commitment from the Government . I recently receive the follow email from a constituent : " since adopt my child I have receive absolutely no support at all . after 15 year of care for a severely traumatise child , I hear about the post adoption support team … they apply to the fund and my son have just have his first assessment session and we be await the report … he have be fail at every step of his life — please don ' t fail he again . " my constituent will be pleased to hear today ' s announcement , but on their behalf I want to ask the Minister two question . first , will she do everything in her power to ensure that local authority be signpost adoptive parent to the support of this fund and the eligibility for it ? secondly , take into account her comment that she have " no plan " to prevent the fund continue , will she and her Department ensure that the announcement be make no later than September on the funding of the scheme in future financial year , give that the spending review be due before the summer ? this government absolutely support this fund and this funding be make available . if the hon . member would like to share any more information regard the 15 - year - old and the family ' s experience of lack of support , I would welcome he to do so . I thank the Minister for her answer to the urgent question — no one can doubt her compassion or understanding , give the way she have answer . I be mindful of the fact that child be our future — as a grandfather of six , I understand only too well what it mean to have they there — but 18 , 000 child be leave in limbo throughout every region of the United Kingdom , and to get to the point where there be no confirmation of whether essential therapy can continue be terribly disheartening , to say the least . these child feel abandon . how will the Minister ensure that the lack of a decision , and the hesitation , will not add to their sense of abandonment ? I congratulate the hon . member on be a grandfather of six , and I hear the concern he have raise . I share those concern , and the Government will continue to work to ensure that the support service be in place for all child who need it , include those who be involve with this funding . I thank the Minister for her answer this afternoon . I will allow a few moment for the Front Benchers to swap over . Sentencing Council Guidelines with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on sentencing in England and Wales . as the House will be aware , new guideline from the Sentencing Council on pre - sentence report have come under scrutiny in recent week , specifically on whether an offender ' s faith or the colour of their skin should be a factor in their use . this be a question of huge import : whether we all stand equal before the law . that be an ideal that have underpin justice in this country for century and an ancient right that each of we in this House have a responsibility to uphold . the new guideline on the use of pre - sentence report be due to come into force from today , but in recent week I have have constructive talk with the Sentencing Council and I be grateful to its chair , Lord Justice William Davis , for that engagement . as a result , I be pleased to tell the House that the guideline have be put on pause while Parliament rightly have its say . it be important to first understand how we get into this position . under the previous Government , the Sentencing Council propose change to its imposition of community and custodial sentence guideline , which be concern with whether a judge should make a community or custodial order when sentence an offender , and the threshold for these disposal . when the court be decide whether the community order threshold be meet , or the custody threshold be meet , they be require by law to obtain a pre - sentence report unless they consider it unnecessary to do so . these report provide more information to the court , help to provide a great understanding of the background and context of the offend behaviour . they be a tool at the disposal of judge . the guideline provide further guidance to court on how to approach the decision whether to request a pre - sentence report . in this instance , they help they to determine what sentence might well be hand down . in general , I should be clear , I welcome the use of pre - sentence report . in the last few month , I have create capacity within the Probation Service to ensure that it have more time for vital work such as this . but the new guidance , if it come into force , would encourage judge to request they for some cohort of offender and not other . specifically , it note that it would " normally be consider necessary " to request pre - sentence report for ethnic , cultural or faith minority . it be important to be clear about the impact that a pre - sentence report be likely to have in this instance : it be more likely to discourage a judge from send an offender to jail . it be this that create the perception of differential treatment before the law and risk undermine public confidence in the justice system . a repeat theme of my engagement with the Sentencing Council over the guideline have be the intention behind they . it be attempt to address very real inequality that exist in our justice system — inequality that be evident in the sentence that offender receive . it be unclear why this happen , as the Sentencing Council acknowledge . there be no doubt that more must be do to understand the problem we face and to address it . some measure be already take place across our justice system to make it more representative of the public that it serve , such that it can deliver outcome in which we can all have confidence , and I note that the proportion of ethnic minority within the judiciary have rise from just 7 % 10 year ago to 11 % today . while change can feel slow and must accelerate , my view be that despite the noble intention behind these guideline , in attempt to address inequality in our justice system they sacrifice too much . they raise a serious question of policy : in the pursuit of equality of outcome for different religion and race , should we treat they differently before the eye of the law and move so far away from an ideal that have underpin justice in this country for century ? on this , I be clear : all must be equal before the law . I know there will be disagreement in this House with regard to the correct policy to pursue . there have be , as I have note , difference of opinion among the Opposition . I expect that the shadow Secretary of State for Justice , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , who oppose these guideline , and the now shadow Transport Secretary , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) , who welcome they while in office , have be have some robust conversation in recent day . I doubt , however , that there be any disagreement that this be a question of policy . how the state address a systemic and complex issue be clearly the domain of policymaker . it be right that question like these be discuss and debate here . it be right that the public can hold we to account for the decision we take and that they can ultimately reward or punish we at the ballot box . the role of judge be entirely different . they be concerned not with how policy be make but how it be apply . the independence of our judge to make those determination be fundamental to our justice system . over century they have build a reputation for fairness , make they world - renowned and respected . they be the embodiment of the rule of law in our country . to play that role , they must be able to make decision on the fact without any outside influence . they must know they have the Government behind they , protect they as they do that vital work . when I swear my oath as Lord Chancellor , I make a solemn pledge to protect and defend the independence of the judiciary , and I always will . but to do so , it be essential that the boundary between what be policy and what be judicial decision making be clear . for that reason , the Government will today introduce the Sentencing Guidelines ( Pre - sentence Reports ) Bill . it be a tightly focused Bill . it do not interfere with the vital work of the council provide guidance to judge on how to sentence offender . it address the issue of when a pre - sentence report should be order . the Bill adopt a target approach . it do not prevent council guidance from advise in general term that pre - sentence report should be request when judge need more information about an offender ' s personal circumstance . it will remain the case , for example , that where an offender be a victim of domestic abuse , a judge can consider it in decide whether to order a pre - sentence report . but it prohibit the council from make guideline about pre - sentence report with specific reference to the offender ' s personal characteristic , such as their race , religion or belief , or cultural background . the Bill will not affect the court ' s exist duty to obtain a pre - sentence report in appropriate case , nor do it change court precedent around they — like the recent case of Thompson , in which the Court of Appeal note the importance of obtain a pre - sentence report in case involve pregnant woman or woman who have recently give birth ; like the case of Meanley , where the court refer to the importance of pre - sentence report in serious case involve young defendant ; or like the case of Kurmekaj , where the court emphasise the defendant ' s traumatic upbringing , vulnerability and the fact they have be a victim of modern slavery as reason why a pre - sentence report should be order . judge will continue to request pre - sentence report in case where they ordinarily would — for example , those involve pregnant woman or young people . I accept that the Bill will , however , raise wide question about the role of the Sentencing Council . the council do important work bring great consistency to judicial decision making , but we be here discuss a question of policy — a difficult , disputed and uncertain one at that . if the Government can not determine national policy on the question of equality of treatment before the law , we have uncover a democratic deficit . the Bill expose that question but do not address it . the proper role of the Sentencing Council , and the process for make guideline of this type , must be consider far , and I will do so in the come month . it be right that this question be consider in great depth , and should further legislation be require , I shall propose it as part of the upcoming sentencing Bill . the Sentencing Council , although only 15 year old , hold an important position within the firmament of our justice system , and any change must be make carefully and with due consideration . I be sure they will be discuss more in this House in the month ahead . the Government will today introduce the Sentencing Guidelines ( Pre - sentence Reports ) Bill . the issue it contain be of great consequence because the path to a more equal society can only be pave by equality before the law . again , I thank the Sentencing Council for put a pause on its guideline while Parliament have its say . I believe that we must reverse they and reassert that no race or religion should receive preferential treatment before the law . the Bill we will introduce today will achieve that , and I commend this statement to the House . the Lord Chancellor must be live in a parallel universe if she be give herself a pat on the back today . the truth be she have completely lose control of the justice system . she sit on her hand for week and take seven day to gather her thought and put her view in write to the Sentencing Council . her incompetence take this down to the wire . magistrate and judge be update by the press office of the Sentencing Council only at midday that the guideline due to come into force have in effect be suspend . that raise the very real prospect that magistrate and judge sit from 10 am this morning be unaware of this chaotic last - minute change and sentence people under guideline that the Justice Secretary herself have concede be two - tier . but it get bad . in that very email to thousand of judge and magistrate send just 90 minute ago , the Sentencing Council state : " we remain of the view that the guideline be necessary and appropriate " . confusion reign . they be be tell one thing by the Lord Chancellor and another by the Sentencing Council . who really be in charge here ? yet again , the Justice Secretary have be humiliate and undermine by activist judge seek to undermine the will of this place — our Parliament . her authority have be shred — she be be treat as a two - tier , second - tier Justice Secretary . this situation be entirely preventable if the Justice Secretary have simply put party politic to one side and back our Bill week ago to restore accountability and empower she to actually control justice policy , but the Labour party block it . if the Prime Minister have be trick into sit at the front of the dockland light railway think that he be in charge , as his chief of staff mock he for the other day , the Lord Chancellor have choose to sit there in the passenger seat allow the judiciary to take charge . she decide to be undecided , resolve to be irresolute , all - powerful to be impotent . even after this complete shamble , the Lord Chancellor will not even re - establish ministerial oversight . we be tell via frantic press briefing that her Bill , which we have not even see yet , will surgically remove these two - tier sentencing guideline . that do not tackle the root cause of the problem at all , which be an activist legal quango that hold view completely divergent to the public , to Parliament and — now we be tell — to the Government . unless she follow the formula of the Bill produce by conservative mp , we will be back here time and again to unwind the next piece of madness come out of the council . take the Sentencing Council ' s immigration guideline that water down sentence for immigration offence below the 12 - month threshold for automatic deportation : if publish , it will mean hundred of illegal migrant and foreign national offender will avoid deportation every single year . it will blow a hole in border security . it even water down the maximum life sentence for people smuggler that be legislate for just under a year ago . it completely disregard parliamentary sovereignty . at our last exchange , the Justice Secretary say there would be no two - tier justice on her watch . well , there it be — and it be bad than that . on 2 January , her own Department — not the Sentencing Council — publish guidance order the prioritisation of bail for ethnic minority and transgender people , continue a practice introduce under Gordon Brown . contrary to the misinformation peddle by her press office , the Department produce new guidance on pre - sentencing report that have be in force for month , which state that probation officer should consider the " culture " of an offender and whether they have suffer " intergenerational trauma " from " historical event " . well , that be cultural relativism , which violate the rule of law and put the british public at risk . this time , nobody be to blame other than she . it be her Department ; it be black and white ; it be two - tier justice . I have some question . will the Justice Secretary reassure the House that nobody be sentence this morning under guideline that she concede be two tier ? can she honestly say at the Dispatch Box that she have confidence in the head of the Sentencing Council , Lord Justice Davis , give that he have bring it into total disrepute — yes or no ? if she can , be she aware that he take to the airwave yesterday , in an astonishing departure from the expect standard of judicial conduct , to advocate for abolish short sentence , especially for hyper - prolific offender , effectively instruct low court to follow suit ? it be time for he to go , and if she will not sack he for that , what will it take ? do the Justice Secretary have confidence in Johanna Robinson , another member of the Sentencing Council , who take a moral objection to border control and describe the Illegal Migration Act 2023 as appal ? lastly , will the Justice Secretary change the guidance that her own Department be produce and which have create a two - tier Probation Service ? or be it , once again on her watch , two - tier justice under two - tier Keir ? dear , dear , dear I . it seem that the right hon . Gentleman ' s amnesia be as bad as ever : 14 whole year appear to have disappear entirely from his memory . he talk about parliamentary sovereignty , but when his party be in government and he be a Secretary of State or a Minister , he appear never to know what on earth parliamentary sovereignty be or how to exercise power . I think the right hon . Gentleman be rather distressed that my approach have lead to a pause in the guideline , that I will introduce a Bill that will deal with the offend bit of this guideline , and that I will consider the wide role and power of the Sentencing Council ahead of the sentencing Bill later this year . I understand that it must be very disappointing for he that he have be expose as someone who be all talk and no action , and that I get the job do . I can see that that annoy he greatly . perhaps the right hon . Gentleman would like to begin by apologise to the country , as I often invite he to do when we have our exchange across the Dispatch Box . in 14 year , he never appear to discover any of the thing that he now discuss regularly from the Opposition Benches . he do nothing about those matter when he be a member of the Government that run the country . perhaps that be the problem : the Conservatives never really run the country ; they give up on the job . he never roll up his sleeve and put in the hard work to get the job do . that be why we inherit prison on the brink of collapse , and why I be now unwind all the mistake that his party make and the guidance that he and his party welcome . the right hon . Gentleman do not tell I what discussion he have have with the shadow Transport Secretary , the hon . member for Orpington ( Gareth Bacon ) . before the Conservatives explain why they be so het up about thing now , they should explain why they welcome those thing when they be in office . there be no answer to those question . I do not believe that there be many question in that diatribe from the shadow Justice Secretary . on sentencing , the pause in the guideline be communicate — that be a matter for the Sentencing Council . I will , of course , engage with the judiciary to ensure that all be understand regard the pause . nothing have change in relation to the ordering of pre - sentencing report by judge in all the circumstance in which they would ordinarily do so . the guideline be what have be pause , and it will now not come into effect until Parliament have have its say . the right hon . Gentleman reference two individual . that be the difference between I and he : I do not make it personal . I just focus on the job , and I get the job do . I call the Mother of the House . I realise that this be not a popular view in the House , but the Justice Secretary will be aware that some of we be astonish that she think our judge be so weak - minded as to be affect by what be guideline in relation to how they sentence black and brown defendant . the Justice Secretary will be aware that report after report and repeat statistical analysis have demonstrate what some of we consider to be unfairness in relation to black and brown people and the criminal justice system . she will also be aware that the reason the Sentencing Council be make a statutory independent body be to avoid even the appearance of ministerial interference in sentencing . this be not the United States ; our political and judicial system be entirely separate . can she explain why she be so triumphant about not just interfere in sentencing , but pass a piece of legislation to cut across what the Sentencing Council be say ? I thank my right hon . friend for her question — at least she ask some proper question . she say that her view on the policy might be an unpopular one , but this be the place where view on policy , popular or unpopular , can and should be debate . that be at the heart of my disagreement with the Sentencing Council on the guideline . I think that the matter that my right hon . friend raise in relation to race and the disparity in the criminal justice system be the proper preserve of politician . the answer to how we deal with those issue will be a policy answer , and it be for the Government , the Opposition and other member to debate that policy answer and pursue it through Parliament . that be why I reject entirely the suggestion that anything I have do impinge upon the independence of the judiciary or call into question the separation of power in this country . the Sentencing Council be itself a creature of statute ; it be only 15 year old . it be entirely proper for a politician — a Government Minister , the Lord Chancellor — to assert that there be a boundary between that which be policy and a matter for Parliament and that which be judicial practice and consistency in judicial case . I have seek to reassert that boundary . I look forward to work with member with differ view from across the House in consider the wide role and power of the Sentencing Council . as I have say , I will return to those matter in the come month . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . there be only one group in this House that lose control of our justice system : the decimated former Government on the Opposition Benches . overcrowded prison , reoffende through the roof , victim wait for justice — what a disgrace . that disgrace continue today through the downplaying of the impact of intergenerational trauma — of which child abuse be a form — by the shadow Justice Secretary . I thank the Lord Chancellor for engage with I on this issue in advance of her statement . our criminal justice system ' s ability to take someone ' s freedom away be one of the most humbling power that it hold , which be why sentencing decision must include all available information . pre - sentence report be a critical part of that process . she mention pregnant woman , survivor of domestic abuse and survivor of modern slavery as important example of where that be consider . however , because everybody have a context , the liberal Democrats believe that such report should consistently be make available whenever anyone ' s liberty be at stake . we will therefore scrutinise the legislation through that lens of equality before the law . it be rich of the Conservatives to complain about inequality in our justice system when it be they who preside over a state of affair in which someone from one our country ' s most deprive area be 10 time more likely to be in prison than someone from the least deprived , someone who look like I be four time more likely to be stop and search than other , and people with special educational need represent half the prison population compare to a fifth of the general population . will the Justice Secretary outline how she will fairly tackle those disparity to restore confidence in the justice system , which be so shattered by the conservative party ? I thank the Liberal Democrat spokesman for his question . he be right : as I say in my statement , pre - sentence report be an incredibly vital tool for judge . in fact , the requirement be that they should ask for a pre - sentence report unless the court consider it unnecessary to do so . there be a strong push towards obtain pre - sentence report in the vast majority of case . the Probation Service that I inherit from the previous Administration have struggle under increase workload . it be a service that the conservative party privatise and then partly renationalised — our Probation Service officer , who do vital work every single day , have be through the mill . I have be make change to the focus of the Probation Service in the last few month to pivot its work to focus on high and medium - risk offender and free up probation capacity , so that more time can be spend do vital work such as the preparation of pre - sentence report . I will carry on work with the Probation Service to ensure it be ready to do what be ask of it , to a very high and consistent standard , which I know will be important to all Members . I have already announce 1 , 300 extra probation officer in the financial year that have just pass and another 1 , 000 in the come financial year . probation remain vital to the preparation of pre - sentence report , and we will ensure it be in a position to meet the ask that be make of it . on the hon . Gentleman ' s wide point about disparity across the criminal justice system , I thank he for the spirit in which he have engage with I on those matter . I have the same concern as he , but I believe we should understand what the late datum be show we . that be why I have ask for a review of all the current datum , and we should test any solution we come up with . they be policy solution , so they would have to be debate and pass in this House , and politician be ultimately responsible at the ballot box for the choice they make , but those solution have to work — they have to yield a change in these disparity . that be what I want to test . in my engagement with the Sentencing Council on this particular guideline , it have accept that the cause of the disparity be unclear , and no one be sure whether the change to pre - sentence report would make a difference anyway . I be not willing to sacrifice public confidence in the criminal justice system or chip away at the idea of equality before the law for solution that be appropriate for debate in this place and that we be not even sure would work . I look forward to work with the hon . Gentleman closely in the come week and month on these issue . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . the Sentencing Council be a judicial body whose president be the Lady Chief Justice and whose chair be a distinguished Court of Appeal judge . its function be previously execute by the Court of Appeal . it be fully independent but be link to Parliament , not least because the Justice Committee be a statutory consultee for all its guideline , include those under discussion today . its judicial leadership , independence and democratic accountability be its strength and a primary reason it be hold in high esteem in the criminal justice system . will the Lord Chancellor reassure I that those attribute will remain integral to the council , whatever change be propose in the current legislation , sentence review and sentence Bill ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his question . of course , I respect the independence of the judiciary . I think I be very clear in my statement and the remark I have make that I not only stand behind that principle , but have take an oath that I fulfil and consider my duty to do so . where I consider to be in disagreement with the Sentencing Council be that this be properly an area of policy , rather than a mere tool for the consistency of judicial practice when it come to sentencing . that be the point of principle on which we have a disagreement , and it be why I will be consider a further review of the wide role and power of the Sentencing Council . I simply repeat to my hon . friend that ensure that a creature of statute be operate in the way that be intend when that statute be put in place be the proper preserve of politician and Parliament . I hope we can all agree on that . I thank the Lord Chancellor for her rather belate statement . I particularly welcome her observation that recent event have uncover a democratic deficit . be she not concerned that it be the shadow Justice Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , who uncover this deficit , and not herself , her ministerial team or her Department ? it be my right hon . friend who first raise the issue of two - tier sentencing guideline in this Chamber on 5 March , four week ago . could the Lord Chancellor tell we why she have wait until the eve of their introduction to bring forward her emergency legislation ? if the hon . Gentleman be concerned about the guideline and what be bring to his attention when , perhaps people in his party should not have wave they through before the general election and welcome they , as the shadow Transport Secretary do . I notice that none of they be engage on the substance of that point . I be the one who be deal with the democratic deficit . they have 14 year in power and do nothing about it , and now they just carp from the sideline . do the Lord Chancellor agree that the previous Government be consult on and , indeed , welcome the Sentencing Council ' s new guideline , and therefore it be totally unfair of Conservative Members to accuse this Government of have a two - tier system ? do she agree that it be yet another example of this Government have to clear up the previous Government ' s mess ? my hon . friend be right : many Conservative Members appear to have a very loose relationship with their own track record . the Lord Chancellor be right that equality before the law lie at the heart of popular respect for justice . however , I must say to she that it be not this House that endanger the separation of power , but judicial activist , as my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) have make palpably clear , who be more interested in make law than apply they . will she , as my right hon . friend request , let this House know whether she retain faith in the Sentencing Council and its member or whether , like I , she believe that have be expose , they should now do the honest and right thing and resign ? I have already say that I be not interested in make a personal attack on anybody . I have a disagreement on a point of principle with member of the Sentencing Council about what be the proper preserve of policy and what be the proper role they should play . we have try to resolve it . they have agree to pause their guideline . we will move forward constructively . I will not stand back and let people attack the independence of the judiciary . I have swear a solemn oath ; I will fulfil that oath . we be very lucky in this country to have the sort of legal system that we do and a judiciary that be hold in high regard . these be public servant of the high order . it be easy for politician to attack on matter of policy or politic they do not like , but as I have just show , if politician or parliamentarian disagree with something , we have the power to change it . the juridification of law should worry we all , and we should make sure that primacy remain with this House ; the Lord Chancellor have take an important step towards that today . what be worrying be that for 14 year , no action be take by the Conservative party . do my right hon . friend believe that that be because of incompetence or just a lack of understanding of what it mean for the country ? who can say ? I suggest ask any of the Conservative Members here whether they have an answer to that , but they appear to still wish to live on another planet and never reckon with their own track record in government . black people in Wales be the most over - represent ethnic group in prison in 2023 , follow by those from a mixed background and people belong to an asian ethnic group . that over - representation be bad in Wales than in England . pre - sentencing report can help we to understand why people of black and minority ethnic background be more likely to be send to prison . even if she disagree with the method , surely the Secretary of State agree that action be necessary to tackle evidence inequality within the criminal justice system , so what solution be she bring forward ? the proper role of a pre - sentence report be to give a judge who be about to pass down a sentence vital information about the context of that offender — for example , whether there have be domestic abuse , their age and other vital factor relevant to the offend behaviour — so that the judge can make a decision about the good sentence to pass . the pre - sentence report be not about set right any other wrong that exist , however legitimate they be — that be not the point of the pre - sentence report — but about give the sentencer in every single individual case the information that they need , such as whether a woman be pregnant or have recently give birth , as the Court of Appeal uphold recently . those circumstance should be properly understand by judge . the position in law be that a pre - sentence report should be seek by judge in all case , unless the court consider it unnecessary to do so . that cover the majority of case where a pre - sentence report should be seek , but we should not confuse the proper role of what the pre - sentence report be there to do . to the extent that there be over - representation , I see they too . over 70 % of my constituent be non - white and , as the right hon . Lady can see , I be from an ethnic minority background myself , and I be also from a faith minority . I see those disparity — they be a lived reality of my own life — but I be not prepared to sacrifice the principle of equality before the law to put those disparity right . I wish to be more curious than anybody else have be in previous year about what lie behind those disparity , and about what be the proper lever that have to be pull to put they right . we often discuss judicial diversity , but I be not sure that increase in diversity have necessarily lead to a change in what the underlie data show . clearly , there be more go on . any solution that politician come up with have to be test in the House , because they be properly the domain of policy and Parliament . may I congratulate my right hon . friend on a victory over the Sentencing Council on the fundamental principle of equality before the law ? the independence of the Sentencing Council do not entitle its member to go over its boundary , into the area of policy and politic into which they have stray . that be such a fundamental issue that have make those fundamental error of judgment , those member of the Sentencing Council should no long be able to carry on in the job , whether it be by their own decision or that of the Secretary of State . in fairness to the Sentencing Council , it seek view from the previous Government and be tell that the Government welcome its finding , both in the consultation and the guideline . the Sentencing Council do not do anything wrong in the process that it follow . I invite it to consider that there have be a change of Government and a change of policy since it begin work on the guideline , and ask it to consider reopen the consultation . I be disappoint that it choose not to do so , but I be not interested in make this a personal debate about individual . I be grateful to the Sentencing Council for pause the guideline , which have not come into effect . all our previous arrangement in relation to pre - sentence report remain in place . as I say , I be consider the wide role and power of the Sentencing Council , and I will return to the House with further proposal in due course . the cherished idea of equal treatment before the law be fundamental to my constituent ' understanding of british justice , so why do the Justice Secretary not act immediately to stop the imposition of two - tier sentencing , rather than the last minute scramble we see yesterday ? in her statement today , she say : " the proportion of ethnic minority within the judiciary have rise from just 7 % 10 year ago to 11 % today . " to what extent do she consider that that simply reflect a wide demographic change , rather than discrimination in the judiciary ? on diversity in the judiciary , there have be consensus in this House on that point . a lot of effort have go into encouraging application from people who may want to consider leave private practice and become judge , which have start to have an effect . have institution that be more representative of the country that they represent be an important principle . I hope that there be cross - party consensus that it be important for Parliament to look , at least a little bit , like the people that it seek to represent . however , I be not sure whether an increase in the diversity of judge be necessarily go to be the fix for the disparity issue that we see in the criminal justice system . that be why I have ask for a review of what the current datum be tell we , to tease out whether there be a relationship between those two thing . if there be not , then we will need to think more carefully about the other policy lever that might be need . I think those be proper matter for this House to discuss . on the hon . Lady ' s broad point about the Sentencing Council , I use a power that have never be use before , in the 15 year of the Sentencing Council ' s existence , to ask it to think again . I have do everything the proper way : I ask it to think again and I engage with the Sentencing Council . at the end of last week , it tell I that it be go to stick with and publish the guideline , and that it would come into force today , 1 April , which be why I say I would legislate . I bring forward a Bill , which have be publish today , and thankfully the Sentencing Council have choose to pause the guideline until Parliament have have its say . I have do everything exactly as I should have do , instead of rush to rhetoric , which I do not believe solve anything . pregnant woman and new mother be at high risk in custody . they be seven time more likely to experience a stillbirth and at least two baby death have take place in recent year . among other important measure , the Sentencing Council have issue guidance on the use of prison sentence for pregnant woman and new mother , which be suppose to come into effect today . any delay to that risk cause untold , preventable harm . I be relieved that the Lord Chancellor have commit to protect that guidance , but how quickly will it be implement , because woman can not wait any long ? I can offer my hon . friend immediate reassurance . the Bill that we have publish today be a very targeted Bill on the ability of the Sentencing Council to bring forward guideline relate only to pre - sentence report and personal characteristic . it be a very tightly focused Bill and nothing in that Bill affect any Court of Appeal precedent , and there be already strong Court of Appeal precedent on the desirability of a court obtain pre - sentence report before it pass sentence in case involve pregnant woman and woman who have recently give birth . more widely , on the issue of policy relate to woman in the criminal justice system , I hope my hon . friend will welcome the fact that I have set up the woman ' s justice board specifically to look at the need of female offender across the whole criminal justice system . I be determine — it be a position of policy for this government — that we will send few woman to prison and ultimately have few woman ' s prison . that be properly a matter for policy . I be sure it will be contest in this House , but that be the realm of politic , Parliament and ultimately the ballot box . I welcome the news today that the Sentencing Council have a last - minute change of heart on pre - sentencing report . to go back to the question raise by my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) , why do it take the effort of the shadow Justice Secretary to get the Lord Chancellor to have a change of heart on that important matter ? we do not get an answer on that before . I do answer the question : it do not . whatever their ethnic background , my constituent in Rochdale be unite in support the ancient british principle of equality under the law . I welcome what the Justice Secretary have produce today , in stark contrast to the Opposition , who welcome the previous attempt at two - tier justice . do she agree with I that pre - sentence report should be available for all offender and should never be link to ethnicity , culture or faith ? my hon . friend be right . I wish to see the wide possible use of pre - sentencing report . it be my job to ensure that the Probation Service be in a position to provide pre - sentencing report whenever they be require by the court , and that court have confidence in the report that they be get . I will ensure that that be the case . have the Lady Chief Justice be rebuke for the impertinence of her letter to the Prime Minister follow Prime Minister ' s question on 12 February , when he perfectly properly question another absurd judicial decision ? no . I have very positive conversation with the Lady Chief Justice . she have an important constitutional function and obligation , as do I . our conversation be collaborative and constructive . on that matter , the Government make their view clear that the exchange at Prime Minister ' s question turn on a question of policy , which be the proper realm of politician and ultimately Parliament . I thank the Justice Secretary for her decisive action on this issue and note that this Government be not duck political decision , farm they out to quangos like the last lot do with body like NHS England , or blame the blob for crash the economy when it be Liz Truss ' s mini - Budget that do that . do the Justice Secretary agree that politic and policy be the domain of this House and its Ministers , and can she reassure I that this Government will continue to make sure that we in this House can make the decision that the public expect we to make ? my hon . friend be right . the business of government be difficult and require lot of effort . the contrast between this Government ' s approach and the approach take by the Tory party over its 14 year in government be stark . we be get on with the job . while the Sentencing Council guideline do not apply in Northern Ireland , do the Lord Chancellor accept that controversial change in England , such as a reduced likelihood of custodial sentence for certain group , risk undermine confidence in the justice system across the entire UK ? can she outline what step she be take to ensure fairness and consistency in sentencing across all jurisdiction , regardless of ethnicity , culture or faith ? in Wales , these be reserved matter , and the guideline would impact only on England and Wales . there be devolve arrangement here as well , which I do not propose to upend in any way , but I be always happy to have constructive conversation with colleague in Scotland , Northern Ireland and Wales on any such matter . in the end , we be a UK system , even where some matter be devolve , and I really appreciate and value that collaboration . I join colleague in pay tribute to the Lord Chancellor for her decisive leadership and for the thoughtful way in which she have answer question today . [ laughter . ] I welcome , as will my constituent in Pendle and Clitheroe , her confirmation that equality before the law will remain , and I look forward to see the Bill that she propose . I can see the Tories rail against the justice system that they leave we , but we on the Government Benches really be mad about it : we have a backlog of 70 , 000 crown court case , there be no prison place leave and neighbourhood policing be hollow out . be it any wonder that voter so comprehensively reject the Tories ? I think the country have its say on 14 year of the Tories in charge . to be honest , give their legacy in the criminal justice system , I would not take the same approach , but I be not surprised that they be laugh ; the only other thing they could do be to cry . why do the Lord Chancellor propose to take only a very narrow power in respect of the two - tier pre - sentencing report rather than a general power , give that other guideline and draft guideline , include for immigration offence , be far below the level agree to by this Parliament ? the Sentencing Council be ignore policy determine by this House . what more evidence do she need to act , and to act now ? on the immigration guideline , I will correct something that the shadow Justice Secretary say early . nothing in that guideline prevent the deportation of any foreign national offender , and this Government have be get on with the job , have deport more than 24 , 000 foreign national . our record on foreign national offender be one of a 20 % increase in removal this year compare with the same period last year . I want to ensure that the guideline do not come into effect , and that be why I publish the target Bill . I have acknowledge that there be a debate to be have about the wide role and power of the Sentencing Council , which I will return to in the week and month ahead . the Sentencing Council be create in April 2010 ; a month later , the Conservatives come to power . if , as so many on the Conservative Benches seem to think , the Sentencing Council be a shadowy , revolutionary group of activist judge dangerously undermine the british way of life , why on earth do they not do anything about it ? I agree with that . I think they agree with that now — interesting . do the Lord Chancellor agree that this episode show that our constitution be work ? Parliament be sovereign , and if Parliament seek to change this guidance , under this government it will . my hon . friend be exactly right . at no point have anybody on the conservative Benches show any humility or try to answer the question of why they do nothing about it . as I say , the case of amnesia from which the shadow Justice Secretary be suffer seem to be as bad as ever . I certainly welcome the fact that the Sentencing Council have be force to back down on its woke proposal . as the new legislation progress , can the Lord Chancellor assure the House that there will be no dilution of the robust principle of the separation of power and the independence of our judiciary ; and that the right approach will continue to be that Parliament set the maximum sentence for any criminal offence , and our judge decide on a case - by - case basis what the sentence should be ? the hon . and learn Gentleman be absolutely right . it be for Parliament to set the overall sentencing framework , but every single judge have to see the case in front of they and make their own decision . as I make very clear in my statement , I will always defend the independence of our judiciary ; they do vital work and be a crucial part of the separation of power . everything that I have seek to do , give this recent episode , have be to respect that separation of power and assert what we properly consider to be the realm of policy , politician and Parliament , and what be the realm of the judge . I thank the Lord Chancellor for her statement . do she agree that we should all hold closely the ideal of equality before the law , and that the big cause of two - tier justice be the mess that the conservative party make of our Probation Service ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , because he give I an opportunity at the conclusion of my statement to support the Probation Service . in all of the Tory party ' s terrible legacy in the criminal justice system , include prison on the point of collapse , what it do to the Probation Service be unconscionable . this government be put thing right . I have already make change to the Probation Service , and I will ensure that it be on the strong possible footing go into the future . I thank the Lord Chancellor for her statement . Foreign Influence Registration Scheme with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the foreign influence registration scheme . FIRS be a fundamental component of the National Security Act 2023 , which be a response to the evolve threat of hostile activity from state target the UK . part 1 to 3 of the Act come into force in December 2023 and have be transformative for our operational partner , with six charge already bring against those conduct activity for or on behalf of foreign state act in the UK . a further five individual involve in those case have be charge with other offence . FIRS provide crucial additional power to protect our democracy , economy and society . it do three thing : provide transparency on foreign state influence in the UK ; give the police and MI5 a critical new disruptive tool , with criminal offence for those who fail to comply ; and deter those who seek to harm the UK . they will face a choice to either tell the Government about their action or face arrest and imprisonment . give the benefit of the scheme , I can tell the House that FIRS will go live on 1 July . the political influence tier of the scheme , which apply to all state , will allow the UK to be well inform about the nature , scale and extent of foreign influence in the UK ' s political system . it will strengthen our resilience against covert foreign influence . the political tier require the registration of arrangement to carry out political influence activity in the UK at the direction of any foreign power . in most case , registration under this tier will be make available on a public register . for the first time , member of this House will now be able to check whether anyone who seek to influence they be do so at the direction of a foreign power , a move that I be sure will be welcome right across this House . the enhanced tier of the scheme have be specifically design to shed light on activity direct by foreign power or entity whose activity pose a threat to the safety and interest of the UK . it enable the Government to specify those foreign power that pose the great threat to our society , to ensure transparency over a much broad range of activity than just the political tier . it will provide an important tool for the detection and disruption of harmful activity against our country . last month , I set out our intention to specify Iran under this tier of the scheme . I can announce today that we will also specify Russia under the scheme . Russia present an acute threat to UK national security . in recent year , its hostile act have range from the use of a deadly nerve agent in Salisbury to espionage , arson and cyber - attack , include the targeting of UK parliamentarian through spear - phishe campaign . clearly , Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine have also highlight its intent to undermine european and global security . to ensure we be respond to the whole - of - state threat that Russia pose , the Government intend to specify the Head of State of Russia and its government , agency and authority , which will include its armed force , intelligence service and police force as well as its parliament and judiciary . we also intend to specify several political party that be control by Russia , include the United Russia party . this mean that any person — either an individual or an entity , such as a company — that carry out activity as part of any arrangement with those russian entity will have to register with FIRS . should any of these foreign power - control entity , such as political party , carry out activity in the UK directly , they would also have to register with FIRS . I hope it will be clear what a powerful tool this be . it be clear that FIRS have the potential to provide great protection for our security , our democracy and our economy , but we must get the implementation right . in support of the scheme , the Government have today lay before Parliament draft regulation specify Russia and Iran , introduce new exemption from the scheme and make provision for the publication of information . both this House and the other place will have the opportunity to consider and debate these regulation under the affirmative procedure . the Government have also lay a further set of regulation relate to the collection and disclosure of information under the scheme . to support the consideration of the regulation , and to assist potential registrant and other to well understand their responsibility under the scheme , the Government have publish comprehensive guidance online . by bring the scheme into force on 1 July , the Government will be give sector three month ' notice to help they to prepare for it . during that time , the Government will work closely with the relevant sector , include academia and business , to ensure that they understand their obligation . take together , this package will ensure strong compliance with the scheme from day one . there will also be a three - month grace period to register exist arrangement . I know that right hon . and hon . member on both side of the Chamber recognise the challenge pose to the UK by foreign interference , and I hope that all member can support these further step to keep our country safe . of course , as with all national security issue , we must stay agile , and , as I have say , FIRS will be keep under review . any new announcement will be make to the House in the usual way . it be our duty to defend the safety and interest of the UK . that be why we be commence FIRS ; it be why we be introduce great protection for our democracy ; and it be why we be clamp down on the threat from state that conduct hostile activity in , and against , the UK . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I start by thank the Security Minister for advance sight of his statement , which he provide with his customary professionalism and courtesy . we on the conservative Benches welcome the commencement of the FIRS regime , legislate for in the last Parliament , and I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Members for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) , for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) and for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , and my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Fareham and Waterlooville ( Suella Braverman ) , for their work in bring that legislation forward . I also welcome the announcement that Iran and now Russia will be include on the enhance list , mean that all activity undertake in the UK by those country or those act for those country must be register . however , I will address the bulk of my remark to the elephant in the room , which the Security Minister do not mention at all in his statement : China . MI5 ' s director general , Ken McCallum , say in July 2022 , almost three year ago : " the most game - change challenge we face come from the Chinese Communist Party . it ' s covertly apply pressure across the globe . " in October 2023 he add : " we have see a sustained campaign " of chinese espionage on an " epic scale " . in January 2024 the director of the FBI , Christopher Wray , say that China be " the define threat of our generation " . as such , I have a very simple question for the Security Minister this afternoon . he have plenty to say about Iran and Russia , quite rightly , but why be he silent on China ? we know that China engage in industrial - scale espionage , seek to steal technology from government , university and industry . it repress chinese citizen in this country and have seek to infiltrate our political system . in 2022 , MI5 expose that China seek to infiltrate this very Parliament via its agent Christine Lee . it have set up undeclared and illegal police station in the UK , and in December last year it place a bounty on the head of three Hong Kong dissident live in the UK . I would like to ask again a question that be not answer last time : why have the chinese ambassador not be summon to explain that ? there be no question in my mind that China should be in the enhance tier of FIRS , and it be an astonishing omission that it have not be list as such already . why be the government silent on this issue ? in the past , government have prioritise economic growth in their relation with China , but we now know a lot more about how China operate than we do 10 or 15 year ago — we know what it be up to . be the truth not that , in their desperation to get economic growth go after the Chancellor ' s rather unfortunate autumn Budget , the Government seem to be prioritise economic link over national security when it come to China ? I imagine that be why the Government appear to be intend to grant planning permission to China for its super - embassy , which we all know will be a base for espionage activity . the Minister have rightly speak about the threat pose by Iran and Russia . he be right to take action , and we support he in do so . however , MI5 and the FBI have both warn about the epic threat pose by China , so will he please answer this simple question : will he place China in the enhance tier ? to begin on what I hope will be a point of consensus , I be grateful to the shadow Home Secretary for the gratitude he express in general term for the progression of this scheme . I certainly hope that there be cross - party agreement about the importance of this new tool , and I be very grateful for his support . I be also grateful for the work do by the previous Government on the development and subsequent implementation of the National Security Act 2023 . before I turn to the question that the shadow Home Secretary pose , I just say to he that we be try , through the use of FIRS and other mean and mechanism , to ensure that the UK be as hard a target as possible , and to make it the most challenging operate environment for those who would do we harm . the Government take these matter incredibly seriously , and I hope he would acknowledge that we have progress the process of FIRS at pace , despite some accusation from one or two Opposition Members that that be not the case . I hope that the shadow Home Secretary would acknowledge that the main geographical focus today be on Russia . we cover Iran a number of week ago , but in addition to the other remark I have make about FIRS , the focus have be on Russia . he do not have very much to say about Russia , but I welcome he welcome the fact that we have specify Russia on the enhance tier . for reason that I completely understand , the shadow Home Secretary ask about China . he will recall the remark I make to this House on 4 March , where I be very clear that country will be consider separately and decision will be take by this government base on the evidence . I say then , as I say again now , that I will not speculate on which country may or may not be specify in future . that be the right way to proceed , and I hope he understand that . I hope that the shadow Home Secretary recognise that the Government , with the wide strategy we be pursue on China , be take a consistent , long - term and strategic approach to manage the UK ' s relationship with China . I do not agree — this will come as no surprise to he — with how he characterise the nature of the relationship with that country . the Government ' s policy be clear : we will co - operate where we can , compete where we need to and challenge where we must , include on issue of national security . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and his trademark constructive and authoritative tone . often it be frontline police officer who deal with the consequence of aggressive action by hostile state on Britain ' s street . I specifically welcome the Minister ' s announcement that training on state threat activity will be offer by counter - terrorism police to all 45 territorial police force . can he provide a further update on the roll - out of that training ? my hon . friend make an important point . often where the rubber hit the road be the incredibly important work do by police officer on the beat , and I pay tribute to they and their service . it be important that we ensure as a government that all police force be ensure that those police officer out and about in the course of their duty get the training they require to be able to identify and appropriately respond to matter that may constitute either transnational repression or state - direct activity . I can give she an assurance that we be work with police force to ensure that that training be take place at pace . along with the Policing Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , I be liaise with chief constable and police and crime commissioner to ensure that that work be under way . that will provide a valuable tool for those police our street , ensure that they have the requisite skill , training , knowledge and experience , should they encounter the kind of issue we be discuss today . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister , as always , for advance sight of his statement . we on the Lib Dem Benches welcome the further implementation by the Government of the foreign influence registration scheme , but I find myself in the rather unusual position of agree with a lot of what the shadow Home Secretary have say — very dangerous territory . last year , Parliament ' s Intelligence and Security Committee issue the excoriate China report , which say that the Government do not have a clear strategy on China and have not devote sufficient resource to tackle the threat it pose . I will therefore ask the Minister some new question that the shadow Home Secretary do not . will the Minister confirm whether the Government have plan to generate a human right and democracy report , to conduct the audit on China that they have promise , and to ensure that China be fully consider in the strategic defence review ? as have be mention , many be severely concern by the propose chinese mega - embassy , for which the Government have indicate their support . do the Minister believe that the building of this embassy will encourage the chinese Communist party to carry on its attempt to subvert our democracy ? what conversation have the Minister have with colleague across Government about block this plan and make protect our democracy a key national security priority ? can the Minister say more about how the political influence tier will be administer ? how do we ensure that every relevant foreign individual sign up to the register ? it be right , if there be a top tier of the scheme , that Russia and Iran be on it , but will the Government now go far by proscribe the irgc as a terrorist organisation ? finally , the liberal Democrats have long call for reform to funding to prevent foreign interference and to increase transparency in political donation . what plan do the Government have to close loophole that allow opaque and potentially corrupt funding of political party , enable foreign and dark money to influence british politic ? the hon . Lady ask a number of question , and I will endeavour to respond to all of they , but if I do not , I will certainly come back to she outside of the Chamber . she ask a number of question about ongoing activity across Government , and she reference the China audit , as well as the strategic defence review . I know she would acknowledge that those matter be not within the bailiwick of the Home Office , but sit with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Ministry of Defence . I can give she a categoric assurance that we address these matter across Government , and we work closely as different department . she will know that the Prime Minister make an announcement just recently about the publication of a national security strategy . the Prime Minister have commit to publish the national security strategy in advance of the NATO summit in June . that document be be work on across Government , and it will provide , I hope , some of the answer to the question that the hon . Lady have rightly raise . the hon . Lady ask about the embassy . I say to she and to all member across the House that national security have be our core priority throughout that process , which be why the Home Secretary and the Foreign Secretary jointly submit write representation to the Planning Inspectorate to reflect those consideration . I hope she will understand that I be limited in what I can say , not least because a final decision on the case will be make in due course by the Deputy Prime Minister , act in her capacity as Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government . it will be do in an independent , quasi - judicial role , so I be unable , for legal reason , to say anything far on that particular matter at this moment . the hon . Lady helpfully ask about the political influence tier , which will strengthen the resilience of our democratic institution against covert foreign influence . it will require those in arrangement with foreign power who conduct , or arrange for other to conduct , political influence activity in the UK to register those activity within 28 day . Most registration make under the political influence tier will be include on a public register , and I be sure she will recognise the transparency associate with that . the hon . Lady also ask I about proscribe the irgc . she will remember , because she respond to it , the statement I make on Iran last month , during which I confirm that the Government have ask Mr Jonathan Hall to conduct an independent review into the legislative framework around proscription . he be make good progress with that work , and I hope we will be able to update the House far in the near future . finally , the hon . Lady ask about funding , and she will have see the comment from the Electoral Commission in the past day or two . there be separate electoral law specifically relate to funding , but we look carefully at these issue and we be work across Government , not least with the work I lead on through the defend democracy taskforce , work with colleague in the Ministry for Housing , Communities and Local Government and in other Departments . I thank the Minister for his statement , which be of real significance give the increase external threat that our country face . give those threat from hostile state actor , it be more important than ever that we take effective action to protect our critical national infrastructure from cyber - attack and ransomware attack . can the Minister update we on the plan announce in the King ' s Speech for a new Bill on cyber - resilience and the other action be take to improve our protection in this area ? my hon . friend have raise an important point , albeit one that be not often the source of much debate . this government take our critical national infrastructure extremely seriously , and we work with all colleague in all Departments , not least those in the Cabinet Office . I can assure my hon . friend that we in the Government be absolutely committed to use all our lever to disrupt cyber - threat to that critical national infrastructure , and we welcome the plan announce today by the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology to introduce a cyber security and resilience Bill . we work closely with the Department on these matter , and we know that that important Bill will help the UK ' s digital economy to be one of the most secure in the world , give we the power to protect our service , our supply chain and our citizen , which be the first and most important job of any Government . it be good to hear the Minister confirm that the scheme will be keep under review . two definitional matter will certainly need to be keep under review : first , what count as be " at the direction " of a foreign power or specify entity , and secondly , in respect of the political tier , what be the extent of the definition of " political influence " ? up until now we have tend to think in term of influence over election , parliamentarian or government decision , but give the continue development of technology and new medium we can also see the potential for more direct action — direct to the public — which could conceivably have very high - impact effect . will the Minister keep both those matter under review ? it be good to see the right hon . gentleman in his place . there be a relatively small band of former Security Ministers leave in the House , and I think he be the only one in the Chamber at present . I always appreciate his constructive , sensible and reasonable contribution . he be absolutely right : definition do matter , and we have take a long time to think very carefully about how good to do this in order to ensure that we define it in the most effective and appropriate way . as he will recall from my opening remark , we have publish today regulation and guidance provide substantial detail , but I look forward to discuss these matter far when we debate they through the affirmative procedure , and I hope very much that the right hon . Gentleman will contribute to that process . border security be national security . what step be the Minister take , along with other Home Office Ministers , to strengthen the enforcement of the UK immigration law against those who seek to promote hostile state threat here in Britain ? my right hon . friend be right : border security be national security . she will know that the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill have now complete its Committee stage , and she and other Members will have note that yesterday the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary host an organise immigration summit in London , which be attend by countless international partner and be a very constructive and worthwhile gathering . she will also know of the important work that be now be do by the Border Security Commander , who be work closely with our international ally . we be make good progress with these matter , which we take extremely seriously , and although we will have more to do , I be pleased with the progress that we have make to date . two of the four ugly totalitarian sister have be include in the list so far , and I trust that China and North Korea will both be add to the enhance tier in the fullness of time ; but will the Minister take back to the Government the message that the House be concerned about the building of the big chinese communist embassy in western Europe — in fact , the big embassy — in London ? it be not clear why the Government need to call it in on security ground , give that the local authority want to refuse permission completely . will the Minister also explain the differential between the penalty that people will face when expose for act on behalf of a foreign power if they have register and the penalty that they will face if they have not register ? the right hon . Gentleman speak with great experience and authority on these matter , and I know he will agree that the implementation of FIRS give we a critical capability that we have not have previously . it also provide a very clear choice for those who be consider whether they want to engage in this kind of nefarious activity or not . they can declare their activity to the Government , and that be what we want they to do , but if they do not , they will face arrest and imprisonment over a protract period . that will provide a significant deterrent that we do not currently possess , and I hope that the right hon . Gentleman and other will welcome it . as for the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about the embassy , I know he will understand that I be very limited in respect of what I can say . the shadow Home Secretary be shake his head . I be very limited for legal reason because a process be under way , and if I say anything to undermine that process there will be significant consequence . however , the right hon . Gentleman have make his point constructively , so let I think about whether there be some mechanism whereby , perhaps on a Privy Council basis , there can be a briefing in which we discuss these matter in a way that be not subject to the scrutiny that the House will rightly bring . as I have say , I be very limited in term of what I can say , but I recognise the right hon . Gentleman ' s concern , and will look into whether there be a way in which we can discuss it in another forum . while align myself with the concern express by the shadow Home Secretary , I be happy to take the Minister at his word . in the last decade , the previous Government badly misjudge Vladimir Putin ' s aim regard the United Kingdom , and his exploitation of our naivety . so that the current Government do not make the same mistake with the Communist party in China , will the Minister commit himself to release a full , unredacted Russia report , and an audit and report on the activity of the conservative Friends of Russia — or , as they be more recently term , the Westminster Russia Forum ? I think I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question , although I would probably need to consider it for a while long to make an authoritative judgment on whether I be grateful to he or not . the Government ' s position — certainly on the publication of the report — be clear , but I be happy to discuss it with he far . mindful of the comment that he make about previous government , I can give he an absolute assurance of how seriously we take these matter , with Russia and other country . I understand why he mention China , and I understand why other member have mention it as well . I hope he understand that the focus today be on Russia , as the focus last month be on Iran , but I be happy to discuss these matter far with he and his liberal Democrat colleague . on the subject of the political tier , can the Minister say how domestic politician might be affect — those who have foreign interlocutor , as well as those who be simply involve by virtue of all - party parliamentary group ? as for the enhance tier , while I appreciate that he be reluctant to be draw on specific , can he say whether the scope of what he have in mind might include a foreign jurisdiction with a state intention to annex the territory of a european neighbour and Commonwealth partner ? I be always grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his question . with great respect to he , I will not go into the specific of his second point , because I be particularly keen not to do so , but let I respond to his important question about parliamentarian . hopefully he , along with other member on both side of the House and in the other place , will welcome the fact that for the first time , collectively , we will be able to see , and check , whether those who be seek to influence behaviour or activity in this place be do so at the behest of a foreign state . we be not able to do that at present . the fact that we will be able to do it in the future represent a significant step forward , and I hope everyone will recognise that . on the point about the political influence tier , let I reiterate what I say previously . this will require the registration of activity carry out at the direction of a foreign power that seek to influence member of this House . that will help protect the integrity of Parliament by ensure that we be all informed of any attempt to influence we where a foreign power be drive the influence . where a parliamentarian be name on a registration as a potential target of influence and the registration be to be publish , the FIRS case management team will be in contact with that parliamentarian . this be a good and positive step forward for parliamentarian , and I hope that will be recognise across the House . I welcome the statement from the Minister , but if the Government be so concerned , and rightly so , about malign foreign interference with national security , what do he make of the statement from the Trump Administration that tariff decision will be contingent on judicial decision in the UK , or of the letter send from the White House to US embassy in Europe last week order foreign company with US contract to obey Trump ' s Executive order not to promote diversity , equality and inclusion , and would those company require FIRS registration ? I be reluctant to get into the specific of the way in which particular arrangement may work , as that be not entirely helpful . however , I hear what the hon . Member have say , I will consider it far and I will come back to he with a consider response . although I welcome the Government ' s invoke and activation of the FIRS scheme , like a curate ' s egg , it be good , but there be miss bit . the elephant in the room — and it be a very big elephant — be what my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) and other Conservative Members have say , which be the missing bit about China . the fact be that China be behind all this . we know that China be involve in support Russia in the war that be name in this report . it be also behind Iran and the work it have do in destabilise Gaza and so on , and it be behind North Korea . therefore , the question for we be : if it be show that China be a danger and a threat to we internationally , be that the case internally ? we know that the United Front Work Department report directly to President Xi . it be make up of thousand of organisation that set out to disrupt life here in the UK , and it enter into organisation that have influence . we know that it have put a bounty of 1 . 2 million Hong Kong dollar on the head of people here who have flee tyranny in China . we know that the illegal police station still exist that have be drag in Hong Kong dissident . we know they have make attack on dissident in Manchester , physically and brutally attack they . we know that China have spy involve inside the House of Commons and outside it as well . we know that slave labour exist in the net zero array and the wind farm we be put up , and we say nothing about that . in fact , we vote to continue with slave labour last time around . the truth be that we have a real problem because China be at the epicentre of everything to disrupt democracy and freedom . why be China not in the statement today ? I always appreciate the contribution make by the right hon . Gentleman . as I have explain to the House , in addition to announcement about FIRS in a more general sense , the focus today have fundamentally be on Russia . the House will have hear the comment he have make , and I hope he will accept that this Government take these matter incredibly seriously . I hope he have hear the remark that I make , both early and in my previous statement in response to the threat from Iran , about how we will consider country on an individual basis and take evidence - base decision about how good to proceed . I be sorry that I will not be able to speculate on which country may be specify in the future , but I hope the right hon . Gentleman will accept that the announcement we have make offer real value in three particular area . there be the point about transparency , and he will have note the point on the political tier about require all country to register . he will also have note the point about disruption and the point about deterrence . this policy will introduce a difficult choice for those who be seek to influence the UK in a way that have not previously be the case . that be the right way to proceed , but as I say , we keep these matter under very close review . I be always happy to discuss they outwith this Chamber should he wish to do so . I thank the Minister for his statement . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . very worrying medium report have emerge overnight that the iranian regime may be contemplate a military strike on our base on Diego Garcia . for instance , the Telegraph have report : " a senior iranian official say military commander have be ask to target the joint UK - US base , which sit on Britain ' s Chagos Islands , in an attempt to deter Donald Trump from strike Iran . " moreover , in the last hour or so — with Foreign Office question conveniently out of the way — there be emerge medium report that the Government may have come to a so - call deal with Mauritius over the future of the Chagos island themselves . if that be true , the UK Parliament have yet again be keep in the dark about the future of what be still , today , british sovereign territory and a vital strategic installation . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I ask if you , or indeed Mr Speaker , have be give any indication that the Government intend to come to this House to make a statement tonight , or at the very late tomorrow , about , first , an imply military threat to the Chagos island , and secondly , a legal and diplomatic threat to the Chagos island , which be and should remain fundamentally british ? I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman for give notice of his point of order . of course , the Chamber have just be hear a statement that be in part about threat pose by Iran to the United Kingdom and its interest . however , I can inform he that the Chair have not receive any notification of a statement on the specific matter he raise . he will know that those on the Treasury Bench have be listen to his point carefully . as an experienced Member of this House , he will also be consider other way in which he can make sure that this matter be raise . Bills present Sentencing Guidelines ( Pre - sentence Reports ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Shabana Mahmood , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Angela Rayner , Secretary Yvette Cooper and Secretary Peter Kyle , present a Bill to make provision about sentence guideline in relation to pre - sentence report . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 217 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 217 - en ) . Street Works ( penalty for Utility Companies ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Daisy Cooper present a Bill to make provision for the daily issuance of Fixed Penalty Notices against a utility company which have commit certain offence under the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ; to require the minimum amount of any such penalty to be equal to the cost associate with the issuance of the relate Fixed Penalty Notice ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 214 ) . transport ( duty to cooperate ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to provide for a duty on transport authority and other specify person to cooperate to reduce transport disruption and to ensure the effective operation of transport network ; to provide for reporting requirement in connection with that duty ; to require the publication of assessment of expect transport disruption result from maintenance , construction , and other work relate to transport infrastructure and ancillary service ; and for connected purpose . as the Member of Parliament for Runnymede and Weybridge , my mission be to keep they move . we rely on our transport network to get to work , school or college and doctor ' s appointment , or just to see friend and family , whether by road , rail or even air . we be dependent on our transport network . discussion about critical infrastructure often focus on big , apparently unprecedented event , such as the recent power failure at Heathrow , but even the small road be critical infrastructure if someone can not leave their house because of an engineering diversion route . we all welcome work to improve our road and transport network , and we of course recognise that this may cause some disruption . we understand that there will be temporary disruption for unexpected emergency work , such as a power cut or a gas leak . however , all too often our transport infrastructure in Runnymede and Weybridge be bring to a halt due to multiple plan work happen at the same time , or plan utility work cause recurrent disruption through multiple provider — gas , electricity , water , broadband — dig up the same road over and over again . disruption should be avoid and minimise , by authority and provider talk to each other and co - ordinating work . ensure co - ordination when road and rail work take place be the purpose of my Bill . sadly , in Runnymede and Weybridge , we have load of example where co - ordination have not take place , despite repeat assurance that authority do co - ordinate and discuss issue regularly . we have have full M25 closure coincide with mainline rail engineering work , despite reassurance otherwise . road in some area of Chertsey have be repeatedly dig up , often under the guise of urgent work , from gas to water to electricity . perhaps most infuriatingly , authority or utility sometimes do not adequately staff work or leave they unattended , mean that when the signal fail at Painshill roundabout , and separately in Weybridge , it take hour to resolve because the right equipment and staff be not on site to fix the problem . we understand and expect there to be some disruption , but I believe well planning and co - ordination can prevent and avoid much of what we have see locally . Surrey county council have be work hard to address issue on our local road network . I thank the council , and in particular Councillor Jonathan Hulley for his leadership and work on this issue . Surrey have establish a new taskforce to drive well co - ordination and communication of work across our road network . Surrey , along with National Highways and six major utility provider , have call on the Department for Transport to make change to system and process to reduce the negative impact of emergency utility work across the county . it have call for change to digital service use to manage highway work in England to enable prior notice of urgent work where possible , improve communication and co - ordination . Surrey have also call for , among other thing : mandatory onsite signage for emergency work to explain delay , the lead agency to improve information for road user , and of course , a requirement for swift completion of work to reduce disruption and support economic productivity . I fully support the proposal , which could resolve many local issue , but they alone can not achieve the co - ordination require across network to address all the issue I have highlight . that be why I be bring forward the Bill , call for a statutory duty to co - ordinate . under the duty , National Highways could not have inform I that it be unaware of the impact excess train on the Chertsey branch line would have on level crossing and the local road network on the same weekend as a motorway closure , because it would have be require to communicate , co - ordinate and assess the likely impact of its action . under the duty , Network Rail would not have be able to inform I that while it usually do communicate with other authority , on " this occasion " it forget . combine with the work undertake by Surrey county council , under the duty , utility company would not have be able to place repeat and unannounced work alongside major diversion route with impunity . when utility company dig up the road , they would need to check if anything else need to be fix at the same time . our transport link be the lifeblood of our community and our economy . in 2021 , National Highways estimate that total delay on its network alone cost £ 3 billion each year . add to that the cost of delay on local road network — hour miss from work , good stick in transit — and the value of address the issue be clear , if not just for the benefit to our community but to the UK economy as a whole . I ask the Government and colleague across the House to support the Bill and the work of colleague in Surrey to address these issue , and to ensure our national transport infrastructure operate effectively and efficiently for all . let we keep Runnymede and Weybridge move . question put and agree to . order , that Dr Ben Spencer , Rebecca Paul and Gregory Stafford present the Bill . Dr Ben Spencer accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 25 April , and to be print ( Bill 216 ) . product Regulation and Metrology Bill [ Lords ] second read the reasoned amendment in the name of Andrew Griffith have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . will the Secretary of State give way ? [ laughter . ] of course — why not ? when do weight and measure become metrology ? be this use of newspeak deliberate to cover an orwellian attempt to cloak this huge grab for power , and to what end ? I be grateful for that intervention very early on in proceeding . I can not provide a definitive answer to the right hon . gentleman on the naming of the Bill , but I promise that I will find out and put it to he in writing . but he will know that the Bill be , I believe , originally plan by the previous Government because of the need to repatriate power to the United Kingdom as a result of our exit from the European Union . it be something we need in our toolkit , so , far from be Orwellian , it be a pragmatic , practical proposal . I look forward to now make the case for it in more detail . the primary mission of this Government , and the drive force of my Department , be strong economic growth : not just growth that look good on paper , but growth that be see and be feel on our high street , in our town and city , and in the community we serve ; growth that reverse 15 year of stagnation , with all the negative consequence we all feel during that time . to do that , we need an economy in which shop and small business can compete on a more level playing field with online marketplace and the big tech giant . we need an economy that promote investment and innovation , but at the same time ensure consumer and business have real , modern protection . that be why the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill be a small but hugely important piece of legislation , one that will far cement the UK ' s status as a world leader in product regulation and safety . my right hon . friend be give an important introduction to the Bill . do he agree that international alignment in the standard we be discuss on scientific matter be essential for the smooth operation of modern advanced manufacturing ? I be hugely grateful to my hon . friend for that intervention . I believe I be correct in say that he be not only a metrologist , but the first metrologist elect to Parliament . I put no heavy expectation on his speech today , but we be all look forward to it with interest . my hon . friend be right that there be area where we will choose to work with international standard , and there will be area where we choose to diverge , but that decision be make possible only by have the power to begin with . no decision will be make in this Bill , if it become an Act of Parliament , as to how we will do that ; however , without it , we would not have the toolkit to make those decision . the essence of these propose law be that we be take back control for the House of Commons and Parliament to make these kind of decision . the Secretary of State will be aware from the second Reading debate in the Lords that a number of what I shall gently refer to as eurosceptic peer have express concern that the Bill be a form of dynamic alignment with the European Union , and that , far from take back control over which standard be involve and which guideline be necessary , we will be abdicate control in favour of whatever the European Union decide . can he set our mind at rest over those concern ? I be sure he would not wish to be divert along such a dead - end route . I be extremely grateful to the right hon . gentleman for that intervention ; he always bring wisdom to these debate . I can absolutely give he the assurance that the Bill make no decision as to how we should use these power . the reason we be bring it forward today be the same reason the previous Conservative Government first propose a Bill of this kind : have leave the European Union , we need the power to properly regulate these product in this way ; without this legislation , we would not necessarily have the ability to do that . on that specific point , far to the remark of my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , that presumably mean that the Government will press for recognition of UK standard where they prevail and where we think we be do the job well . there will absolutely be occasion where we can learn from other , and other occasion where they can learn from we . be that the Government ' s intention ? will the Secretary of State make that clear now ? I be more than happy to make that clear . we see that in a number of area — it be the case across the whole field of regulation . let we look at AI , which be topical right now : we have choose a different regulatory path in the UK from the European Union , which be to our economic advantage . I be very confident in the approach that we be take . I be sure that when I get to the provision of the Bill , and in particular when it come to weight and measure , the whole House will be unite in be able to say that we believe that traditional british standard be particularly important to we . I say again , however , that have the power to set standard in itself make no decision as to how these power be use . we can all clearly recognise the need to repatriate these power to our own statute book . rise — I be go to make a little progress , but I can not resist the right hon . Gentleman . I just want to raise a small point . when I be do some work on this matter for a previous Government , look at what we could do with our regulation and standard on leave the EU , it become apparent that the UK be behind only America and China globally in set standard for the rest of the world . to what degree be the Secretary of State planning to enhance that , rather than return to any european usage of standard , when we already dominate the field ? the right hon . Gentleman will have hear I say just now that our intention be to cement the UK ' s status as a world leader in product regulation and safety . I be sure we would all recognise the tremendous benefit for both consumer and business that come from be a jurisdiction whose consumer protection be widely recognise and where people have confidence that the good and service they buy will be to the high standard possible . where we see gap in our provision , because of the substantial change that have occur with our leave the European Union , we would surely want to fill those gap so that we be in a position to continue our success in this area . the Minister give the House the assurance that the idea be not to take we back to EU law or to have EU law impose on the United Kingdom , and yet the Bill heavily reference EU law . how do he explain that ? I can explain it very clearly . colleague who be interested in this legislation will have follow the proceeding in the other place and the discussion on this area . I put the case very straightforwardly : we do not have the ability without this Bill to regulate product standard in a whole range of area . there be some case where there will be a strong consumer or business demand for alignment with other jurisdiction ; there will also be case where we wish to diverge , because we see that as be in our economic interest . however , we surely all accept that we can not have a position where we do not have the ability to regulate key product , and in particular product that have come from the new technology that be available and the opportunity that come from that . once again , I say politely to anyone on the Opposition Benches who be not quite reassure that the previous Conservative Government be plan a similar Bill to fill this exact gap in the statute book . I would like to make two point . first , this House can do what it want . it do not need this Bill to regulate anything . to say that be do simply be not true . secondly , on the question of whether the Bill will lead to dynamic realignment with the EU , can the Secretary of State explain what clause 2 ( 7 ) ( a ) be for ? it seem to I that it could be use to dynamically realign with EU regulation . rise — I will give way to the right hon . member . I wish to give the Secretary of State time to read the clause . he owe I now , Madam Deputy Speaker . the key thing be that we must not use EU standard as the default . the hon . member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) be right that we have the authority to make our own standard , and we often do so very well . but the risk be that where we have not yet do that , the EU standard will become the default position . the Minister can make it crystal clear to we today that that be not the case . as ever , I be particularly grateful to the right hon . member for his courtesy . to my hon . friend the Member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) , I say that clause 2 ( 7 ) say : " product regulation may provide that a product requirement be to be treat as meet if — " . it clearly say " may " and " if " . again , I say that there will be time when it be in our economic interest to have a close relationship with the product standard in , for instance , the European Union or another jurisdiction . there will also be time when it be not . that will be our choice . I think we would all recognise the absence of power without this Bill . the right hon . Gentleman make reference to the ability of this House to make regulation . we can , of course , do so by primary legislation . there be a parliamentarian who say that " the use of delegate power carry a risk of abuse by the Executive , which be not something the opposition could ever support . " – – [ Official Report , Taxation ( Cross - border Trade ) Public Bill Committee , 1 February 2018 ; c . 305 . ] the Secretary of State should agree with that , because it be he who say it . that be obviously part of a very wise set of remark that I make from the Dispatch Box . but , yes , we must recognise that . I say again , because the Bill have be through the other place , that change have be make as a result of that feedback : we have remove a number of Henry VIII power ; we have introduce a consultation requirement ; we have provide for additional affirmative resolution procedure ; and we have say that we will publish a code of conduct that set out the statutory and non - statutory control to ensure that regulation be proportionate , evidence - base and develop through consultation . because of the process that we have be through , we have respond to the kind of concern that I be wisely articulate in relation to primary legislation . perhaps it will be of use to the House if I say a little about that journey and the work of the other place in this regard . I wish to thank in particular my ministerial colleague , Lord Leong , for his great effort in take the Bill through the other place . I also thank the many Members and Committees of the other House for their assistance in create what I believe be strong and effective legislation — legislation that will benefit million of UK business , ten of million of consumer , and , of course , all those who enjoy a pint or two at the pub . on pint — I give way on that point . the Minister be right to praise the House of Lords for make sure that the great british pint be in this Bill as an exclusion from the metrology regulation . however , this will not satisfy the metric martyr . the Minister will remember that the ability to sell in imperial measure be a big issue a few year ago . why be it that there be an elaborate schedule to the product regulation , but not to metrology , and why in particular be food generically not include in the exemption from what the Minister propose to do ? we would say with confidence that there be never a danger to the pint , but because of the concern that be raise in the other place and perhaps by some colleague here , I be more than happy to have make the change to assure everyone present and everyone watch that the pint will be defend and secure in the Bill . I have to say that I have receive no entreaty from business that they wish to sell in imperial measurement . however , if the right hon . Gentleman believe that there be an absence of provision in the Bill , he can write to I and I shall write back to he and hopefully be able to reassure he . I think he may be misplace in think that that be a principal issue for UK business . as all hon . member know , the digital age in which we live have create significant growth opportunity . the consumer and technology landscape that we have today be almost unrecognisable from those we have 20 or 30 year ago , so the product that we buy and the way in which we buy they be evolve rapidly . that mean that the relevant rule and regulation must adapt , too . if we be to protect consumer and business , especially small firm , that be essential . as we have examine in some detail , product regulation and metrology be policy area that have largely be repatriate from the EU follow our withdrawal in 2021 . since then the UK Government have simply not have the necessary power to continue regulate these area effectively . we have bring forward this legislation so that we can respond to anticipate change in the global regulatory landscape . that be why , to be frank , I be somewhat bemused by the reason amendment table today . the Bill will ensure that the UK be well place to address modern - day safety issue . it give we the power to well regulate item such as potentially dangerous baby sleep product and toy . it will enable we to reduce burden on business and keep up with technological development , for example by update the outdoor noise regulation in Great Britain . it will align testing method across the UK , which be overwhelmingly support in our recent call for evidence , and it will protect the public from noise pollution from product like lawn mower and power generator . I have only closely scrutinise the Bill today , so I be just bring myself up to date on this . it appear to give the Secretary of State the power to ban any product he wish for whatever reason . we make law in this place not for when we be deal with a Minister of the moral calibre of the right hon . Gentleman , but on the basis that we might have someone who lack such quality ; that be who we legislate for . be it true that this Bill would give the Secretary of State the power to ban literally any product , and that all that would have to be do be to notify this House ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his concern and his regard . I believe that if we be of the view that a product be a danger to the public , the right hon . Gentleman would expect I as Secretary of State in my Department to take action . if he be concerned about provision in the Bill , he can look to the change that have be make . it have be through an extensive scrutiny process in the other place , particularly in relation to the power and delegate power give to the Secretary of State . I think he recognise the case we be make for the safety of the public ; indeed , it be why Opposition member themselves recognise the need for a Bill of this kind . the Bill will help to create a level playing field between the high street and online marketplace . critically , we be able to protect consumer by reduce the number of unsafe and non - comply good that be sell online . this could include ask site to verify third - party seller before allow they to list their good or to have a product safety reporting function for customer on their site . one example be e - scooter and e - bike , which like many product be reliant on lithium - ion battery . these battery have be attribute as the cause of a number of fire in recent year , both in household and on public transport . while we know that the vast majority of product be safe , in recent year we have see some good mis - sell by a minority of unscrupulous manufacturer and seller . as a result , low - standard , high - risk product have be able to enter the UK market . some people have pay for this with their home and , in some case , their life . I think we would all recognise that that be unconscionable . I want to pay tribute to the family of Sofia Duarte . Sofia tragically die when a bicycle that have be convert into an e - bike burst into flame . the bike ' s lithium battery pack fail , cause a fire on new year ' s day 2023 . I know that the whole House will join I in recognise the bravery and courage of Sofia ' s family in campaign for change in memory of their daughter and in fight for well regulation of e - bike , along with the battery and charger associate with they . I also thank the London Fire Brigade for its campaigning on this issue in recent year . it have be on the frontline , see at first hand the devastation that have be work by some of these product . this Bill be about keep the public safe . the Office for Product Safety and Standards have take action in this area already . it have issue 26 withdrawal notice on eight online marketplace , two manufacturer and 16 seller . this have remove two dangerous model of e - bike battery from sale , and I be glad that the legislation we be discuss today will allow we to consider further step on enforcement . I have campaign for great regulation of bicycle , which have get away with kill individual , not to mention e - bike . I want to pick the Secretary of State up on a particular point . I do not disagree with he on the need for regulation , and it should have be do some time ago , so we be as one on that . however , I still do not think that he have quite answer the question pose by the hon . member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) and by my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) just now . why do we need to have a wide - sweep Bill like this if we could do it already in the House by vote ? if we have a powerful enough argument to say to both Houses , " this must be do , " then they will see it through very quickly by the power of persuasion , but they would have the right to vote on it and to disagree . the Bill take that right away and achieve the same result , but only by way of a diktat from whoever be in power — and , by the way , I agree with what the Secretary of State say in opposition . I be sorry that we have not convince the right hon . Gentleman , but I be certain that the Government need power in this area . we need to be able to respond to fast - move change in technology and regulation . the public would expect I , as Secretary of State , as well as my Department and the Government , to have these power to keep they safe . perhaps we have not convince he at this stage , but he can look at proceeding in the other place and in Committee . rise — I will give way one more time before we come to the amendment that be make in the Lords . I be genuinely grateful to the right hon . gentleman . he say that he have fail to persuade Opposition Members in this place , but do he accept that he have also fail to persuade the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee in the other place ? that Committee , which be chair by Labour , say last month : " we remain of the view " that " the delegation to Ministers of law - make power in this Bill involve legislative power shift to an unacceptable extent from the … legislature to the Executive . " why do he think the Committee remain against his view ? I find that when political party go into opposition , all of a sudden they seem less keen on the Government have decisive power to take action in a whole range of area . we have listen carefully to the criticism from the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee , and significant change have be make to the legislation , which I be happy to take the hon . member through . they relate to the number of Henry VIII power , the consultation requirement and the additional affirmative resolution procedure . we be always seek feedback . I will now go through some of the other amendment that be make in the other place . rise — the question I always have for the right hon . Gentleman be : be it go to be good ? I will give way one more time . it will be brief . forget the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee ; what about the Secretary of State ' s colleague , Lord Leong ? he say in the House of Lords that he do not think the Bill be right . in what way do it need to be improve ? will the Secretary of State look carefully at the extent of these power ? even from this short debate , it be clear how wide - range and over the top they be . on Second Reading , we have a Bill that be even strong than the one that start in the other House . once again , I thank all our colleague in the other place for their constructive feedback and contribution to the debate . I will not go through every change that have be make , but I will mention some aspect of the Bill that have be strengthen . first , we have amend the Bill to ensure that there be more parliamentary scrutiny , and we have provide for a statutory consultation requirement to ensure that regulation be inform by those who would be impact by they . there will also be that additional use of the affirmative procedure for regulation stem from the Bill . secondly , the Bill now include a requirement for I , as the Secretary of State , to publish a statement set out how my Department expect to identify and assess high - risk product . finally , contrary to previous suggestion from the Conservative party , the great british pint will clearly not be affect by this legislation , whether that be ale , cider or indeed milk . we do not believe that the Bill in its original form pose any threat to the pint , but we do not want to run the risk of colleague think that my reassurance be small beer , so we accept an amendment table in the other place that will give the pint statutory protection . that mean , Madam Deputy Speaker , that in a few week ' time , when I hope you will confirm to the House that the Bill have receive Royal Assent , we will all be able to raise a pint — protect under statute — to the Bill . I do inquire about whether I be allow to bring a pint with I to the Chamber to illustrate the point , but that be apparently not in order ; only the Chancellor have that ability . give the week I be have , perhaps we will look at that at a later date . to summarise , this legislation will finally enable the Government to properly regulate in area where we have be unable to do so post Brexit . it will also give we the tool we need to well regulate modern - day consumer product . the Bill will help to create a fair environment for high street shop and small business , support our growth mission and provide well protection for million of consumer . for all those reason , I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House decline to give a second reading to the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill [ Lords ] because it will provide for regulatory alignment with the European Union , and it have be condemn three time by the House of Lords Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee as a skeleton Bill which provide , without justification , inappropriately wide power for Ministers to re - write the regulatory regime for product safety and the weight and measure of good by regulation . " too often when the public think of Parliament , they think of out - of - touch power and bad law . the Bill be the archetype of everything that be wrong with Westminster . there should be an unwritten rule in this postcode : never trust a Bill with a convoluted name . this Bill be no exception . although it profess to simplify our regulatory framework , the reality be that this be an EU Trojan horse of a Bill , which will sabotage our Brexit freedom , undermine the integrity of the United Kingdom , disrespect Parliament , befuddle british business with uncertainty and take we back to be a Brussels rule - taker — all from a party that vote 48 time to overturn the will of the british people . will the hon . member give way ? I will not , but before I get into far — [ interruption . ] I will say something nice about the right hon . gentleman in a minute . before I get into detail , let I welcome the Government ' s u - turn on their plan to scrap the great british pint . let we hope that that be the first of many . when I raise that on 26 February , Labour Members describe it as " a conspiracy theory " . the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) say it be " scaremongere " , and the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) , say that an amendment be no more need than a " law to say that the sun must rise in the morning . " — [ Official Report , 26 February 2025 ; Vol . 762 , c . 812 . ] the truth be that the Government be catch red - handed try to ditch our british pint by this back - door Bill . have the opposition not fight back , the power to crush the british pint would have rest on the whim of a Minister ' s pen . welcome though that u - turn be , let we not ignore the fact that the Labour Government want to give themselves the power in the first place . rise — rise — I will give way to the hon . member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) . I thank the shadow Minister for give way , and I hope he will also give way to my right hon . friend on the Front Bench . will he tell the House what possible motive he think a Labour Government would have for scrap the pint ? the Labour motive be all too plain to see . this be a Labour party that vote 48 time to reject the will of the british people , lead by the Prime Minister , who seek a second referendum to overturn that will . I accept that the hon . member for Birmingham Northfield be not in the House at the time , but he might want to spend some time with his colleague in the Tea Room and hear precisely what happen . will the hon . member give way ? no , I will make some progress . the anti - pub , anti - hospitality agenda go far beyond this Bill . the job tax , the threshold change , the attack on seasonal and flexible working , the more than double of business rate , the war on pub banter and the garden smoking ban be all from this government . our hospitality industry — the Secretary of State be smirk — deserve infinitely well than this from this Government . will the hon . member give way ? I be happy to give way if the right hon . Gentleman talk about what he will do to repeal the Employment Rights Bill . the hon . Member be a senior member of the previous Government and play a well - know role in the mini Budget , as well as a number of other thing that that Government do . will he confirm that they be plan exactly the same piece of legislation because of an absence in the statute book ? once again , the Secretary of State have fail to engage on the key issue , which be that british business — [ interruption . ] it be not funny . british business be bleed out , business confidence be at a record low , unemployment be rise , and all the Government have to talk about be the past , not what they be currently deliver . my hon . friend be ask just now whether the previous Government be likely to have introduce this legislation . may I set the record straight ? have we do so , the Secretary of State would have vote against it . my right hon . friend have great wisdom on these matter . will the hon . member give way ? let I move on . the big flaw of many in this Bill be that , as the hon . member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) and my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) have both identify , it hand over too much power with too little accountability . there be " a real need to consider the balance between primary and secondary legislation , which in recent year have weigh too heavily in favour of delegate power … excessive reliance on delegate power , Henry VIII clause , or skeleton legislation — " such as this Bill — " upset the proper balance between Parliament and the executive . " those be not my word , but those of the Attorney General . they be take from a speech that he make in October , while in government , about the importance of restore parliamentary sovereignty . no one who consider that speech could fail to agree . the Lords ' delegate Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee have slam the Bill not once , not twice , but three time , include after the Government ' s change be make . to put this into context , the wide power contain in this 15 - page Bill will allow Ministers unilaterally to amend product safety regulation , impose obligation on online marketplace , meddle with standard for weight and measure or entirely align british regulatory standard with the European Union , pose a threat to the integrity of the UK internal market . it be 15 page of the most egregious whitehall overreach . do my hon . friend agree that this be yet another hammer blow to british business ? we have have the Labour Government introduce £ 25 billion of tax with the employer ' national insurance contribution , £ 5 billion of cost with worker ’ right and a never - end increase in energy bill as they drive forward on their net zero fantasy . now they will be able to change regulation more or less on a whim , whenever they feel like it , destroy certainty and confidence for british business . my right hon . friend make a serious and important point . I take the Secretary of State in good faith when he say that he desire for his Government to grow the economy — every Government should , and I believe that this Government should as well — but he must recognise that every single action he take will take we far away from that goal by pile on the red tape and increase the level of tax . the regulatory jeopardy in this Bill will do the same , by simply make it impossible to know what product regulation will look like . how can any business plan for the future when the power offer up by the Bill introduce such a prospect of unpredictable regulatory change ? do the hon . Gentleman not agree that someone sit at home watch this will be worry by the argument that it be more important to stick to some anti - eu dogma than it be to protect their child from dangerous product , or to keep dangerous electric bike off the market and regulate for their safety ? with the very good will in the world , I think the hon . Lady can do a great deal well than that . as hon . member have say , this House can legislate . if there be dangerous product , bring those use case here , and I believe that across the House we will legislate rapidly to protect our constituent ' safety . however , our constituent do not send we here to pass a 15 - page Bill full of skeleton power to give the Secretary of State an unlimited ability to regulate without have to consult this place . the challenge for many of we who be here during the previous Parliament , when the hon . Member be in office and have the power to diverge , be that we watch what happen and we see the cost to british business . that be why the previous Government decide in the end to abandon the british charter mark , be it not ? would he care to tell the House how much proceed with his plan would have cost british business ? it be £ 1 . 6 billion , in case he do not know . british business need to hear that we get it . they do not want more paperwork ; they want less . I be genuinely intrigue , and I shall sit here and listen to the hon . Lady ' s speech later on . do she want divergence ? do she want we to use our Brexit freedom , or do she seek to go back to be a rule taker and converge ? we have not hear a compelling argument from the Secretary of State today as to why these power should be grant . it be right that we in this House adopt the precautionary principle , and if the Secretary of State , or the Minister in wind up , can give we some more compelling use case , I be sure we would consider that . this be all very important . there have be some merriment about the pint , but in the novel " Nineteen Eighty - Four " by George Orwell , the hero go into a pub , and somebody there lament the fact that the despotic regime have just abolish the pint and force people to drink litre . the road to serfdom be pave by many step such as this . by the way , when I be Minister for consumer affair many year ago , we regularly ban thing . we do not need this Bill . my right hon . friend make the perfect point that this be precisely what the road to serfdom look like , whether it be serfdom to an individual Minister at a moment in time or serfdom to an unelected Brussels bureaucratic elite . why would we give up the power of this House , the reason why we be send here , and the ability to hold the Government to account ? the hon . Member describe the Bill as a Trojan horse — it be more like a Trojan donkey . do he agree that clause 2 ( 7 ) be a particular problem , because it appear to take European Union regulation as the baseline for determine safety ? to many of we , the assumption that European Union regulation should be the starting point for any safety regulation that we might want to make seem somewhat bizarre . the right hon . Gentleman be exactly right , and we can contrast the number of reference to the European Union throughout the Bill with , for example , our big single country trading partner — the United States . I want to directly answer the point make by the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) and provide clarification that I have just seek . clause 2 ( 7 ) ( a ) be not about alignment ; it be about recognition . we already recognise certain EU product requirement on a mutual recognition basis , and where it be of benefit to do so , that be what the clause allow . rather than take european standard as the basis for our own and align with they , it enable that where it be recognise that we have the interest . I can write to he in detail if he wish . on behalf of my right hon . friend the Member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) , I thank the Secretary of State for intervene . it be important that we legislate with full understanding of what the law say , but the point still stand on the overweighting of reference to EU standard versus comparable standard from the United States and Commonwealth friend of this great nation . on that note , the point be the one I make to the Secretary of State : where , as the impact assessment suggest , regulation be move at pace — the Secretary of State repeat that — we will default to a european set of standard . that be the problem , and that be certainly imply in the Bill ' s impact assessment . I seek the Secretary of State ' s assurance that that will not happen . if it do not happen , will there be no rule or regulation ? how will that work in practice ? we be have the proper debate through these intervention that perhaps we should have have when the Secretary of State be introduce the Bill . that illustrate the point about put a vast amount of ambiguity — even if it be well intentione — into the law and how thing will operate , and for a reason of which we know not . if there be instance of , for example , e - scooter catch fire in people ' s hall , this House have the ability to legislate , and legislate fast where necessary , against those particular harm at that particular moment in time . my right hon . friend , with his many year of experience in this House , understand that point , and I think that be what he be say . although Opposition Members will perhaps deliberately choose to believe that the word and assurance give be ambiguous , do the hon . member accept that even Government Members in the House of Lords believe there be an ambiguity that need to be clear up ? one comment be : " the question of dynamic alignment with the EU remain unanswered yet ever more topical . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 12 March 2025 ; Vol . 844 , c . 712 . ] the hon . Member make exactly the right point . this be a blank cheque Bill and a Trojan horse Bill . it be simply not clear under this Secretary of State , or any Secretary of State in the future once these power have be cede by this place , how they will be implement . there be a real asymmetry in the constant litany of reference to the European Union — a value trading partner of our , but only one value trading partner of our , as I hope the Secretary of State be about to reveal over the come day . tomorrow we understand that tariff will be impose by the United States on british exporter . if that be the case , that would be the bad failure of trade policy for a generation . it be business , job and our economy that will all pay the price . the Chancellor ' s emergency Budget will not have last a single week because she make no provision for the imposition of tariff — if that be indeed what be to come . it be frankly outrageous that the Government have fail to make a statement about where we be , despite the Prime Minister ' s official spokesman brief the Lobby , and the Business and Trade Secretary himself find time this morning to conduct a round of medium interview . if the Secretary of State would like to comment on the progress of US talk , I will happily give way . this be a little off - topic for a second reading , but the hon . Gentleman could have just listen to the " Today " programme this morning . he would have hear I articulate those concern . we be engage with our US counterpart , more so than any other country , in those negotiation . he will know that I will not share the content or detail of those talk . the policy originate with the President of the United States and we be respond to and engage with it . the hon . Gentleman will understand that it come from the mandate and the agenda of the US Administration . order . I remind the Secretary of State and the shadow Secretary of State that we be debate the second reading of the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill , and not necessarily tariff . of course , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be near a conclusion in any case . however , I do think that the issue of product safety — the rule and regulation that govern our economy , as the Secretary of State himself say — be intrinsically link with trade , mutual recognition and grow the economy by remove trade friction and barrier rather than erect they and subject business to the tyranny of simply not understand the corpus of rule and regulation . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . do he , like I , hope that the Liberal Democrats , despite their hobby - horse love of the EU , do not allow the EU flavouring of the Bill to blind they to the frankly illiberal executive - enhance , legislature - diminish aspect of the Bill ? if they genuinely aspire to be his Majesty ' s opposition , they will join we this evening in vote against Second Reading . my right hon . friend make an important point . I hope , as the Secretary of State slightly allude to in his remark about the ability of a country to make its own rule and regulation , that we will soon be back in the House with a Government statement at which we can celebrate the mother of all Brexit benefit : secure the ability to conduct our own trade . I look forward to hear from the Liberal Democrats exactly how much they welcome that ability on behalf of their constituent . although I can not speak immediately for all Liberal Democrats , it puzzle we that the official opposition do not seem to recognise that if they have legislate properly when we leave the European Union , this legislation would not be necessary . do they not accept any responsibility for where we be today ? we will not accept any lesson from the Liberal Democrats about what it take to Brexit successfully and go back to be an independent nation , but if that be what the hon . Lady will speak about , I look forward to hear it . to conclude , the Bill be flawed in so many way . with the good will in the world , Ministers should not be propose it , particularly give their failure so far to protect we from US tariff . it be a bad Bill from a Government who be already fail . it be a travesty for anyone who care about respect for parliamentary democracy and the role of this House versus Ministers . it be , as I say , a Trojan horse Bill that will sabotage our Brexit freedom and take we back to be an EU rule taker , which the british people have long put behind we . I urge the House to back our reason amendment and end this terrible Bill . I welcome this essential and timely Bill , which upgrade our product safety , regulation and metrology — a word that I admit I have to look up , but it do not take much to understand it — framework , deliver a much - need boost to protection for consumer and ensure that every company in the UK , whether they operate online or on our high street , uphold the high product safety and quality standard that work people in this country deserve and that have be absent for too long . whether it be faulty carbon monoxide alarm , dangerous child ' s toy or the issue of spontaneously combust e - bike and scooter , which have be raise with I by my constituent in Worsley and Eccles , example of hazardous product be on sale be far too common . clearly , there be an urgent need to raise the bar on consumer product safety in this country . the Bill achieve that aim , establish a modern safety regime that will enable company to operate safely , while account for the post - brexit regulatory landscape . in an increasingly turbulent international trading environment , it be imperative that the Government update the UK ' s product regulation . however , since our exit from the EU , the Government have not have the necessary power to meet the challenge present by the fast - move global product safety standard environment . that have leave british consumer vulnerable to fall behind with regard to protection . I be interested in the hon . Gentleman ' s argument . I have be in this House for a little while ; I have sit on both side of the House , and I have be in government . I have never come across a Government who have fail to get regulation through when they feel it be necessary to do so , but it go through with debate . we can not just impose regulation because we think it be right . there have to be some measure of whether it be balance and whether it work , and that be normally do by this House . why give it to the Government alone ? if the system we have in place be work , we would not be here debate this , and we would not see these shoddy product on sale or these fire . the only explanation be either that the system do not work or the last Government fail in their duty to the people of this country . as I be say , this have leave british consumer vulnerable to fall behind with regard to protection in rapidly emerge area of product safety that need reaction — for example , those relate to new technology such as AI and lithium - ion battery . I therefore support the Bill ' s provision to enable the Government to meet the fast - move challenge of the day in these area . I be interested that my hon . friend mention AI . there be three major system around the world be propose for artificial intelligence regulation : those in China , the EU and the United States . if we have to make a choice for our own framework , which might be different from those , for the safety of people in industry , why should that not be do on the Floor of this House rather than through delegate regulation ? it be one of the most important issue that will face we in the come year . I welcome my hon . friend ' s intervention . I will happily admit to the House that I be not an expert on AI . I do , however , recognise that the fast - develop nature of AI as it relate to consumer safety and product regulation require a rapid response , which be potentially not necessarily suit to a full debate on the Floor of the House . can the hon . Gentleman give a single instance of a Government at any time in the past decade not be able to take action on a seriously risky product ? I can not think of one . I can think of several — for example , the lack of regulation around the e - bike and e - scooter on our street that be cause fire . we be in a fast - move environment , and we be create a framework that will future - proof our system . I want to help my hon . friend out , because he be not here when the previous Government introduce the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Bill , which delete more than 4 , 000 law and use statutory instrument to replace they . the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , who be a Minister at the time , be nod his head as if that process be acceptable . he be now challenge a colleague who be not here at the time by say that somehow it be not acceptable now , but it be acceptable then . my hon . friend be right to be concern and slightly sceptical about the opposition ' s sudden agreement that statutory instrument be perhaps not the good way forward . I be grateful to my hon . friend for that intervention . we be deal with a regulatory black hole that be leave behind , and the absence of a framework be let down the consumer and people of this country — [ interruption . ] I be about to say that I be sure we would all agree on that , but that be potentially a stretch in this debate and in this Chamber . I hope that we do agree that consumer should be able to buy product online without worry about their safety , and that product standard should not be bypass or compromise on any platform , digital or otherwise . however , research by the Office for Product Safety and Standards find that 81 % — eight in 10 — of product for sale on online marketplace between 2021 and 2022 fail to meet safety standard , which underline the need for the Bill . we can not allow company to circumvent essential safety standard , present a public health risk just because they sell their product online . however , the Bill be not just about safety , critical though that be ; it be also about ensure fairness . we simply can not continue with a product safety regime that enable online marketplace to undercut brick - and - mortar retailer , or that allow rogue trader to out - compete responsible retailer with unsafe , low - quality product . that be unfair on consumer , reputable manufacturer and the small high street business that must compete with the online giant . with online sale already make up over a quarter of total retail sale in 2023 , we must level that play field now , provide our high street with a long overdue boost to their competitiveness . the hon . Gentleman make a fair point about product regulation , but be the issue that he be highlight not actually about enforcement ? I have no issue with legislate for product regulation safety standard , but they already exist . in fact , he say that there be product that do not meet the safety standard , so we know that those standard exist . the issue that he highlight be purely around enforcement , which this Bill do nothing to address . I disagree that the issue be " purely " around enforcement . obviously , there be element of enforcement , but separate out one part of a package — a regulatory framework that will future - proof we from other issue — be not a coherent argument . to conclude , it be vital that we create a product safety , regulatory and metrology framework that protect consumer , encourage fair competition and meet the change picture internationally . this Bill deliver that framework , and I look forward to support it far in this House . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I declare an interest have spend 40 year in the toy industry and , in another life , have be the chair and the president of the British Toy & Hobby Association . it be a wonderful job — the second - good job . the good job be be the first ever Liberal Democrat MP for Wokingham . and the last . I doubt that very much . nearly a decade since the Brexit referendum , this House be still grapple with what it mean to be outside of the European Union . away from the big headline about trade deal and newly erect border , the technical nitty - gritty of product safety and metrology be ever more important now that we must decide what we want our policy to be in this area . our original framework , derive from EU law , must now keep up with fast - evolve technology and consumer behaviour . technological change in the 21st century may have create new opportunity , but they have also leave we expose to new risk , such as AI , battery hazard and e - bike fire . our online marketplace and the complex digital commerce that facilitate they have reduce barrier to small and medium - sized enterprise share their product across the UK and the world , but the internet be still a wild west in many way , leave small business and consumer expose . that be why the Liberal Democrats welcome aspect of this Bill . we fully understand and support the need to update the regulatory framework for the UK marketplace to give business and consumer confidence in their product . we welcome in principle the power in the Bill to put new responsibility on online marketplace throughout the supply chain , and we support enhance consumer protection for product that pose a safety risk . the product regulation fall in scope of this Bill will have an impact on our country ' s trade policy , and the Liberal Democrats be clear when it come to trade : we believe the Government must pull the most powerful and readily available lever at their disposal to kickstart economic growth by urgently launch negotiation for a new UK - EU custom union . that would create job , boost our public finance and reverse much of the damage inflict on our economy by the previous Conservative Government ' s terrible trade deal with Europe . I take this opportunity to urge the Government to move in that direction and to commit that , as part of these trade negotiation , they will use the provision in the Bill to facilitate a new custom union , which could have such a transformative effect on our economy . I be really grateful to the hon . gentleman for engage with the issue about product safety and consumer protection in the Bill , and he be make a serious speech in relation to they . first , on the point of the custom union , which be skilfully weave into his speech , that would preclude we from reach any arrangement with the United States , India , the Gulf state or other country . for my money , if we wish to be part of something without a say in how it would affect our trade policy , that would be a very difficult position to take . I will come back to the reference make by conservative mps , who often feel like they be fight the old , last war . they can not get past it — order . first , I gently suggest to the Secretary of State that he be mean to be make an intervention . secondly , we be quite definitely debate the second reading of the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill , not a customs union . perhaps the Secretary of State will conclude his remark . I will , Madam Deputy Speaker . in relation to the number of reference make to the EU in this Bill , the EU be explicitly reference simply because UK product regulation be derive from a lot of EU regulation . we have to reference that when look to the future , particularly when we recognise some of those european standard , but it be wrong to simply look at those reference and try to make they out to be something they be not . thank you for your intervention , Secretary of State . you be right — " he " be right ! sorry . the Secretary of State be right when he talk about we need to keep up with EU regulation . we definitely need to do that . despite the potential in this Bill , unfortunately it contain very little actual policy . it rely far too heavily on secondary legislation , which limit opportunity for parliamentary scrutiny and provide little clarity on what the Government actually intend to do with the power they be give themselves . the Bill hurl we into a hokey - cokey trade policy in which , at Ministers ' political whim , we can stick ourselves into align with the EU just as easily as we can throw ourselves out of it all over again if another Government decide they want to do that . it will also hurt business confidence , because the underlie regulation of our country can be easily alter without the appropriate level of scrutiny from Parliament . take a step back from the issue of EU alignment , this principle can apply across any of the area that this Bill seek to regulate . it be develop opaque mechanism on which the Government expect we to trust they to do well . however , Government Members must contend with the fact that they will not be there forever . all the potentially positive thing they could do with this legislation could be reverse or make bad by a different government . it be at this point that I must recognise the excellent work of the liberal Democrat peer . for example , a Lib Dem lord introduce an amendment that protect the use of the unique british pint measurement , ensure that the Bill could not prevent or restrict its use for beer , cider , or milk in the iconic pint bottle . liberal Democrat peer press the Government to introduce strong protection against lithium - ion battery , and a liberal Democrat peer also ensure that the Government include an important amendment that require the Secretary of State to publish a statement set out how the Government expect to identify and assess product safety risk before legislation be lay . put simply , this will ensure great scrutiny of regulation that be design to make product safe . despite those improvement , the Bill be still ultimately a skeleton framework that shift legislative authority from Parliament to the Executive without the necessary level of scrutiny . many great Ministers agree with I that skeleton Bills be the wrong way to deliver legislation . in fact , in 2023 — a mere two year ago — one shadow Minister state that such Bills be not " a model example of how Parliament would like to see legislation bring forward " , and that we should be minimise " the use of delegate power where possible " . — [ Official Report , 18 January 2023 ; Vol . 726 , c . 409 . ] I agree with that then shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , who be now sit next to the Secretary of State who have bring forward today ' s Bill . I be sorry that he do not agree with himself any more . I also note the assurance that the Government give to my liberal Democrat colleague in the other place that a process for edit statutory instrument will be bring forward . we will be push for detail of that pre - legislative consultation as the Bill progress through the Commons . any Government will say that they be act in our good interest , but all of the thing that this Bill could do — such as enhance consumer safety , reduce trade barrier and build an economy fit for the future — could be undo at the stroke of a pen . that be a pen that Parliament should hold , not Ministers . the use of hazardous chemical flame retardant in domestic furniture have be criticise by the Association of Master Upholsterers and Soft Furnishers and in a 2019 Environmental Audit Committee report , because those chemical have be show to cause more toxic smoke , increase the production of carbon monoxide and hydrogen cyanide and increase the prevalence of health condition , include developmental disorder , breathe difficulty and reproductive disorder . as this Bill would provide the Government with more power to act on that issue , do my hon . friend agree that Ministers should outline how the Government plan to address the danger associate with cfr ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I hope that Ministers will address her question — if they hear it . the Bill make it possible for the Government to use those new power , and that would be a good place for they to start . the Minister in the other place state that this Government be not look to reduce consumer protection . however , what measure in this Bill make sure that parliamentary scrutiny can not be bypass to weaken those protection ? the skeletal nature of the Bill also make clear what be miss — the very heart of our change economy be nowhere to be see . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? can I just carry on a bit ? thank . online marketplace be rapidly expand in number and popularity , compete with high street across the nation , but unfortunately , there be no level playing field on which those two competitor can battle it out for consumer ’ cash . that be what the Bill should be address , because our high street and our small business must contend with regulation that online marketplace be not equally liable to . that be not a level playing field . for example , unsafe product be flood online marketplace . a study by which ? reveal that 90 % of toy purchase from Amazon , eBay , AliExpress and Temu be illegal due to choking and strangulation hazard . another study from the British Toy and Hobby Association find that 85 % of toy from online marketplace be unsafe , with 8 % also illegal due to miss warning . do we want that situation to continue ? I note that the hon . Member have describe many of these toy as " illegal " . in other word , the law be there already . this Bill be therefore not necessary to deal with child choke on toy and all the other thing he have outline . the law be already there ; the question be , do we actually implement the law ? the law need to be tighten up . we definitely need to be take a lot more interest in the unsafe product that online company be sell . do we want to allow unsafe toy to be sell to our precious child by some faceless online operation through an online market ? I be sure the answer be no , but the Bill as it be write fail to address that . the problem be not just limit to toy , but extend to heater , phone charger and battery . the Government have signal an ambition to bring online marketplace liability in line with more traditional model of retail , but an ambition can be easily reverse by a different government without parliamentary oversight . without the measure be explicitly put into the Bill , consumer and the high street be not receive the guarantee they deserve . this be a serious issue for child and personal safety , and we therefore need explicit guarantee of minimum duty for online marketplace in the Bill . what be the Minister ' s view on whether a duty to notify consumer who have be sell unsafe or illegal product should be place on online marketplace ? such a duty could enhance consumer ’ right to seek a refund of the purchase price . will a requirement to verify the identity and activity of seller be establish ? if it be a yes to any of those question , the Minister should do the right thing and amend the Bill so that those guarantee be enshrine in primary legislation . I could go on . the Bill require a tight definition of an online marketplace to ensure that there be no loophole for platform to avoid appropriate regulation . that be especially the case for platform that do not exist solely as an online marketplace , such as TikTok Shop and Facebook Marketplace . finally , the Bill do not make explicit reference to e - bike , e - scooter or lithium - ion battery safety , despite safety be one of the explicit aim of the Bill . e - bike and e - scooter battery fire pose a uniquely high risk to consumer , with the London Fire Brigade estimate that it attend a fire incident cause by one of these device once every two day . there need to be strong regulation on these thing . can the Minister explain why they be not include in the Bill ? my constituent would be forgive for think that the clock have turn back , so I will focus on the issue that they have ask I to raise , which be not political in the slight , but relate to safety . I agree with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State that while this be a small Bill , it be very important . it be of great interest to my constituent , especially the member of Torphichen community council in my constituency who ask I to speak in this debate . they back the Electrical Safety First campaign , and they speak to I about the danger of fire cause by lithium - ion battery in e - scooter and e - bike and in everyday product . the lithium - ion battery safety campaign be call for strong measure , include improve enforcement effort , particularly online ; disposal guidance at the point of sale ; and measure to ensure safe charging . I hope that the Ministers who be present will give strong consideration to those suggestion in due course . lithium - ion battery be integral to many modern device that most of we have in our home , from e - scooter to laptop , but widespread use have expose significant safety concern , largely owe to the lack of oversight . battery have be link to numerous fire incident and pose serious risk of injury or bad . thermal runaway be a dangerous phenomenon : battery cell overheat and catch fire , release toxic gas and often cause extensive damage . by their very nature , e - scooter be often leave in town centre , walkway and communal area in flat and hallway , put other member of the public at risk in the event of thermal runaway . as we have hear , in London e - bike and e - scooter fire occur as often as once every two day . worse still , I be aware of domestic incident in my constituency , include one in which , sadly , a family lose their home and all their belonging as a result of an e - scooter fire . the Bill introduce welcome step to deal with those risk , create a landscape to address the danger associate with product that be so widely use . the mandate on safety standard for the storage , use and disposal of lithium - ion battery will help to mitigate the danger associate with thermal runaway . I also welcome the new power to monitor compliance and enforce regulation effectively . it be critical that only safe and reliable product reach the market , and reach our home . such measure be essential to prevent incident and protect people from serious harm , such as that which affect my constituent . there be much in the Bill that have be long await at a local level , and I be glad that the Government be respond to people ' s concern in a timely and stringent manner . the danger pose by poorly maintain or unsafely store lithium - ion battery be too great to be ignore . be it the hon . Lady ' s understand that the exist regulation on lithium - ion battery be insufficient ? there be a british standard , and there be environmental and disposal regulation . there be a swathe of regulation relate to lithium - ion battery , but if there be a failure to enforce they , that should not give Ministers carte blanche to decide on a whim what product , in this area or any other , should be available for sale in the UK without any recourse to Parliament . I do not think that we want to rerun the argument relate to Brexit , which be what this debate have largely be about so far . the Bill have clearly be introduce to address gap that have leave consumer expose to great harm . the prominence of online marketplace be an establish trend in our society . we all know from the pandemic how important essential — and sometimes non - essential — online purchase can be to our daily life . they have become commonplace , and that trend be only set to continue . by the end of the decade , online purchase will be worth £ 156 billion . nevertheless , many product be poorly regulate , faulty and — too often — dangerous . whether it be the carbon monoxide alarm that do not work that have be use to kit out a cheaply renovate student flat , the faulty chainsaw attachment use by a neighbour or the faulty e - scooter sitting in a back garden , these faulty product have come about because the pace of change online have be poorly match by regulation . we be now in a situation where regulation in the online world do not match the protection in the real world . quite simply , if a product be too dangerous or fail the standard for those sell in shop , it should not be available in online marketplace . as a society , we need to be protect in our increase reliance on and use of the digital world ; otherwise , the lack of online protection will have yet more devastating real - life impact . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be about to conclude . this Bill be a welcome step to alter the regulatory landscape . more importantly , it will ensure basic product safety and well oversight of product such as lithium battery . the Bill will reduce the risk associate with thermal runaway and protect our community from potential harm . as online marketplace continue to expand , it be essential to extend these regulation to the digital realm to respond to the evolve challenge of modern technology and safeguard public safety . I have deep concern about this Orwellian Bill because of what it do not explicitly say and its ambiguity regard EU dynamic realignment . the Henry VIII power the Bill give Ministers will have serious consequence for business , consumer and our ability to trade , but do so with little detail on how they intend to use such power . let I first turn to regulatory alignment . as you may recall , Madam Deputy Speaker , I spend much time take the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 through as a Whip , and I believe passionately that that Act be vital to take back control , for parliamentary sovereignty and in free business to compete by shed unnecessary EU regulation , directive and red tape . so I will say plainly that this Bill will lead to regulatory alignment with the EU through the back door . I invite the Minister to confirm from the Dispatch Box that this Bill and the power it give Ministers will not be use by this Government for dynamic alignment with EU regulation . I doubt that any such categoric reassurance be likely to be forthcoming , but I await with bated breath and a hopeful heart that it be so . will the hon . Lady give way ? let I make some progress , and then I will give way . the Government have always claim that they would not return we to the single market and the custom union , and many believe they . I be always a healthy sceptic , but I be willing to be prove wrong . however , my fear be that this Bill will lead to back - door EU regulatory alignment , and whether that be deliberate or unintentional matter not . we have our democratic instruction from the british people , and we must honour they . I now want to talk about competition — will the hon . Lady give way on regulatory alignment ? let I make some progress . it be on the point the hon . Lady be move away from . well , I be now on competition . would the hon . member like to make a comment about that ? no , this be on the last point . order . this be turn into a debate in itself . it be very clear that the Member do not want to take an intervention right now , Mr Snell , but she may do so later . I now want to talk about competition — will the hon . Lady give way on a point about competition ? I will give way on a point about competition . Persistence sometimes pay off , Madam Deputy Speaker . I genuinely want to pick up the point the hon . Lady be make about competition in relation to alignment . in the ceramics sector , the food contact material regulation set by the European Union be essential to enable the export of the product we create and make . they be product regulation for safety , but she seem to be suggest that any regulatory alignment be a bad thing . be that her party ' s message about alignment for the purpose of export that I should take back to the thousand of worker in Stoke - on - Trent ? with export , we can apply any kind of regulation we want to maximise our market advantage from leave the EU . we could apply a statutory framework for Japan , or any country we want , to ensure we can export our product . the point of leave the EU be so that we could remain globally competitive , and so that we could choose to adopt any regulatory framework we want if that market enable we to export our product , support our business and help to grow our economy . I would support that , but nothing of that be mention in the Bill . if it mention realignment with market value in relation to Japan , so we could export thing to Japan or to other market , I would be interested in look at the Bill holistically , but not once be any country or trade grouping mention except the EU . that give I pause , and it make I wonder whether this be an attempt to achieve a backdoor realignment with EU regulatory framework without the scrutiny of Parliament . do the hon . Lady also accept that the Bill be not necessary to promote export ? if a company want to export its product to Japan or Timbuktu , it will have to align with the regulation that exist in those country anyway . it do not need a Government Bill , and — far bad — it do not need a Minister to have the power to make regulation without come to this place . I agree completely with the right hon . Gentleman . I will leave it there , because that be an excellent point . this be about free trade and expand our global reach by make money , grow our economy and allow everyone to benefit from a tax base that grow because our business can export freely . I be very supportive of that . if the Bill in any way address the concern I have raise , I would be happy to support it , but it be vague and do not give we the insight we need into the kind of alignment that be intend . that vagueness present a challenge that be mention repeatedly in the other place . in this House , we must address the Bill ' s challenge with a similar rigour . it may look quite harmless on the outside , but under the surface it will deliver profound change and threaten our ability to scrutinise these regulatory change . in the other place , the noble Lord Sandhurst describe it as : " a Henry VIII Bill par excellence " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 20 November 2024 ; Vol . 841 , c . gc44 . ] we would do well to heed those word . where be the policy framework under which Ministers will decide to use these power ? on parliamentary sovereignty or Ministers ' decision to use the power , there be no such framework . I thank the hon . Lady for give way . as a fellow member of the Procedure Committee , I do enjoy a good procedural debate , but I wonder whether she will get to the meat of the Bill at any point . will we be talk about Brexit bogeyman , or will we be talk about consumer safety , represent those we be here to represent , look after their interest and make they safe ? the Bill be a legislative blank sheet of paper for Ministers to fill with whatever legislation they feel like . the Lords delegate Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee state that the Bill " signify an exceptional shift in power from Parliament to the executive and entail the Government , in effect , ask Parliament to pass primary legislation which be so insubstantial that it leave the real operation of the legislation to be decide by Ministers " . I say to member right across this House : heed those word . if we do not stay alert to legislation that look so harmless yet confer such power on Ministers , we be fail in our role as legislator . be my hon . friend aware of any other piece of legislation on which the DPRRC in the other place have report three time with exactly the same conclusion ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . I be not aware of any other legislation that have receive the same recommendation three time . that represent a substantial warning . the Bill , either deliberately or unintentionally , will lead to realignment with the EU and once again leave our country beholden to other ' decision on regulatory standard . it will hamper our business in this fast - change world , make they less agile and less competitive and make we poor as a nation . it give Ministers too much power — a fact that in this House should always be pause for thought , no matter who govern . I urge the Government to think again . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate . I hope to offer a course correction from the opposition ' s attempt to fight many thing today , not least the concept of geography and what be in the interest of british business . in this debate , we be watch the last gasp of the Brexit delusion that have fall on hard contact with the paperwork reality . that be what this piece of legislation be about ; it be about make it easy for british business who have be harm by the previous Government ' s approach to their basic need . this be not about free trade . what come about as a result of Brexit be not free trade , but mountain and mountain of paperwork . I want to focus on that in my speech , but I can not let go of what the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) say . she be , as she say , a Whip on the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 — my goodness I , I welcome a sinner that repenteth . in that Act , the Government be go to rip up more than 4 , 000 piece of legislation overnight without any parliamentary scrutiny , simply because they have the word " Europe " in they . that include thing like airline regulation , because of course what we need be our own separate regulation so that a plane would have to take a different course in mid - air . that be the Brexit benefit . under the previous Government ' s watch , more than 2 , 000 statutory instrument be lay before the House as a direct result of retain EU law . I welcome opposition party ' commitment to parliamentary scrutiny , but I simply say that some of we on that Bill Committee try to offer argument about the importance of parliamentary involvement in such decision , and they fall on deaf ear . I will come on to that . now that Opposition Members have suddenly discover that statutory instrument might not always be the good way to look at such thing , I hope they will be able to focus on what really matter here , because british business need we to do that . british business need we to clear up the mess create by the previous Administration and their approach to Brexit . that be what this legislation do . it be common - sense politic . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will , if the right hon . Gentleman can tell I which of those 2 , 361 statutory instrument he now regret force through this House . the hon . Lady be make an interesting point . the key point with that carry - over of EU law be that all the regulation have already be debate and have already go through Parliament . all we be do be replace like with like . with this Bill , the Government be introduce huge Henry VIII power to create brand - new legislation , perhaps around production regulation , but on who know what else ? who know what impact it will have , and on which country ? that be the difference . we be remove parliamentary scrutiny , rather than just carry over old EU law into current UK law . there be so many thing to unpack there , not least the right hon . Gentleman ' s recognition that our previous regulation as part of the European Union be perhaps not that bad . with rule on bicycle safety , for example , perhaps it be pretty sensible to say that if something be safe in the UK , our colleague in Europe might also be look at it and we could share the burden of work out good regulation . that be not what happen with the retain EU law Act or with divergence , and it do sound like he need to look at divergence . thankfully , I have some statistic for he — I know he will be delighted to hear they . before we move on , let I just say this . opposition Members have not speak for british business today , although I accept that the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) , do try , and I recognise his expertise in toy manufacturing . he will recognise that we be talk about thousand of british business that be affect by regulation . what rule will those business have to follow to be able to sell in a market that make their business sustainable ? some 12 % of business in this country will be affect by this legislation , not because there be new rule , but because if we start to diverge from exist regulation , they will face a choice . do they continue to follow european legislation so that they can sell into a large market , or do they try to follow UK legislation , EU legislation and maybe japanese legislation as well , with all the paperwork that come with that ? rise — I will give way to the right hon . gentleman ; I can see that if I do not , he will have a heart attack . I be grateful to the hon . Lady , but I shall survive . give the time that she have spend in this House , I be surprised that , like some new member , she may have be take in by the Government ' s wording . the Bill give Ministers such blanket power . sure , they can align more with EU regulation , as she desire ; equally , another Government or Minister could go the opposite way and do all the damage she be talk about — needlessly differ from Europe purely out of ideology — and the House would have no say in it . surely , the hon . Lady must be more like the hon . member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) and share with her colleague the need to restrict Ministers ' power . I try in vain to make exactly such argument to the right hon . member when he be a Minister tell I that european legislation be not good enough for this country . [ interruption . ] I now ask he to let I finish my speech , because I want common sense in this legislation , as I think minister do . we need to stand up to those who puff and spout about Europe as though somehow it be a bad thing to make it possible for british business to trade with our near neighbour post Brexit . for the avoidance of doubt , this be not an argument about rejoin the European Union . rise — I will , if I may , continue with my speech , but I shall take an intervention a bit later . our colleague in Northern Ireland know the practical consequence of divergence — the obsession with the concept that somehow we have always to be different , which be somehow believe to be sovereignty . they will know what the " not for EU label " mean . they will know , too , the impact that that have have on they and their colleague . Neil Johnston , director of the Northern Ireland Retail Consortium , recently tell the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee about just that . he describe how supplier have to have separate print run for labelling , and how the requirement in shop for poster and edge - of - shelf labelling be massively burdensome for small business . we end up with a sausage roll that we can not take across the border between Castlederg and Castlefin simply because of the way that the previous Government undertake Brexit . I wonder whether the Member have read the schedule to the Bill . agri - food product be not cover . I hope the right hon . Member can understand that my point be about divergence — about what happen when we try to ask business to run two different regulatory regime out of a mistaken ideology that somehow we can not find a way forward . that be what this piece of legislation will do . the hon . member for Beaconsfield want to tell we that british business be well off as a result of the " Brexit freedom " . well , the number and statistic tell we the exact opposite . I be talk about not just the fall in GDP or the fall in trade that be predict , but the thousand of business — 16 , 400 of they — which have give up export to the European Union because of the additional paperwork and the additional regulatory regime . I be so pleased to have eventually get through to the hon . Lady . she hear the Minister at the Dispatch Box say that this be not about dynamic realignment . be I right in understanding that her view of this legislation be that it be 100 % about EU dynamic realignment ? the hon . member be completely wrong . I hope that he will give I a chance to make my speech before get too excited about the word Europe . he should try to understand what we be talk about here , which be british business and the regulatory certainty that they need from their government . my goodness , if we think how a Tory hard Brexit have hit british business , we should also consider how it have hit small business , which simply could not afford to comply with multiple regulatory regime . we do know that we live in uncertain time , and that the threat of tariff will kill what little business our firm might have leave . as the OBR point out to we last week , if global trade dispute escalate to include 20 percentage point rise in tariff between the USA and the rest of the world , it will reduce GDP by a peak of 1 % and reduce our current surplus . in that environment , we owe it to british business to talk common sense and to talk about what they actually want , which be a reduction in the Brexit red tape that they have have to deal with . we have be here before — on the practical insanity that Brexit generate . there be the obsession with blue passport , which come at the expense of be able to trade and keep a business go . we have also be here before with the previous Government , which be why all those Conservative Members who be here before 2024 need to hang their head in shame at some of the argument that they be make about this . the previous Government want we to have our own UK charter mark . they want british business to run two separate charter mark arrangement . undertaking testing requirement for both the UKCA and the european CE to allow a business to be able to sell in both market be cost business hundred of thousand of pound . the cost could go as high as £ 200 , 000 per product range . I be actually quote from the previous Government ' s own impact assessment of the legislation , and I be happy to send that document to the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) , who be chuntere from the Opposition Benches . UK conformity assessment mark cover good worth £ 109 billion . it be little wonder that after four year , and I believe the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham might have be on that very Committee when it happen , those obsess with the Brexit freedom be hit with cold , hard reality and have to climb down and say that british company that have meet european standard have also meet the british charter mark . they have to roll over the charter mark , because if they have not , their own impact assessment would have show that it cost british business up to £ 1 . 6 billion in the decade . that be the Brexit bonus of which Opposition Members be so proud — billion of extra cost to british business because they be try to fill in two form at once to sell the same item to different set of consumer . the Bill be about so much more than just kitemarking . we need to be clear that it do not mean that we have automatic access to the EU market . it mean that british business can see what the regulatory landscape might look like ahead of they . that be very important in these uncertain time . it also prevent the UK become a dumping ground for good that be no long consider safe in the European Union . I certainly believe that my constituent need to be confident that we will not be flood with cheap good that be bad for they . it also do not mean that we have to align automatically , and I hope that answer the question from the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham . I be not here argue for automatic alignment . after all , there be example of where we have take a different approach . the vaping legislation be something that Conservative Members oppose , but it put we ahead of european product legislation . the Bill have protection for the british pint . the Lords write those in . it be also clear that choose not to participate do not mean that UK consumer be not affect . we see that with mobile phone charging cable . even though we be too small a market to influence Apple , the European Union act together make Apple stop sell we multiple cable . as somebody who be carry around multiple piece of equipment , I be very grateful for that . we may also want to look at example where we might learn from our colleague . right now the European Union have be take the lead on carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon — basically what be in a synthetic football pitch . our kid right now in the United Kingdom play on pitch that have dangerous chemical in they , but our european colleague ' kid be not play on those . when we talk about alignment , sometimes we be talk about share good practice on how to make our kid safe — the consumer regulation product safety that we be talk about . I suspect that be why the previous Government , in the end , with all their obsession with Brexit freedom and with all the power they have , do not diverge very much . indeed , under their watch , there be only five case of active diversion . there be 15 case of passive divergence , where basically they do not update regulation . for all the huffing and puffing , when face with the cold , hard reality of have different regulatory regime for good in this country from those of our next door neighbour , where we might also want to sell , the previous Government take the well approach ; they do not look to make british business try to double up on their paperwork . indeed , where we have diverge there be clearly problem be store up . anybody watch the court case about sandeel know what be come down the line . this government be not go to mess british business around in the way that the previous Government do with their huffing and puff about whether previous government in other country be friend or foe . we need to make trade work . british business need less paperwork . that mean be clear about where we will diverge , where we will align , why that make a difference and what that mean for product standard . I think we agree across the House that we want high standard . that be deliver not by be not european , or pro - european , but by look at what the regulatory regime be . that be why it matter that we have pause some of the current proposal of divergence — on a new recycling label regime , on the " not for EU " labelling , and on the new check on agrifood import . we be look at what work for british business so that we can make it easy for they to trade . that be why I want to speak in this debate . what we need to do in the Bill — I hope the Minister will be open to this — be be clear about the direction of travel and the proper , right way and point for Parliament to be part of that process . if we be go to diverge , we should be clear why that would be in the british interest and how we as a Parliament will have that conversation . where we have information , we should update our constituent , who might have business with product that take 18 to 36 month to develop . they need to know the regulatory regime , for example of the toy they want to make , and which market they can sell into . that be why it matter that we have parliamentary scrutiny . I welcome sinner who repenteth about the value of that , but I do not want to see british business face with the idea of we have to consult on absolutely everything . I do not have an erratic fear of the Europeans somehow hold we back if they help we ensure that our kid be not play football on pitch that have carcinogenic chemical on they . that be common - sense british politic , and that be what the Bill need to deliver . regulatory uncertainty undermine economic growth . if economic growth be our primary ambition , we need to reduce the amount of time we ask british business to be part of consultation , because they need to have confidence about where regulation be go . that be why it matter that we say , " we be not go to start diverge for the sake of it , but only because we can see there be a national interest in it . " I will finish on this point . it matter to so many of our growth ambition that construction material be also cover under the Bill . construction cost be due to rise much far here than in the European Union . many of we who want our hospital rebuild and house building to happen know that if we spend our time give uncertainty to british business about which way the regulation will go , we will not get the investment that we want . the cold , hard reality of business ' decision making be that they do not want to invest on a risk . my question to the Minister be : how can we give british business certainty about the direction of travel and ensure that we have the right consultation and engagement process for Parliament so that , where there be point where we would diverge — like we do on vaping — we can do that , too ? it be not an either / or . frankly , we have to get over the idea that if something be european , it be somehow take we back . nine year after we vote to leave the European Union , and six year after the legislation to do that , what the EU be do still affect our british business . we have a choice in this House . we can continue to peddle fantasy — I be sorry that the shadow Secretary of State be no long in his place ; he seem not even to know about the capitulation that his Government must have make in his eye over the charter mark — but we owe it to british business who be be hammer by Tory Brexit and face economic uncertainty not to add to the pile of paperwork in their in - tray as the Opposition would . I hope that when the Minister set out that direction of travel , he will be open to idea about how we can secure that . british business may have stop listen to Opposition Members , but they will listen to we if we get this right . there be three fundamental point to be make about the Bill , and I will make they more briefly than the previous speaker , the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , although I be delighted to follow she . first , there be a constitutional issue at the heart of the legislation about the power of this House and this Parliament , and the power of the Executive . the Bill create a permissive power for the Executive to introduce by regulation , through statutory instrument , all kind of measure . those who have be in the House for a long time , and perhaps those of we who have be in the House for a rather short time , will know what that mean in practice : a brief debate in a room upstairs that will take a few minute or perhaps a little long . it will be thinly populated and the measure will be give scant scrutiny . the Executive should be hold to account on the Floor of the House or by a Committee design for the purpose . that bring I to my second point about the Bill . we once have a European Scrutiny Committee whose task be to look closely at all kind of thing that emanate from the European Union . the hon . Lady who speak immediately before I describe those of we in the House who be sceptical about the European Union as not be rational ; she say these be irrational fear about the European Union . be that to be true , she would probably have a point , but actually our fear be entirely rational . we know what emanate from the European Union during our membership , and it be endless bureaucracy . I acknowledge that it be often gold - plate here , but none the less it be every kind of rule and regulation , some of which be entirely superfluous to our need because they be introduce on a pan - european basis . I learn long ago that power be well exercise when it be exercise close to its effect . when decision be make , they need to be sensitive to the difference they make to those affect by they . one of the reason I be a passionate supporter of Brexit be that I want power to return to the place where it have its effect . I fear , therefore , entirely rationally , that if the default position as a result of the Bill be that we end up with european regulation , it will not be sensitive to its effect but instead will be decide upon far from where the business that it affect be locate . so , give the second issue be about how the measure be scrutinise , I invite the Government to reinvent some kind of European Scrutiny Committee or similar . perhaps we can call it a regulatory scrutiny Committee ; perhaps it may be a body that allow the full consideration of each of the measure that the Government introduce under this umbrella Bill to ensure the House be happy with they and feel they be appropriate and have be tailor in the right way . that might be an amendment that the Government will accept , give that the Secretary of State say he be open - minded about improve the legislation during its passage . the third problem that this Bill have at its heart be the assumption about harmonisation . that term be often use and one should always be terribly fearful when it be , because it ' s usually not about create harmony but about accept control from elsewhere . I worry that that process will snuff out some of the measure that might more usefully be adopt by Government and impose on business and other blunt measure that be insensitive to the particularity that prevail in our country . I do not say that be with intent , as it seem to I that the Secretary of State make clear it be not his intention , but I just fear that it will . the regulatory impact assessment and the explanatory note that we already have seem to imply that . they say , and the Secretary of State repeat this in his opening remark , that there be all kind of change — new rule , new regulation and new restriction — happen at a pace that require the attention of Government , and that pace be so great that it be hard for the Government to keep up . my fear be , therefore , that they will adopt very broad measure rather than one that be sufficiently tailor and sufficiently refine to meet domestic need . with that constitutional problem of the balance between the Executive and Parliament ; with that lack of scrutiny and oversight that come from not have a body that can look at these thing on a one - by - one basis ; and with that tendency to produce broad - brush measure emanating from the European Union , as imply both in the Bill and in support document , I have grave doubt about this legislation . it be true that we should regulate where necessary , of course ; it be right in the public interest that we do so . however , we must always do so with care , because when that regulation become burdensome , when it frustrate innovation and when it temper the ability to produce good that meet popular demand , rather than become helpful to either customer or those that supply they , it inhibit the very thing that support those business and aid those customer . I simply invite the Minister when he sum up to re - emphasise that the Government believe , as I do , in light - touch regulation and in regulation that only apply when there have be appropriate discussion with those affect by it , that there will be a proper dialogue between business and business representative before new measure be introduce , and that all that be introduce will have the character that I have set out : tailor , specific and in the british interest . our role in this place be to defend the national interest . I know that a kind of heady internationalism permeate particular part of this Chamber — I look to my left towards the Liberal Democrats — but I have always think that it be more important to stand up for the british people , to represent my constituent to the good of my ability and to be , as I describe early , sensitive to the particularity of the locale that I represent and the country that I love . be that too much to ask of member of this House ? so , I do not regard my fear about this Bill as irrational , contrary to the hon . member for Walthamstow ' s assertion ; they be deeply rooted in a rational fear of the bad this Bill could bring . good regulation be basically the immune system of our nation , and it be often unseen . when regulation be work well and have the desire effect , we rarely see it happen because it be keep we safe and protect we from those harm that we outsource to the Government to keep watch over for we . it be take the necessary step and measure to make sure that we be safe , the thing we buy be safe , the interaction we have in our community be safe and our child be safe . that regulation be a protection , essentially , and this Bill give the scope and the agility for the Government — any Government — to respond quickly and in a timely manner to new and emerge potential threat that regulation be require to protect we from . I worry when government of any colour — include , unfortunately , that of my own party of late — seek to suggest that regulation be inherently a bad thing , an inhibitor of growth or the heavy hand of the state stop the illustrious bound of enterprise , because it often be not . often it be about a level playing field . it be about create the circumstance where competitor in Stoke - on - Trent have as much opportunity to compete with their competitor around the country or around the world in a way that we understand to be fair , balanced and proportionate . to I , this Bill set we on a course where we be able to do that . there be some area where product regulation and the safety that come with it be lack . if the House will indulge I , I would like once again to talk about ceramic and the ceramic industry because I believe that the product regulatory framework and the exist protection for ceramic — in term of the quality of good that be purchase and also the protection of the level playing field — could benefit hugely from action that the Government could take through the power in the Bill . we have discuss online drop - ship platform many time in this House . these be website that bulk buy thing and sell they into the UK , often at a fraction of the price that people could buy they for in this country , and often fake and forge the identity and brand of british company , without any consideration for what people be actually buy . I be show a great example by a company in Staffordshire , Dunoon ceramic , which make a very particular style of ceramic mug . the mug cost about £ 28 to make and they retail at about £ 35 , sometimes up to £ 50 . an online drop - ship website be sell a fake version — with the same artwork and the same " make in the United Kingdom " sticker and backstamp on the base — into the UK for about £ 10 . we have no idea whether that product be meet the Materials and Articles in Contact with Food ( England ) Regulations 2012 that it be require in this country to meet in order to be consider safe . we have no idea of the level of lead or cadmium in the paint , no idea what the glaze be make of , no idea where the clay have come from and no idea of the condition under which it be make , but it be sell into the UK thousand at a time , undercut the british company . for clarity , I have no idea whether the product be defective , but it could have be , thereby put people at risk . the hon . Gentleman may not know this , but I collect ceramic , by the way , so I be extremely interested in they . he be right that we should support and , indeed , revere the british ceramic industry , but many law already prevent the kind of counterfeiting he describe and other law prevent illegal substance from be use and sell in the manufacture of good . there be a lot of exist statute that protect consumer from the kind of practice he describe . the right hon . Gentleman be correct that there be exist protection for some of the thing I have mention that , if enforce properly , could take those product off the market , but the enforcement of many of our regulatory framework in this country be quite weak . fund for most enforcement agency across this country be — not to make a party political point — reduce under the last Government . I hope this Government will reconsider that because a regulation be only ever as good as the enforcement regime sit behind it . would the hon . member accept that if Ministers get up at 9 o ' clock in the morning and work until 9 o ' clock at night introduce regulation on the basis of this Bill every day , but there be no enforcement or the enforcement be as weak as he say it be on pottery , we would be no well off ? I do not think anybody would disagree with the right hon . Gentleman ' s assessment that if there be no enforcement of regulation , there be no benefit , but we be not say in the Bill that there should be less enforcement . the Bill produce a framework in which the Government can take action to respond to create the good regulation necessary . I will freely admit that what have to come with that be the enforcement arrangement to ensure those new regulation be enforce properly , penalty to deter people seek to circumvent the regulation , and the proper resourcing of enforcement agency so they be equip to take action against those people and company seek to circumvent the law . without that , I fully accept that regulation for the sake of regulation be no good any more than regulation be cut or diverge for the sake of divergence and reduction be any good . it come down to enforcement . to go back to the comment of the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , there be one area in this Bill where government action could bring in a new product protection regulation that would have a huge impact on the ceramic industry . that be around the backstamp on the bottom of a piece of ceramic or pottery . as an avid collector , he will be aware of the importance of those backstamp . in this country , if we turn over any plate , cup or anything make from good - quality british ceramic , we will normally find the word " make in England " and the pottery name underneath it . consumer then know they be buy a premium piece of british - manufacture ceramic that have be make to a suitable product standard that we accept in Stoke - on - Trent be one of the good in the world . it be perfectly plausible , as have be do with some of the fakery , to replicate that phrase when it be not true . the other challenge we have be company that import thing into the United Kingdom augment the wording of that particular backstamp to suggest it have be make in the UK when it have not . it may have be bisque - fire overseas , import and then decorate and glaze in the UK , but it will normally have a company name , the word " England " and the date upon which that historic brand be establish . it give consumer the idea that they be buy a piece of British - make ceramic that would therefore be protect by the normal product regulation when in fact it be not . there be the potential for the Minister to use the new power in the Bill to produce new regulation that say anything produce in the UK that be consider to be ceramic have to have a proper mark on the base that demonstrate where it be make and where it have come from and to demonstrate that it be make in the UK . if a company be not make it in the UK , they become prohibit from put the word " England " or " make in the UK " on it . I be extremely grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way a second time — it be very generous of he . I think that we should jointly sponsor a Bill , Madam Deputy Speaker — the hon . Gentleman and I , not you and I , although we would love for you to be involve . he and I could jointly sponsor a " make in Britain " Bill that would do exactly what he describe . I be not sure that this piece of legislation be necessary to do that , for we have that power in this House as it stand . let we get little crown print on egg again , let we have " make in Britain " print on everything , and let we go back to " Foreign make " , which be formerly widely use . I would love to see " Foreign make " stamp on import good — then people would not buy they ! I be very sorry to disappoint the right hon . Gentleman , but I and a number of my colleague have already present the Ceramics ( Country of Origin Marking ) Bill . he be more than welcome to support it should it ever be give its Second Reading . however , because of the nature of this place and the way private Members ' Bills work , I be realistic about the fact that if we be to see that regulatory protection for british ceramic , it will have to come through a different mechanism . the mechanism in this Bill , which allow the Government to make those protective arrangement through secondary legislation , could increase the protection of british ceramic . my final point be about a level playing field for export . I take the point that the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) make , after I have intervene on the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) , about our regulatory regime and where we want to export . the bulk of the ceramic make in my constituency be export to the EU . we could diverge from the EU food contact material regulation and have a secondary system in this country , but all that would do be create a separate set of regulatory regime for small company with small margin , require they to make product twice . we simply could not stand that burden . before I get attack for be one of those horrible remainer , I urge member to check my voting record during the 2017 to 2019 Parliament . there be time when stick with what we know — the european regulation — absolutely make sense . we should control that , but it make sense to align ourselves where we should . I support the Bill . I hope that the Minister will , as one of his first action with his new power , consider my point about ceramic . if he do not , perhaps he would like to support my Ceramics ( Country of Origin Marking ) Bill . rise — order . if colleague speak for too long , other will be disappoint , so , unofficially , let we try to keep our speech to under 10 minute . anyone listen to the debate would think that it be all about save child from choke on toy , building not burn down because of defective battery in bicycle , save life , safe product , and even the internal market and safeguard the Northern Ireland economy , but it be not about any of that . it be nice to dress it up like that , and I suppose use that kind of language be helpful to make the Bill relevant to constituent , but the Bill be nothing to do with that . time and again member have speak about those kind of issue — battery catch fire , defective toy and so on — but they can and have be deal with already in law . indeed , we have even hear member talk about illegal product be sell , so we do not need some Minister to change the law ; we need someone to ensure that the law in place be enforce . we already have a mechanism to make thing illegal , so if there be gap in the law , we can just use that mechanism . let we not obscure what the debate be all about . it be not about gap and the need to safeguard people . it be all about the Bill ' s agenda , which be to give Ministers additional power . the public see a Government with a majority of over 200 who have be able to drive through legislation that have frustrate and anger they , whether it be take money off pensioner for winter fuel or the legislation that be drive through last week to meet the net zero agenda , which fail to prevent we from buy solar product from China that be make by slave labour . I could go through all the other thing that have make people angry , but a Government with a majority of over 200 now want to take on additional power to allow a Minister to avoid have to come to this House to ensure product safety . I have no doubt that the real reason minister wish to retain that power be that the Government have already set their mind on reset our relation with Europe . they know it be unpopular with many of their supporter . they do not want to have constant scrutiny in this House on a weekly or monthly basis of new regulation that align we with Europe , so it be far well to give Ministers the power to do that quietly , without consultation or a vote in this House . as a number of member have say , the Bill give Ministers the power to do that . indeed , some of the Government ' s own supporter in the House of Lords make the point that the Bill contain the potential for dynamic alignment . the Government have be ambiguous about whether the power will be use to do that , but I be fairly sure that be the main reason . there be little enough opportunity for this House to look at and challenge legislation , but I believe it be wrong for a Bill to allow Ministers , under the cover of darkness , to take we back into arrangement that we have escape from . member have mention Northern Ireland . we know the impact of the EU general product safety regulation already , because they apply in Northern Ireland . business in the rest of the United Kingdom that want to sell their product in Northern Ireland will have to have agent in Northern Ireland . the EU make these law to try to tie other country and company to its regulation . I suspect the excuse the Government will use for pursue dynamic alignment will be , " we ' re do it for the good of business in GB as well as Northern Ireland , because if we ' re align to EU rule , we escape some of the restriction on trade that the EU have impose . " but why do we leave the EU in the first place , and why do many business support leave the EU ? first , the EU introduce costly regulation that do not even need to apply to many business because they never trade with the EU , but they still have to adjust their product to meet the regulation , which incur cost . I be listen with intent to the right hon . Gentleman ' s contribution . it may be that the Government be more innocent than he suggest and that there be not this hide agenda he be describe , but in the word of a Northern Irishman , C . s . Lewis , " of all tyranny , a tyranny sincerely exercise for the good of its victim may be the most oppressive . " even if there be not a hidden agenda , in the end , in the name of the victim — the customer — this will end up be regulatory , bureaucratic and costly . the potential be there , and it have be put in the Bill . I suspect that clause 2 ( 7 ) have be include in the Bill to give that opportunity , if not now , then at some future time . the other reason why business have oppose the implementation of EU regulation and the other danger of dynamic alignment be that many of the law and regulation make in Europe that we may be align ourselves with only get there in the first place because powerful lobby group lobby the European Commission to get regulation impose . those regulation may well suit one particular industry , or even powerful firm within that industry , but they do not necessarily benefit all of business . some have say of the Bill , " oh , this will give certainty to business , " but it may well give business additional cost . give what have happen in Northern Ireland and the way that our market with the rest of the UK have be disrupt , some may think that I would welcome the measure , but I do not welcome they for two reason . first , as I point out to the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , many of the restriction be on good that be not even include in the Bill , as the schedule exclude they . secondly , even if this problem be solve , it do not deal with the issue . we know that because Northern Ireland be subject to the EU single market regulation — 300 area of law , as the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) keep remind we on an almost weekly basis . the issue be that we have allow the United Kingdom to be divide by the deal that be do with Europe . when the previous Government be in power , I warn that this would happen and that Northern Ireland would be the foot in the door . I believe that that will be use as one of the argument for this legislation . the DUP will oppose the legislation because we believe it be not in the interest of the United Kingdom and do not address the problem that be face in Northern Ireland . order . I think it be remiss that the speech by the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) do not have a literary person in it , but he manage to get c . s . Lewis into his intervention . as the Secretary of State say early , I believe I be the first metrologist to be elect to this House in history , so it give I great pleasure to rise to debate the Bill . I take the liberty of check Hansard and until the Secretary of State use the word early , I be the only Member to have ever use the word " metrologist " in the House of Commons . I be proud to be here today and prouder still that the Labour Government have bring forward a Bill feature metrology in the first year of our new Government . Most of the debate have focus on the product regulation in the Bill , but give my background I will focus on the metrology . prior to my election to this place , I be at the University of Nottingham , where I be active in research in metrology for advanced manufacturing , begin with my phd , continue through several more year as a research fellow , and latterly as a senior research fellow . however , like most people I have know in my life , when I begin my phd , I have absolutely no idea what metrology be . indeed , I be sure several colleague in the Chamber do not know what it be before today , and I fear some still do not , so I would like to provide an explanation of the nature of my science , and explain why , contrary to popular assumption , it have nothing to do with cloud . [ interruption . ] please forgive my terrible pun . the international standard , " Vocabulaire international de m é trologie " , formally define metrology as " the science of measurement and its application " , note that " metrology include all theoretical and practical aspect of measurement , whatever the measurement uncertainty and field of application " . it be not the " branch of science concern with the process and phenomenon of the atmosphere , especially as a means of forecast the weather " , which be , of course , meteorology — something I have explain almost every day of my professional career . Metrology broadly encompass the various field of research that seek to develop the science and technology of measurement , be that measurement of any of the seven base quantity from the syst è I international d ' unit é s — the SI — or any of the unit derive from those base quantity . the seven base quantity be , of course , length , mass , time , electric current , thermodynamic temperature , amount of substance and luminous intensity . the great physicist Lord Kelvin once express : " to measure be to know " . he also say : " if you can not measure it , you can not improve it . " those sentiment be rarely more applicable than in the advanced manufacturing industry , where we be interested both in ensure that a manufactured component meet the dimensional specification lay out by its designer and in constantly improve on exist product . metrology be a science that fundamentally underpin all other science . without tool that allow we to measure and know , we can not gain any understanding of the world around we , nor can we improve on it . in the fundamental scientific pursuit of understand our universe , we be most often concerned with the metre , the first of the SI base unit . the metre be define formally by take the fix numerical value of the speed of light in a vacuum , C , to be 299 , 792 , 458 when express in the unit of metre per second and where the second be define in term of the caesium frequency . in fact , that definition change very recently — it come into force in 2018 . the metre be more simply describe by its old definition , which be simply the distance travel by light in a vacuum in a time interval , in second , of one divide by the speed of light . in my opinion , the metre be one of the most beautiful creation in science : it be define by light itself , and it be a creation that allow we in turn to create everything in our world . at the start of this debate , the right hon . member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) ask the House when weight and measure become metrology . the answer to that question be : several thousand year before the common era . behind every great scientific advancement in history , there have be a metrologist . behind the pyramid , there be the first standardise unit of measurement — the royal cubit , define as the length of the pharaoh ' s forearm as measure from the tip of his forefinger to the base of his elbow . the cubit be a technology so advanced that it allow the ancient Egyptians to position the building block of the pyramid with an accuracy almost equal to modern method . thousand of year later , there remain speculation on whether they be in fact build by alien , because of how incredible an achievement that be . they be , of course , build not by alien , but by metrologist . at the start of this debate , as a fellow scientist , I wonder what the difference be between mensuration and metrology . when I be an undergraduate , we do not use the word " metrology " — it seem to be a new word . perhaps my hon . friend can enlighten the Chamber . certainly . it be not a new word as far as I be concern ; I believe it be bring into common parlance in the victorian era . I will move on to some more example . there be the James Webb space telescope — something more modern than the pyramid . it take image of our universe more than 13 billion light year away that be deep , more brilliant and more beautiful than anything we have ever see . behind that , there be the construction of a 6 . 5 - metre mirror , flat to within just a few tenth of billionth of a metre from its high top to its small valley . if we be to expand the size of the 6 . 5 - metre mirror to the size of the Earth , the distance from the high mountain to the deep valley would be of the order of the height of my hip . behind the discovery of gravitational wave , there be a series of interferometer , kilometre in size , which can detect signal from noise at level consider unachievable throughout human history until the past 20 year or so and which be capable of listen to the collision of black hole across spacetime . I hesitate to interrupt the hon . Gentleman , because he be make a wonderful contribution to our affair , which be indicative of the beauty of science , about which we hear too little . before he rush — hurtle , one might say — into the future , can he say a word about the peculiarly british measurement that inform my childhood ? I mean thing such as peck , perch , rod and bushel , for each of those be root in the way that he describe . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his intervention , and I be happy to explain . those particular form of measurement be not in common use any more , but of course many right hon . and hon . member of this House will have grow up with they . broadly , the one that be still in use be define in the modern parlance , but it be important to remember that the modern metric system account for all of those heritage measurement . the common inch , for example , be formally define as 25 . 4 mm , and while I apologise to member across the House , it be important for I to let they know that the pint be formally define as 568 ml . those heritage measurement and , indeed , the entire imperial system be now reference on to the metric system ; define very simply , the imperial system be the metric system . there be no reason why we should not use those historical measurement — where they be useful , they be perfectly valid — but they be formally define with reference to the modern metric system . I will talk more about this shortly . metrology lie at the heart of everything we know , from telescope to speed camera and from knee replacement to jet engine . every single thing make by human hand be design first , construct second and then check by a metrologist to ensure it meet its specification — if we can not know it , we can not improve it . however , ensure that part meet their specification be not simple , as each measurement , dimensional or otherwise , have an associate measurement uncertainty . that be a non - negative parameter characterise the dispersion of the quantity value be attribute to the thing be measure , base on the information use . estimation of measurement uncertainty be a complex procedure — one that form much of my career prior to come to this place — and be usually perform in line with the " Guide to the expression of uncertainty in measurement " . uncertainty estimation be generally perform by make measurement that be traceable to the definition of the SI metre — when we be concern with the metre . again , the " Vocabulaire international de m é trologie " define traceability as a property of a measurement result whereby the result can be relate to a reference through a document , unbroken chain of calibration , each contribute to the overall measurement uncertainty . traceable measurement allow for the successful estimation of uncertainty and be generally a base requirement for the verification of manufacture good . traceability be consider by the international community to be the only mean by which evidence can be provide towards a give product fulfil the requirement set out by its designer . to provide an example , let we consider a length measurement make between two face of a manufactured part , such as a Rubik ' s cube . imagine that I be hold a Rubik ' s cube — I could not possibly have bring a prop , Madam Deputy Speaker . the length between two face could be measure by a calliper . that calliper would be calibrate use a measurement artifact , most commonly a metal cuboid call a gauge block . that gauge block would in turn be calibrate by a more accurate instrument , which itself be calibrate use a more accurate gauge block . that more accurate gauge block would then be calibrate with reference to an optical interferometer use a laser source . that laser source be finally calibrate against the iodine - stabilise laser that be use to realise the definition of the metre , so traceability be establish from the shop floor measurement all the way up to the definition of the metre by an unbroken chain of calibration . it feel impertinent to intervene , because my hon . friend be give a hugely passionate speech about a subject he clearly know so much about , but how can he can help the next generation of metrologist to be as inspire about this topic as he clearly be ? that be very kind , and I thank my hon . friend very much for his intervention . if he wish , I have a 97 - slide lecture that I would be more than happy to deliver afterwards . nobody wish for the 97 slide , Mr Thompson . do not worry , Madam Deputy Speaker — it be not one for today . I be nearly finished . each stage of the traceability chain have some discernible uncertainty , which generally increase as we move down that chain and instrument accuracy decrease . estimation of uncertainty at each link in the chain be essential ; it be impossible to have a traceable measurement without the inclusion of an uncertainty with that measurement . when apply in manufacturing , traceability allow we to create anything we can imagine within the confine of our choose manufacturing process . it be the cornerstone of our modern manufacturing industry . through this Bill , the Government seek to update metrology regulation and the mean by which those regulation be enforce . we have hear at great length different opinion about that process , but the Government be today ensure conformity with SI , ensure uniformity in the measurement , sale , monitoring and quantity of good . far , they be ensure that the Secretary of State and other appropriate body have the power they require to inspect and enforce that conformity . the Bill will ensure that UK law be update to recognise new or update international regulation and keep we at the cutting edge of science and regulation . member say early in the debate how the UK be at the forefront of regulation . I spend many year on standard committee work through these thing . every standard committee I ever work on feed into the british standard , which feed into the european standard and the international standard . those be the framework we be update today to ensure that we remain at the forefront . it will mean cost saving for business and it will promote regulatory stability . finally , the provision lay out in this Bill continue the work begin by the ancient Egyptians — the work that allow we to build everything from the great pyramid to the phone in our pocket , the paper that we hold in our hand and indeed the very floor on which we stand today . our work today will ensure that the bulb that light this room be of an appropriate brightness , that the air that we breathe and that surround we be of an appropriate temperature , and that we can finally get a fairly measure full beverage of exactly 568 ml in the pub . I support this Bill wholeheartedly . follow that , Jerome Mayhew . I do not think I can ; I think that be an absolutely brilliant speech . I feel like a party - pooper , because I be go to drag the debate back to the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill , and I can only apologise . I be go to assert boldly that I be the only Member of this House who have sit on a standard committee and draft european regulation , but I stand correct . there be now two of we . at first glance , the Bill look tiny . there be just four clause on product regulation and four substantive clause on metrology . there be a reason why it be so tiny : it do not actually say anything . there be no description of the change anticipate by this legislation . there be no example of what need to be address . there be no indication of the direction behind any future decision — nothing . member , particularly those on the Government Benches , have refer to e - bike and e - scooter , electrical safety , defective toy and lithium - ion battery , to name just a few , but not a single one of those thing be in the Bill . they could be . this could be a regulation Bill try to fix the problem that have be identify , but none of that be there . bad than that , there be no explanation for the silence . the Bill simply make a request of this House — of we , as parliamentarian — by say , " please give I , the Minister , the power to change primary legislation through regulation , include the power to create new and novel criminal offence . " this be the very definition of a skeleton Bill , where almost all the substance be leave to regulation . that be contrary to an establish convention in this House and the other place that the principal aspect of policy should be in a Bill , and only its detailed implementation leave to delegate legislation . that be an established principle of our legislature . if we wish to depart from that , there need to be a very good reason . in exceptional circumstance , there be good reason , but be there exceptional circumstance here ? the issue be pick up immediately in what prove to be a hostile reception in the other place on Second Reading on 8 October last year . that be follow by a review on 15 October by the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee , which be not some right - wing conspiracy theory group . this be not " Brexit or die " ; it be chair by Labour . it be chair by Baroness Ramsey , and it be a cross - party Committee . by the way , in another role , she be the senior adviser to the Labour party on standard and ethic , yet her report have be entirely ignore by this Government , because it be damn in its conclusion . it say that government guidance be that skeleton legislation should be use only in the most exceptional circumstance , but that test be " fail " by this draft legislation . as a result , that cross - party Committee , chair by Labour , make the recommendation that clause 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 6 and 9 all be remove . those be the substantive clause right through the Bill , on both side . that be a stinging indictment of this category of draft legislation . however , the Committee member be so concerned that they do not leave it at that . the following day , they take the exceptional step of summon the Minister and his official to give oral evidence . that be very rare , and it be the first time for three year that it have happen . the Committee member be clearly unimpressed by the answer — the attempt explanation — that they be give , because in a subsequent report , on 28 October , they report that the Minister and his official have " fail to provide a convincing justification " . as a result of that second damn indictment of the Government ' s approach , there be some movement : the removal of some Henry VIII power , and the addition of a duty to consult , at least in the first instance . however , other Henry VIII power remain , and the duty to consult refer only to the first instance , not to any secondary attempt . the Committee then produce a third report , on the Bill in its current form . it say that " the delegation to Ministers of law - make power in this Bill involve legislative power shift to an unacceptable extent from the democratically appoint legislature to the Executive " , and also that " the Government have fail to provide a convincing justification for the inclusion of skeleton clause in the Bill " . actually , I think the Government do understand what they be do , because the Bill give Ministers the power to make politically contentious decision about the degree to which domestic law on product regulation and , indeed , on metrology should be align with EU law . that be the real reason behind the Bill : the fear of EU alignment by the back door . my experience in this place — I be mindful of what my hon . friend have say already — be that there be two type of Bill to beware of . the first be the Bill whose provision be so permissive , so broad , lack the tailored approach that I describe early , as to allow law to be apply in a way that be not expect by those who debate it as it pass through the House . the second be the Bill that make specific provision for delegate legislation — for subsequent action by the Government . those two type of legislation be legislation to beware of , and I say that to member on both side of the House , have see government of all kind introduce such Bills which become , in the end , bad law . of course I agree with my right hon . friend , and that come to the nub of what I want to say . yes , inevitably we be party politician . we have the official Opposition , we have the Government , and we have those who sit on the left - hand side of the official Opposition . above that , however , we be parliamentarian , and some of we be quite new . I may look old , and indeed I be , but I be first elect in 2019 , and an awful lot of member in the Chamber who may be vote tonight be even less experienced than I . it take a while to begin to understand the difference between the role of the legislature and the role of the Executive , and my profound concern be that we be at risk of hand very significant power from ourselves , the legislature , to the Executive . have hear these comment several time , I wonder whether the hon . Member will accept that wisdom be not necessarily proportional to the amount of time spend in the Chamber . the convention of the House , and the convention of the legislature , can not be brush aside by a flip comment like that . there be reason why we have convention . there be a separation of power between the Executive and the legislature , and the power to create legislation lie with we . there be ground , sometimes , on which we can give it to Ministers , but there must be really sensible reason for that to be do , and there simply be not in this instance . I have be follow the hon . member ' s argument closely . it be certainly the case that , with or without wisdom , the House be capable of make poor decision . I have vote for measure and against they on occasion , and the House have make poor decision . however , it be much more likely that the House will get it right , rather than a delegate legislation Committee deal with a statutory instrument where a Minister come along and read out a brief that she or he often do not understand , as be reveal under questioning — if , indeed , question take place . the argument for the Bill be really to do with speed and capacity . we do not meet to vote on Thursdays , but we often do on Mondays . there be plenty of time for the House to do this . I entirely agree . I do an analysis , and 48 . 3 % of sit day since the general election have be on one - line whip , so there be no ground for the Government to assert that they do not have time to put forward fresh legislation . it simply be not the case , and they do not have a legislative agenda that they be progress with any urgency . there be plenty of room , and if we need to regulate , we can do it . we have a big decision to take as parliamentarian . we be be ask by the Government to nod through a blank cheque — a blank cheque that be in breach of our parliamentary convention . it be against the express advice of the cross - party Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee not once , not twice , but three time . I say to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that any parliamentarian worthy of the name will vote against this Bill . as have be say , on the face of it this be a short Bill , but when we look beneath the surface , it be even more exciting than the bare title of the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill suggest . Most of we go through our day without give much thought to the measurement of the unit that govern our everyday life — I confess that , until very recently , I be one of they — but so many of our scientific and medical advance have succeed or fail on the most precise margin , as my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) so brilliantly set out . it be a real privilege to be in the Chamber to listen to his speech . in the city of Birmingham , well know throughout much of its history as the workshop of the world , many million of hour must have be sweat out to meet the fine of measurement and tolerance . I suspect my hon . friend be capable of accurately estimate just how many hour that would have take . however , I note in pass that one of just two remain proof house , which fall under the scope of the Gun Barrel Proof Act 1868 and succeed act — they attract a lot of attention in the other place — be in Digbeth in the city of Birmingham . at the start of my hon . friend ' s speech , he raise the question of when exactly the word " metrology " enter common parlance . I do not know what that date be , but I note that when the National Physical Laboratory be create in 1900 , it be establish with a metrology division . one of the early guide force , Mr J . E . sear , later find a second career as a scales manufacturer , again in the good city of Birmingham . today , when pharmaceutical manufacturing job be start to return to my constituency , 20 year on from the collapse of MG Rover , I know some of the exact standard that those manufacturer must meet . we need only look at the number of Weights and Measures Acts pass by this House down the year to understand the importance of these question for our role as legislator . I fear that I be about to commit an unwise act by reference Magna Carta in this place , as that text have be the subject of one or two interesting email that I suspect a number of hon . member have also receive , but it be tell that it stipulate : " there be to be a single measure for wine throughout our realm , and a single measure for ale , and a single measure for Corn … and it shall be the same for weight as for measure . " in the other place , and it be fair to say in this place as well , the argument over the Bill have come down to a simple point : be delegate power and statutory instrument the right process for adapt to a rapidly change landscape for product safety and international measurement standard ? it be worth remember two thing . first , the theory that we could make sufficient update through primary legislation can be test against the history of legislation in this place . for example , some of the provision in the Consumer Protection Act 1987 have be overtake by event , and it have prove hard in practice to bring forward the necessary change to that legislation . secondly , as have be say , this work be initiate by the last Government , who at the time make the case for delegate power persuasively . as the 2021 response to the 2019 call for evidence state : " over time , the limited power we retain in domestic legislation become less effective . rather than update these , the UK rely on power in the European Communities Act ( ECA ) 1972 to introduce new harmonised legislation to deal with product safety and metrology . " those power have now expire . government of all colour must deal with " a complex , forever change landscape " and current legislation do " not allow for many of the change necessary to keep pace with technological advance and modern hazard . " a good example of the ever - change metrological field can be draw from the 2019 change to the international system of quantity , which alter in subtle way the definition of the kilogram , the amp , the kelvin and the mole , with implication across a very wide range of regulation . I think it be sensible to update those definition swiftly by regulation . we have hear example of some of the unsafe product that be on sale at the moment . it be worth note that the Bill be not simply about definition , but enforcement . clause 3 will enable some of those stretch resource , to which my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) refer , to go far . I also note that through the Transport Committee I receive representation from Brompton Bicycle , a very good british manufacturing success story , which say that UK product safety regulation and enforcement have fail to keep pace with the development of e - bike technology . unsafe , poor quality e - bike product be enter the hand of UK consumer with sometimes devastating consequence . my hon . friend be make an excellent point . many constituent around the country will appreciate the specific point he make about the change product environment , and the way that product design and development be move very quickly . I have a large number of resident who be concerned about e - bike be ride irresponsibly , home - make kit attach to bicycle , and cyclist often speed on pavement . that be an interesting example of how the Bill could be very effective , so I thank he for his work on that . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . I know that be one of the area to which he pay a lot of attention in the transport brief . I be sure that as the Committee continue to look into this area , it will build on that work . as he say , this be an issue that come up time and again in my constituency . we might not ever be able to get every single one of those vehicle off the road , but we need the power to bring more of they off our street where they pose a threat to people ' s safety . to illustrate the seriousness of the challenge the Government face and the need sometimes for very swift progress , we need only to look to the scale of technological advancement in the field of hybrid warfare and the implication of those advancement for dual - use civilian technology . I note that clause 1 ( 4 ) ( d ) draw specific attention to product that can " cause , or be susceptible to , electromagnetic disturbance . " in Ukraine , the two adversary be lock into a cycle of innovation and reaction in drone warfare and electronic countermeasure that be escalate at a blind speed . some of those development have implication for the potential misuse of civilian drone in this country . to suggest that primary legislation be capable of keep pace with that be not realistic . similarly , in respect of intangible product , again an issue on which the House of Lords spend a large amount of welcome scrutiny time , there be a case that primary legislation can not cover enough eventuality in good time , especially in the age of artificially generate code . I think back to the Volkswagen emission scandal 10 year ago , when so - call " defeat device " be intangible in nature . the hon . Gentleman be make a brilliant speech and he have focus on some of the key issue in way that not every speech have . he make a powerful case , but why do he think that those argument have not persuade , in three different attempt in three different report , the cross - party Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee , which provide expert insight into precisely such propose legislation ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention , although I do not agree with his characterisation of the speech we have hear today . I think hon . member have bring a wide range of perspective , and that even though there have be some disagreement across the House — and , on occasion , on the same Benches — all member have make their point sincerely . I have read the report the right hon . gentleman reference and the Minister ' s evidence . my reading of that report be that the Committee hold a very strong view on the principle of skeleton delegate legislation , but the point it make be that the case must be make for the use of such power . my view be that the case have be make in this instance because of the seriousness of the matter we be discuss . I refer the hon . gentleman to the conclusion of the fourth report by the expert Committee , which state : " we remain of the view … that the Government have fail to provide a convincing justification for the inclusion of skeleton clause in this Bill that give Ministers such wide power to re - write in regulation the substance of the regulatory regime for product and metrology . " he be wrong in his assessment , be he not ? no . with respect , I think the hon . Gentleman have misunderstand my point . the Committee have every right to express that view ; we also have the right to express our view as legislator in this place as to whether the case have be make . as I say , I think the case have be make that primary legislation be not a sufficient vehicle in this instance . I will just say to the hon . Gentleman that there be numerous precedent under the Health and Safety at Work etc . Act 1974 , for example , for regulate dangerous product ; the difference be that primary legislation do not cover all the eventuality for product of the kind we be discuss today . I will finish by talk about the pint . I note , in pass , that the first legislation to clearly regulate the pint — the Act for the ascertaining the Measures for retail Ale and Beer of 1698 — do not see it as necessary to define the actual quantity ; perhaps it be leave to royal prerogative to define . the history book do clearly show that the pint be safe , so to speak , in Labour ' s hand : in his memoir of his time at head of the no . 10 policy unit , the noble Lord Donoughue detail how Harold Wilson intervene to save the pint ; and it be a Labour Government in 2008 who secure the metric opt - out that preserve the inch , the troy ounce and , of course , the pint . I know that hon . and right hon . member on the Opposition Benches have spend a lot of time chase away phantom on this particular issue , and I hope that they feel that be a good use of their time and that we see more of it in this Parliament . for the Government Benches , however , I look forward to follow the progress of this important Bill and to vote for it tonight , and perhaps also to raise a pint — or , as clause 5 ( 5 ) have it , 0 . 56826125 cubic decimetre — to the Bill ' s good health as it complete its remain stage in this House . forgive I for bring the Commons back to the purpose of Parliament . its historic purpose be to make law for our constituent and to hold the Executive to account . that be the fundamental that have be loosen by this Bill . although it be entirely skeletal in form , the Bill ' s effect be very far - reach indeed . it be quite obvious that the Bill have a clear purpose , which be to align Great Britain with the EU single market on good . if it be not so , we would not have clause 2 ( 7 ) . the standard that be set in that clause be the EU standard . if the Bill be just about create the opportunity to make regulation because of a regulatory gap , it would not be tethered to the EU provision on good . it would be open end , and we would be free to make the choice that well suit we . however , the giveaway clause in the Bill be clause 2 ( 7 ) . that let the cat out of the bag , as indeed do the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) when she quite clearly indicate that that be the direction of travel that she seek . therefore , that be the purpose . when we look at clause 1 ( 2 ) , we again have the open affirmation of the desire to make the compliance with " relevant EU law " , so it be abundantly clear that this be a creation to realign we with EU law . the intent be to create this vehicle for realignment without voter notice . of course that mean realignment with law that we do not make and that we can not change because they be make by a foreign Parliament . the ambition in this Bill in respect of clause 2 ( 7 ) be to disenfranchise — as have happen already in Northern Ireland by our subjugation to the EU single market and all its rule — the people of the United Kingdom , so that , in their entirety , they be at the Government ' s whim and can be subject to law they do not make and can not change . that then inextricably tie we to the European Court of Justice . it be the ECJ that mediate and deliberate on those law that this Bill wish to tie we to . therefore , it be an attempt to tie we not just to the EU single market , but to the court that rule the EU ' s single market . on the point the hon . and learn Gentleman be make about enfranchisement and the fact that he wish this Parliament to be in control of the power that it have , do he agree that it would be sensible for the UK Government to ensure that , where power be devolve to the Scottish Parliament , for example , they seek consent from Scottish Ministers rather than just legislate ? the Bill , as currently draft , allow Ministers here to legislate in area of devolved competency , much as he be make the case that the EU court would be allow to do . one critical thing about the Bill be that , under the Sewel convention , it do not extend to secondary legislation . it do not extend to statutory instrument . the Bill drive a coach and horse through the Sewel convention as far as devolution be concern , because it heap all the power into statutory instrument . one might expect such a bold move to realign the United Kingdom with EU law to be an up - front piece of legislation . I do not think that that be too much to ask — that it should be plain and clear for all to see . instead , it be to be convey in these statutory instrument . and statutory instrument , as we know , be those that , in the main , pass through unnoticed . we have all be to Delegated Legislation Committees . we know that they be farcical in that the Minister come in with a brief , which be simply rigidly read , and Members nod the motion through . it be a farcical way to make legislation of any sort . much of this debate have be about whether this Bill lead we to dynamic alignment . the Government ' s position be that it do not and that this be all a mirage and a fantasy . if that be the case , do the hon . and learn Member agree that a simple amendment to this Bill to make that clear would go a long way to reassure member . absolutely . if the Government be not — as many of we suspect — follow a deliberate approach of circumvent debate in this House on key realignment issue , and be seek rather to channel it through statutory instrument , then call our bluff , change this Bill in that regard . but this idea of skeleton legislation , which set up the power that have be take from Parliament and give to the Executive , be something which , historically , this party of Government have rail against . indeed , within a week of Second reading in the other place , the Attorney General give the Bingham lecture . he say : " excessive reliance on delegate power , Henry VIII clause , or skeleton legislation , upset the proper balance between Parliament and the executive . this not only strike at the rule of law value … but also at the cardinal principle of accessibility and legal certainty . in my view , the new Government offer an opportunity for a reset in the way that Government think about these issue . this mean , in particular , a much sharp focus on whether take delegate power be justify in a give case , and more careful consideration of appropriate safeguard . " that be the Attorney General . where do that go to ? I be interested in the Attorney General ' s view , and we should take it seriously . do the hon . and learn Gentleman recognise that primary legislation in this place metamorphosis in its passage through scrutiny ? I have be involve in many Bills , as shadow Minister , Minister and Back Bencher , and that be precisely what happen . minister listen to argument , and as Bills return to the House , they reflect that argument both from here and in the Lords . secondary legislation do not go through that process . that be why it be so important that the Bills we pass here do not contain the kind of permissive power that facilitate so much secondary legislation . the right hon . member be absolutely right . if one want to realign the United Kingdom with the EU , the easy passage would be by statutory instrument . that be why that be the choose mechanism here . I have one final point . this Parliament traditionally and properly make the law on criminal offence . we set the tariff . sometimes we say what the minimum penalty for a criminal offence be , but we always say what the maximum penalty be . we say what the content be of the criminal offence — what be the actus reus and the men rea . but amazingly under clause 3 ( 9 ) and 3 ( 11 ) and clause 6 ( 9 ) and 6 ( 11 ) of the Bill we be go to make criminal offence by statutory instrument . surely we have lose the run of ourselves if we think it be appropriate to make criminal offence in that essentially uncontrolled manner . it deprive this House , and therefore those we represent , of the very careful scrutiny that should always go into make something a crime . that be but another of the fundamental flaw of this undeserve Bill . order . Dr Prinsley , I be tell that your speech be just a few minute long , so I hope you will honour that . I welcome this Bill , which will address the alarming proliferation of unsafe product in online marketplace . I would like to talk particularly about the hazard of unsafe toy , which be increasingly be sell online . as a very recently retire ear , nose and throat surgeon — yesterday actually — I know the very real harm that these dangerous toy cause . I have operate on young child who inhale small component from unsafe toy , detachable part or part that be unsafely secure and be a choke hazard , and ribbon or string that exceed the legal limit , create strangulation hazard . these be frightening life - threaten situation that no family should have to put up with . those be not isolate incident . a which ? investigation find that over 90 % of toy purchase from some online marketplace be unfit for sale in the UK . shockingly , these toy falsely display UK and european safety mark , mislead parent into believe that they be buy something safe for their child . the tragedy be that in many of these case the seller simply disappear , vanish from the platform , and the family be leave with no way to seek redress from the harm cause . that be why we must act . I be glad that the Bill will give the Government the opportunity to address this issue . it will give they the power to regulate new and emerge business model and marketplace , which previous law do not allow . lithium - ion battery be essential for achieve our net zero goal , but as demand grow for product contain such battery we need to do more to protect consumer against dangerous lithium - ion battery . since 2020 , e - bike and e - scooter fire have — order . it be an intervention , not a speech . do the hon . Member agree that there should be a mechanism to recognise and regulate high - risk product so that we can protect consumer ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention . I would point out the particular danger of button battery — something that be well know to ENT surgeon — which cause perforation of the oesophagus and the trachea by a chemical reaction . in the last two year , 95 % of consumer have purchase from online platform , with approximately 23 million monthly transaction in UK . we certainly need strong accountability for these marketplace . without that , dangerous item will continue to resurface , put child at risk . I urge the House to ensure that the Bill put more pressure on the seller of unsafe toy , force they to take responsibility for their action . you be an honourable man . it be a pleasure to take part in the debate . we have have excellent speech from across the House . I think the whole House agree on the brilliance of the speech make by the hon . member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , and — perhaps I would say this — great speech have come from Opposition Members in particular . my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) , the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) and the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) get to the heart and the nub of the critique of the Bill . we have also hear many good speech , include the last one , about issue of product safety and the need to have a system that can keep up . the speech that address both that issue and whether the Bill be appropriate — it be the outstanding speech by a Government Member — be make by the hon . member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) . he do not like my praise of his speech in so far as it disparage in any way anybody else ' s , but he face up to the issue directly . he do not just say , " well , there be these problem with product and product safety , and here ' s a Bill that could do something about it . " he deal with the fact that the Bill give enormous power to Ministers . as colleague across the House have point out , the purpose of this honourable House be to hold the Executive ' s foot to the fire , hold they to account and hold they in check , and ensure that we champion the will of the people who send we here . as have be say , not only the Minister but , back in 2018 , the Secretary of State warn the House that " the use of delegate power carry a risk of abuse by the Executive " . – – [ Official Report , Taxation ( Cross - border Trade ) Public Bill Committee , 1 February 2018 ; c . 305 . ] the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) be not here , so I will try to be more polite than I would have be if she be , but if Brexit derangement syndrome be a condition , it be one that affect not only people who be maniacally in favour of Brexit , but those who seem unable to think rationally from the other side . the point that I try to make to the hon . Lady in an intervention — I would make it again — be that give such untrammelled power to Ministers be frightening , regardless of whether we prefer close alignment with the EU . she say that we need common - sense alignment , but these power would allow a super - ideological future Minister to come in and seek , entirely for ideological reason , to stop any alignment with the most sensible of EU regulation purely to have some Brexit difference . that make no sense whatsoever . rise — I will press on a little , but I may come back to the hon . Lady . I understand that , follow the loveless landslide that bring the Government to power , the Government , and Government Members , have do an about - face . they now delight in more power for the Executive , so much so that the Bill ' s very first subsection give the same Secretary of State I just reference the power to make regulation anywhere in the UK , without consult Parliaments in Westminster , Holyrood , Cardiff Bay or Stormont , on more or less anything he like . I be so pleased that the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim raise the devolution question . I be a Minister for eight year , and such be the complexity of the devolution settlement now that even with thousand of civil servant work on primary legislation , Ministers can come to the House and suddenly it get point out to they that they be in breach of the Sewel convention and ignore how Northern Ireland have a slightly different environmental or energy regulatory environment from Scotland or Wales . they find that the situation be more complex than they first think . now , we be give power to Ministers who will not have to go through any of that rigmarole . they will not get to find out how they be trample on the devolution settlement , and that be a serious issue . we on the Opposition Benches can make the argument , but what we must really do be engage Government Members and get they to recognise that they be not here just to back the Government . they need to question these thing , and not just ask whether the power could be use for good . the hon . member for Birmingham Northfield give a brilliant speech with example of the speeding up and pace of technological change — I think he speak about the drone in Ukraine . even though Opposition Members may maintain that the system that we have work perfectly well , he make the case that perhaps we need something speedy go forward , and I can see that he make a strong argument . none the less , be the answer just to hand to Ministers , in this skeleton Bill , all the power in the world ? I suggest that it be not . I know the Minister and the Secretary of State be decent people , and I hope that we will see , as the legislation proceed through this House , way to curb some of the power while allow we to have a regulatory system that can speedily respond to inappropriate product . none of we want to see parliamentary pride get in the way of an effective system ; we have to find a way of make thing work . this Bill , however , go too far the other way . that be why the cross - party expert on the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Committee have look at it and say that they do not feel that the case have be make to justify such massive power . some parallel be raise by the hon . member for Walthamstow , and I think it be fair enough to say , " look at the way that Henry VIII power and delegate power be take by the Government in the last Parliament . " quite rightly , people question it , but that be about implement Brexit ; it really be something enormous that have to be do at a reasonable speed . those of we involve be cognisant of the fact that we do not want it to set a precedent ; we do not want Government to take the unique condition of implement Brexit and take it as a new way of govern . to the comment from the hon . member for Erewash about rebuild the world that the ancient Egyptians have , they be very good at centralise authority and I do not think that that be an entirely good thing . that be exactly what the Bill do , so I agree with he on that . I be sure the Secretary of State be an excellent judge of thing such as the safe operation of a laptop , say , for a trainee solicitor , but he will now have the power to regulate any product for sale in the UK on the basis of safety or functionality . the immense power give to he will allow he to decide what be and be not sell in the UK , without consult this place and by merely provide a write statement . the Bill go far , with minister acquire the power to give inspector the right to enter somebody ' s home to seize any product that the Minister have decide , on the basis of non - compliance . that can be impose on manufacturer , marketer , installer , importer or people who run an online marketplace , the definition of which , by the way , can be alter on a ministerial whim and at any point . we have hear about dangerous and often unpopular electric bike and scooter , but the power in the Bill allow a future Secretary of State — we have have some eccentric one in the past — to decide to ban bicycle because he consider they to be dangerous . he might look at the figure on that . after publish a statement , he could instruct anyone he like to enter the house of every bike owner and every bike shop to seize every bike in the United Kingdom . the Secretary of State could effectively end cycling in the UK without come to Parliament . he could create legion of cycle inspector who could enter people ' s home or business and seize their property before dispose of it . and the Government want to hide this act under the innocuous name of the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill . it be a massive power to give to the Secretary of State . I say this to the many new Labour Members : I be not very keen on any Government , even the one of which I be a member . it be Lord Acton who say : " power tend to corrupt and absolute power corrupt absolutely . " well , there be an element of absolute power in this Bill , but we have an opportunity both to recognise the powerful case make by the hon . member for Birmingham Northfield for an appropriate system and by his colleague talk about different challenge , and to make sure that we limit and reduce those power as the Bill go through the House . I know that my cycle example be a little extreme , but it be also true . it would not require the Government to return to this House ; they would be able to do it . the Prime Minister have tell we that the no . 1 mission of this Government be growth , yet his Ministers , not satisfied with take the fast grow economy in the entire g7 and bring it to a shudder halt , have introduce what may be the most tediously name but potentially dangerous Bill in the history of Parliament . we can look at what the Government have do for business so far . they have end the rate relief for hospitality , make part - time worker too expensive to hire , hike the cost of employ people through next week ' s job tax , strengthen the trade union and make it impossible to fire new worker . I would not want to exaggerate this Bill ' s role , but in a crowded field , it take the biscuit in many way . business be struggle to cope with all these thing already , and now we will have great business uncertainty cause by the fact that Ministers can , on a whim , choose which product can and can not be sell . this will provide the exact opposite of the certainty that Labour Members suggest the Bill could bring , in a way that have no logic behind it . every single one of the measure in that infamous list that my right hon . friend just go through require a vote in this House , and Labour Members have to put their name to each propose legislative change . they will not have to do that under this legislation , will they ? they will not . the Secretary of State — not the current wonderful , benign , insightful and genial Secretary of State , but a future rather less palatable one — could wake up one day and impose new regulation on business that effectively strangle and bring red tape to every business in the land . remember how close we be in 2017 to have a government that would have be very different from the one that be opposite we today , or indeed from the Conservatives . why be the Government do this ? I can not look into a man ' s soul , but I have an idea , because Labour spend year fight the UK ' s attempt to remove the burden of regulation on business after we leave the EU . at every turn , Labour try to cling to nurse rather than let business innovate and sell their good . this government be seek to undermine and erode the freedom we have win over the last few year . indeed , that be in black and white in the Bill . the Secretary of State may reimpose EU law on product without the requirement to come to this place and ask our permission to do so . I be not say that this be the bad thing the Government have do . as I have say , there be quite a packed list , include cut the winter fuel payment for pensioner , the farm tax , the job tax , impose stamp duty on first - time buyer , which come in , I think , today — [ interruption . ] suddenly someone want to buy a house . there be also the hospitality tax . I could go on , but executive power be at their most pernicious when they have no limit . this legislation be not about metrology or about the well regulation of product ; it be about give the Government the power to do what they like , when they like , for reason they do not have to explain , and then impose it as they see fit . the fact that we might like , and even trust , the current Secretary of State be no reason to give power like this to Ministers about whom we know nothing now . I hope that Labour Members will join we in oppose this Bill . this have be a genuinely important , interesting and lively debate on product regulation and metrology . it have also be a debate about the balance of power between the Executive and we here in Parliament . the UK product safety and metrology framework be derive from European Union law and it develop while the UK be a member of the EU , when we do not have the opportunity here to address product safety in our change world as rapidly as we do now . follow our departure from the European Union , the UK establish its independent regulatory system , which must be flexible enough to accommodate emerge technology , such as artificial intelligence , and address change in consumer purchasing behaviour . as the Bill ' s explanatory note state , its purpose be to ensure that the UK be well equip to tackle modern safety challenge , safeguard consumer , seize opportunity for economic growth and so on . the Secretary of State say in his introductory remark that the Bill be introduce in the previous Parliament , and I want to emphasise that it be not . I want to offer the Minister the chance to correct the record in his closing remark , in case the House have be inadvertently mislead . upon leave the European Union , the UK create the UK conformity assess marking , know as the UKCA , to replace the conformit é Europ é enne mark , know as the CE . these marking be use by manufacturer to demonstrate product conformity . the UK still recognise CE marking ; however , the EU do not recognise the UKCA . will the Minister confirm that discussion be happen with the EU , include the resetting of discussion on trade , to ensure that UKCA marking and any product regulate here in the UK be mutually recognise ? turn to the point raise in today ' s excellent debate , we hear fantastic speech from my right hon . friend the Members for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) and for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , and my hon . friend the Members for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) and for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) . we also hear powerful voice from Northern Ireland on the adjacent Benches , from the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) and the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) . we also hear the expertise that the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) bring from his background in the toy industry . from the Labour Benches , we hear impassioned speech often about product safety , include from the hon . member for Worsley and Eccles ( Michael Wheeler ) , for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) and for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) . she describe we as sinner repent , which I hasten to surmise might mean that she be a repenter beginning to sin . we hear from the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , who be a passionate advocate for ceramic from his constituency . we have the pleasure of hear a masterclass from Parliament ' s first metrologist , the hon . member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , on the ancient history of metrology ; it be a very enjoyable speech . we hear speech from the hon . member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) and for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) . before embark on the reason why we will oppose the Bill tonight , I welcome the Government ' s u - turn in the other place on their plan to rule over the size of the great british pint or , as the hon . member for Erewash would describe it , 0 . 56826125 cubic decimetre . although they be initially resistant , Ministers eventually recognise that our great british pint should remain untouched . I be afraid that that be all I can welcome about this piece of legislation , because the opposition be deeply concerned with the Government ' s overreach and excessive reliance on delegate power within the Bill . Henry VIII would be absolutely delighted by this piece of legislation . Labour Members claim that it will simplify our regulatory framework , yet all we see be the undermining of our sovereignty and the power of Parliament . this 15 - page Bill would give the Secretary of State unchecked power to amend product safety regulation , change the definition of an online marketplace and introduce new penalty , inspection power and charge on business , drive up the already soar cost of do business in the UK . as many hon . friend have say , it would grant the Government sweep power to make we a passive recipient of law make in Brussels . international trade and co - operation be welcome , but this be not what more than 17 million people vote for in 2016 , when we take back control — it be a betrayal of Brexit . the Bill be not purely technical ; part of its purpose be to allow the dynamic alignment of good with EU single market law , give the EU the power to rule on standard for manufacture good produce in the United Kingdom . this EU Trojan horse Bill could see we readopte a regulatory regime over which we have no influence , input or sanction , leave we as rule taker , not rule maker . it be fundamentally not good practice or good governance to deliver substantial change through delegate legislation . " we must bear in mind that the use of delegate power carry a risk of abuse by the Executive , which be not something the opposition could ever support . rather , it be our duty at this stage to check the power of the Executive and ensure that we be not give they carte blanche to change the balance of power permanently in their favour . " – – [ Official Report , Taxation ( Cross - border Trade ) Public Bill Committee , 1 February 2018 ; c . 305 . ] these be not my word but those of the Secretary of State . tomorrow , the United States could impose tariff on we . it be paramount that we secure a mutually beneficial UK - US trade deal as soon as possible , but I can not see how the Bill , which drag we close to the European Union , would give the United States any incentive to work with we . in closing , let I ask the Minister a few question . can he confirm what the limit will be on ministerial power ? what oversight will Parliament have of regulatory change make under the Bill ? what consultation will occur with the real - world business that be affect by the change ? will he confirm that no regulation make under the Bill will prevent or impede UK business from trade internationally ? the Bill undermine Parliament and risk tie british business to EU red tape on which we have no say . we can not allow these excessive power to create further uncertainty among british business of all size , which already face the soar cost of do business because of the Chancellor ' s tax grab . the Bill be a parliamentary sovereignty sell - out . we get Brexit do ; let we keep it that way . the Bill give away control , and that be why I call on the House to back our amendment and stop it . I thank right hon . and hon . member from across the House for what have be an interesting and , at time , inform debate on the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State say in opening , the Government ' s primary mission be economic growth to help rejuvenate our high street and promote innovation , and this legislation be an important element in that drive and will far cement the UK as a world - leader in product regulation and safety . the legislation will have real - world impact that we can all relate to . as we have hear , product safety failure can have devastating consequence , and we be determined that our regulatory framework be as agile and flexible as possible in its response to new threat and complex modern supply chain but without stifle innovation . there have be an awful lot of contribution , and I will try to cover as many of they as I can . I think it be appropriate that I start by reference the excellent speech from my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , which light up the whole House . he be , of course , the first meteorologist to have speak in this Chamber — Metrologist ! Metrologist . he may well be on the Bill Committee , because he have definitely talk his way on to it with his insight into this issue . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) almost match he in term of technical specificity , and his historical knowledge be also very important . he have just finish sit on a Bill Committee with I , but he be talk his way on to this one as well — perhaps I should not say that , because it might encourage colleague not to speak in future debate . my hon . friend the Member for Bathgate and Linlithgow ( Kirsteen Sullivan ) and the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) , be among a number of member who talk about the issue of e - bike , which be a real concern . I be sure the whole House have be move by the tragic case of e - bike fire that we too often hear about . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State refer to the tragic death of Sofia Duarte . I meet her mother last year to talk about what we can do through this Bill to prevent such tragedy from happen again . in the wake of the increase number of fire associate with e - bike and lithium - ion battery , there have be call from business , trade association , consumer group and parliamentarian to tighten up the law . this legislation will allow we to ensure that the UK ' s product safety framework can keep up with technological development , include on e - bike . the power in the Bill will allow we to update regulation to ensure the good protection for consumer and consistency with the majority of reputable retailer . the Government be currently consider how good to use the power in the Bill to regulate these product in an efficient and proportionate way , in particular to ensure that product that can pose a great risk , such as lithium - ion battery and e - bike and e - scooter , be safe . that include bring forward power in the Bill to well define online marketplace and confer additional duty on they to help stop the sale of unsafe product , include converter kit . as my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles ( Michael Wheeler ) point out , this be a fast - move environment , and the Bill will give we the flexibility to tackle that . do the Minister agree that if a UK manufacturer want to produce a product for the UK market , it should produce it to UK regulation , and if it want to export it to Europe , it be sensible to produce that product to EU regulation , which will open up a massive market on our doorstep ? keep up with EU regulation will generally be good for the british business economy and help economic growth . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson tempt I to set out a statement of policy , which the Bill be not intend to do . we want to give ourselves maximum flexibility in our ability to deal with issue as they arise . he talk in his speech about online marketplace , and my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket ( Peter Prinsley ) talk about unsafe toy and button battery , cite the fact that investigation have discover that up to 90 % of product purchase in online marketplace be unsafe . because we recognise that online marketplace be in desperate need of regulation , the Bill will give we power to clarify and modernise responsibility for online marketplace in a flexible and proportionate way , to protect consumer and create a fair playing field for law - abide business . it will enable the Government to modernise the responsibility of online supply chain actor . while the growth of e - commerce have provide consumer with great choice and convenience , it can not be at the expense of consumer safety . we will continue to engage with consumer group , business and online marketplace in the development of specific online marketplace requirement to ensure that they be proportionate and to mitigate any cost to consumer . I can also confirm that it be the intention of the Government to consult on the duty for online marketplace soon after Royal Assent and to bring forward subsequent regulation as soon as be practically possible . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) speak with his customary passion about the ceramics industry in the Potteries . I acknowledge his idea for protect the industry . I be not sure whether this Bill be the right vehicle for his suggestion , but I will take it away and come back to he . it be probably worth talk about the issue that seem to vex Opposition Members rather a lot , which be whether this Bill be in some way a reset to EU law by the back door . it be about domestic regulation and we be not rejoin the EU by the back door . the Bill be about give we flexibility to ensure product regulation , now and in the future , that be tailor to the need of the UK . of course , there will be some instance when we will want to take a similar approach to the EU , but there will be other time when we will want to take our own approach . those decision will be take on a case - by - case basis in the good interest of UK business and consumer . as my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) say , the Retained EU Law ( Revocation and Reform ) Act 2023 give significant power to the Executive , and the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Wokingham , quote I on that Act . it reform 7 , 000 regulation , range across every function of society . its regulation be far broad than those propose in this Bill and the Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Select Committee call it " hyper - skeletal " , which be some way beyond the criticism it level against this Bill . turn to the reason amendment table by the official Opposition , it be worth restate that the Bill be not about rejoin the EU . David Cameron comment that he want the conservative party to " stop bang on about Europe " , but there seem to be some way to go before his word reach fruition , despite the fact that we leave five year ago . the Bill give we the necessary power to ensure public regulation , now and in the future , meet the interest of the UK . the power set out in the Bill will be use solely and exclusively in the good interest of UK business and consumer . I recognise that the House of Lords Delegated Powers and Regulatory Reform Select Committee raise concern about this be a skeleton Bill , but the Government have consider those concern and other representation make by member in the other place . our exist product regulation be necessary to keep consumer safe , and to provide clarity and a level playing field for business . they extend to many thousand of page and cover a huge amount of technical detail . as the noble and learn Lord Pannick say in the other place , " the practical reality be that technical regulation of the breadth and complexity that will be produce can not sensibly be enact by primary legislation . " he go on to say that if we be require to use primary legislation every time we want to make a regulation on product safety , there would be " little , if any , time for anything else . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 26 February 2025 ; Vol . 843 , c . 1716 . ] conservative Members seem to have forget that since the Consumer Protection Act 1987 , government of all stripe have recognise the need to make product safety regulation by secondary legislation . since 1987 , the Conservatives have be in power for 24 year , so they have more than enough time to find another way of deal with product safety , but they do not choose to do that . we be take a pragmatic approach . we have take notice of some of the concern raise about the power of the Bill : we have remove a number of Henry VIII power , introduce a consultation requirement , add additional affirmative resolution procedure and publish a code of conduct that set out the control that we will have to ensure regulation be proportionate and evidence base . I be grateful to member of the other place for set out some of their concern . as the shadow Minister , the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , point out , the Conservatives do not introduce the Bill in the last Parliament ; I be happy to confirm that that be the case . that show that there be a gap in the law that need filling and the Conservatives fail to act on it . some of the important consumer group in this country , such as Which ? , recognise that action be need . Sue Davies , head of consumer right , protection and food policy say : " it ' s encourage that the government be prioritise a Bill that should address the huge gap in consumer protection which allow online marketplace to facilitate the sale of unsafe and illegal product without face repercussion . " if member vote for the reason amendment , we will not be have any of those protection . I do not think any responsible party would move an amendment along those line . this government be never go to compromise on safety . the Bill be essential to strengthen the rule and regulation need to protect consumer , business and the public . I therefore commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jerome Mayhew Rebecca Paul Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Peter Prinsley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Ellie Reeves Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 110 , Noes 302 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 62 ( 2 ) ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Phil Brickell Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Clive Efford Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Uma Kumaran Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Alice Macdonald Justin Madders Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Steve Race Andrew Ranger Ellie Reeves Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Anna Turley Jim Allister Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jerome Mayhew Rebecca Paul the House divide : Ayes 303 , Noes 110 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read a second time . Product Regulation and Metrology Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 20 May 2025 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . Product Regulation and Metrology Bill [ Lords ] ( money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( 1 ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State , and ( 2 ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . Product Regulation and Metrology Bill [ Lords ] ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Production Regulation and Metrology Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise the charging of fee under the Act . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question put and agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Energy Conservation that the draft Ecodesign for Energy - relate Products and Energy Information ( Amendment ) ( Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 4 March , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) the Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until tomorrow ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Agriculture that the draft Genetic Technology ( Precision Breeding ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 25 February , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . Trail Hunting Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) Meur ra , Mr Speaker . I be delighted to secure my first Adjournment debate , and for it to be on an issue so close to my heart : trail hunting and , more broadly , animal welfare . put simply , animal cruelty should have no place in modern , progressive 21st - century Britain . have spend most of my life live in rural area , I have witness at first hand the brutal reality of hunt with dog . contrary to the view of some , that opinion be share by many rural resident . it be imperative that as lawmaker we address the concern surround trail hunting , particularly in light of the Hunting Act 2004 and the Government ' s manifesto commitment . Fox hunting be not a sport . it be an activity that involve tracking , chase and kill a fox , typically use a pack of hound and rider on horseback . it be ban by the last Labour Government through Hunting Act 2004 . drag hunting be an activity similar to traditional foxhunting , but with a key difference : instead of hunt a live fox , a scent trail be artificially lay for the hound to follow . the scent be usually create use a mixture of aniseed and other substance , and it be drag along a predetermined route . just to be clear , I have no issue with drag hunting . the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals say that out of control hound on trail hunt have harm people , pet and themselves in residential area . do my hon . friend agree that it be urgent that trail hunting should be ban as soon as possible to close the loophole in the Hunting Act 2004 ? order . I advise member that it be easy for we to hear they if they look to the microphone . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention and I entirely agree . Trail hunting , as it be commonly understand , involve a pack of hound follow a scent trail lay by a human , with the intention that hound will follow the trail , rather than chase and kill a wild animal . the functional difference between that and drag hunting be that animal - base scent of the traditional hunting quarry be use in trail hunting . that be usually fox urine , but the body part and carcase of fox , deer and hare can also be use . on the surface , it appear to be a harmless activity . however , there be now overwhelming evidence to suggest that trail hunting have become a thinly veil pretence for illegal hunting activity under the Hunting Act . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way and for secure this important debate . in my constituency several hunt , include the Heythrop hunt and the Warwickshire hunt which cross the county border , have be catch red - handed hunting live fox . do he agree that such incident show how urgent it be for the Government to honour their manifesto commitment to ban trail hunting ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . not only that , but in his constituency I have personally clear land on which local hunt have create an environment for fox to thrive . it be a complete nonsense to suggest that fox hunting be of any use in term of p control . it be not . the 2004 Act be a response to the grow public outcry over the brutality of hunt practice . it make it illegal to hunt with hound except in certain circumstance , in the case of register hunt use scent trail . first , I commend the hon . Gentleman . I speak to he before the debate , so he know where I be come from . I have a very different opinion , and the hon . Gentleman know that ; he respect that , and I respect he . I just want to put that on the record . this be clearly a devolved matter , so England , Scotland , Northern Ireland and Wales will make their own decision separately . the hon . Gentleman have outline his point of view , but do he agree that the hunting community deserve to have their voice hear and consider in that legislative process ? the hunting community would dispute some of what have be say tonight . just for the record , as a hunting man — one who have never hunt with horse or hound — I think the hunting community should have the right to pursue it . what do the hon . Gentleman think ? before we go any far , let ' s get the other point of view . I think it be absolutely right that all voice be hear , but that science be follow . legislation should be base on evidence and science , and the evidence and the science suggest that the cruelty to the animal be pursue far outweigh the pleasure the hunt will give human being . however , I be really happy for all voice to be hear in this debate . the law must also be follow . the fact that 46 % of register trail hunt end up chase a fox prove that the law need tighten up and that we need tough sentencing . ultimately , this Labour Government will deliver that . do my hon . friend agree that that be a priority ? I thank my hon . friend for that point . I do agree , and I will be come on to that later . I be sorry to make another intervention on the hon . Gentleman — my neighbour in Cornwall . he be probably aware that I spend hundred of hour in this House on this matter before the 2004 Act ; I be pleased that in spite of all the intimidation and threat that I receive at the time , the Act still go through . the point be make early that the voice of those who get their kick out of chase wild animal for sport need to be hear , and indeed they have be : we have already hear that the leader of trail hunt admit that they be , indeed , a smokescreen . they have use that word themselves to describe what go on with trail hunt . I agree with the hon . member , and thank he not just for his intervention but for all his work to raise awareness . the Hunting Act do not go far enough . it leave certain loophole , particularly the allowance for trail hunting , which have mean that the law be often undermine accord to the RSPCA and the League Against Cruel Sports . despite the requirement for hunt to obtain landowner permission and follow strict regulation , there be significant evidence that trail hunt often lead to the unlawful hunting of fox and other wild animal . accord to source in Cornwall , there be five foxhound pack . alongside trail hunt , some of those pack have continue to hunt fox illegally and have be film send hound to dig out fox hide in hole , woodland and hedge . many landowner continue to suffer horse and hound trespass , and uncontrolle hound regularly end up spill out on to road , cause a danger to road user , as mention by my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) . Meur ras th ' be keren — that be my very good cornish , and I will not try to repeat it unless I have time to practise . I thank my hon . friend for secure the debate . to go back to his point about the difference between drag hunting and trail hunting , a lot of the negative thing that he describe would not come from drag hunt , which have predetermine route and use a different type of scent . for the avoidance of doubt for anybody listen at home , particularly those in the hunting community who may be concern , might we just reconfirm that this be about trail hunting , not drag hunting ? I can say once again that I have no issue with drag hunting ; this be about trail hunting . Trail hunt be often deliberately lay in area inhabit by fox , increase the likelihood of hound disturbing , chase and kill a fox or other animal when the scent of live quarry be pick up . these be not isolate incident ; they be part of a broad pattern of behaviour that undermine the intent of the Hunting Act . for example , between August 2023 and March 2024 , during the last hunting season , several report be make of illegal hunting incident , include cub hunting , where the claim of trail hunting be use as a defence . in many of these case , the evidence suggest that the scent trail be often a formality , with hunt continue to chase and kill wildlife . several major landowner have take step to restrict trail hunting . the National Trust , Natural Resources Wales and Forestry England have all ban trail hunting . additionally , United Utilities and the Lake District national park have suspend trail hunting activity , with the Lake District national park ' s suspension describe as " indefinite " . the Ministry of Defence have also halt the issuance of any licence for trail hunting on its land . additionally , in February 2025 , the national lead on fox hunting crime , Assistant Chief Constable Matt Longman , publicly state that " of all the case that I have review " — this be a point that be make early — " where there have be successful prosecution of the Hunting Act , trail hunting have be use as a defence . " his comment reflect the disturbing reality that trail hunting be provide a smokescreen for illegal fox hunting . the hon . Gentleman be be very generous with his time . his thesis seem to be that , because the direct hunting of fox be make illegal , trail hunting be be we as a cover for it . what would happen if he have his way and trail hunting be ban as well ? would it not then be possible for drag hunting to be use in some way as a cover for illegal fox hunting ? if so , be not this an endless process , and should he not come out and say straightaway that he want every form of this activity stop ? I think that I have twice make the point that I have no issue with drag hunting . with drag hunting , the scent that be follow be not that of the carcase of an animal or the urine of an animal . therefore , the likelihood that there will be wild animal include in drag hunting be much , much small . the evidence from the RSPCA and the League Against Cruel Sports support the view that drag hunting be completely different from trail hunting , and that there be no issue with drag hunting . it be really important that this be not see to be a witch hunt against people who want to have a hack across the countryside with dog on a specific and pre - plan route . it be a really important nuance within rural community that we be not against all form of horse riding . we want to make sure that wildlife and the natural environment be protect , so , respectfully , I do not agree with the right hon . member . in fact , the League Against Cruel Sports ' own analysis reveal that trail hunting have be use as a defence in case involve allege illegal hunting by register hunt . that highlight the major issue with the current legislation , as the exist law be often unable sufficiently to hold to account those who flout the regulation under the guise of trail hunting . moreover , enforcement in the field have prove difficult . although hunt be operate illegally , knowingly or intentionally hunt live quarry , it can often be challenge to prove that in court . the impact on animal welfare be significant , with wild animal , particularly fox , be force to run long distance while be relentlessly pursue , after which they be tear limb from limb while still alive by a pack of uncontrollable hound . the suffering do not stop there . non - target animal , include domestic pet and livestock , have also be disturb , attack and even kill when hunt veer off course , create havoc in residential area and rural community . this issue be not a matter for one party alone . support for ban trail hunting cross party line . mp from various political party , include the Conservative party , the Liberal Democrats and the Green party , have all express concern over trail hunt ' s role in perpetuate illegal hunting activity . this broad cross - party support demonstrate a share commitment to protect animal , wildlife and the natural environment . I strongly believe it be time for we to come together and close this loophole once and for all . public opinion on hunt in the UK have shift dramatically over the year . around 80 % of the british public support the ban on hunt with dog , and many of those people would like to see trail hunting ban as well . the moral case for end trail hunting be clear : it be inconsistent with the value of a modern , compassionate society that respect animal welfare . hunt , whether through traditional or trail method , often take place in area of natural beauty and fragile ecosystem . the disturbance cause by hound and hunter can have lasting effect on the local wildlife , disrupt natural habitat , and lead to long - term ecological damage . give the increase concern over biodiversity and the need to protect our natural environment , ban trail hunting would be a positive step in safeguard the UK ' s wildlife and habitat . we need to strengthen the Hunting Act 2004 to make sure it deliver the protection that animal need . that mean ban trail hunting , remove exemption that enable illegal hunting and introduce custodial sentence for those who break the law . my hon . friend be make a powerful case . while a pledge to ban trail hunting be welcome , I fear that it could be insufficient . if legislation focus solely on the term " trail hunting " , hunt may adopt new euphemism to exploit exist loophole to continue their activity . do my hon . friend agree that effective reform must go beyond a symbolic ban and address the entire framework that enable illegal hunting to carry on ? I agree with my hon . friend . in addition to those change , we must extend the time available to charge in illegal hunting case , reverse the burden of proof of compliance with exemption , and make hunt a notifiable offence . these step would make it easy to enforce the law and ensure that those who break it face the consequence . I thank the Minister for his time today and I look forward to his response on this issue . the way we treat our wildlife reflect the kind of society we be and the legacy we will leave for future generation . for I , hunt animal with dog be nothing less than a profoundly cruel activity . it be an activity that I , like most of my fellow Labour mps , campaign during the general election to ban . today I stand before this House to say that it be time to take decisive action and fulfil our promise to the electorate , and end trail hunting in the United Kingdom once and for all . I should declare an interest as chair of the League Against Cruel Sports . drag hunting be invent 200 year ago . it be a peaceful activity . Trail hunting be not . it be design to get around the current legislation . why do my hon . friend think that century of tradition be be ignore by the pro - hunt fraternity ? my hon . friend raise a difficult question . society move on , and people ' s value change . over the course of the last few decade , society have come to respect animal welfare far more than it ever have do before . hunting be and be perceive to be a traditional rural activity , but that do not mean it be right . it be wrong . in a modern 21st - century Britain , it have to be ban . we have to bring in these change . as I say , I have no issue with people who want to have a hack across the countryside in a control manner , but I have a profound problem if the outcome of that activity be the destruction of wild animal and the local environment . my question to the Minister be a simple one . when will the Government make available parliamentary time to bring forward the necessary change to the Hunting Act 2004 to ban trail hunting ? I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) on secure his first Adjournment debate and speak with such knowledge and passion about this important subject . I welcome the valuable opportunity to close the debate by outline the Government ' s strong commitment to animal welfare priority , include take action on trail hunting . I also thank all hon . member who intervene during my hon . friend ' s speech , because they show the interest and passion there be on this subject . the Government be elect on a mandate to introduce the most ambitious plan in a generation to improve animal welfare , and that be exactly what we will do . ban trail hunting be only one part of that . we will also end puppy smuggling and puppy farming , ban the use of snare trap and ban the importation of hunt trophy . we be support the Animal Welfare ( Import of Dogs , Cats and Ferrets ) Bill , which will close loophole in the non - commercial pet travel rule that be abuse by unscrupulous trader . it will also give the Government power to prevent the supply of low - welfare pet to the United Kingdom . we will prohibit the bringing into Great Britain of puppy and kitten under six month old , dog and cat with non - exempt mutilation such as cropped ear , and heavily pregnant dog and cat . we be committed to tackle low - welfare dog breeding practice to bring an end to puppy farming . as part of that , we be carefully consider the result of the post - implementation review of the Animal Welfare ( Licensing of Activities involve Animals ) ( England ) Regulations 2018 , the recommendation from the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee ' s inquiry into pet welfare and abuse , and the animal welfare committee ' s opinion on canine breeding practice . as be outline in our manifesto , we will also bring an end to the use of snare trap in England . I be aware that both the Welsh Government and the Scottish Government have bring in ban on the use of snare in recent year , and we be now consider the most effective way to deliver on that commitment . we will set out the next step in due course . in the meantime , anyone use snare have a responsibility under the Animal Welfare Act 2006 to ensure that their activity do not harm protect specie or cause any unnecessary suffering . the Government be also commit to ban the import of hunt trophy from endangered animal . the UK have a long history of championing global conservation , and the Government be carefully review how to introduce effective legislation as soon as possible . we welcome the establishment of the national animal welfare panel by the all - party parliamentary group on animal welfare and look forward to work with it in the future . as a recent report from the animal sentience committee state , there be work to do to improve compliance with animal welfare regulation . we will be consider recommendation and proposal as we work to bring that about . I know that hon . member in the Chamber will share my deep concern about the recent high - profile incident of hare coursing that have be in the news . Hare coursing be an abhorrent activity that can quickly shatter rural community ' sense of safety and security . it be a serious crime , which be often carry out by organise criminal gang . it be vital that rural community be protect by effective policing to ensure enforcement of the law . defra , alongside the Home Office , be work jointly with the National Police Chiefs ' Council to deliver an update rural and wildlife crime strategy . this join - up approach between Government and policing will help to ensure that the entire weight of Government be bring to bear on tackle rural and wildlife crime . the Government be continue to provide support to the national wildlife crime unit alongside the national rural crime unit . those unit will receive £ 800 , 000 from the Home Office in 2025 - 26 . DEFRA will also provide the national wildlife crime unit with a furth £ 424 , 000 to help prevent and detect wildlife crime by obtain and disseminate intelligence , undertake analysis that highlight local or national threat , and directly assist law enforcer in their investigation . that include case of cruelty to wildlife and support local police force to take positive action against those who break the law through illegal fox hunting . let I turn to the primary focus of this debate : trail hunting . as we be aware , the Hunting Act 2004 make it an offence to hunt a wild mammal with dog , except where it be carry out in accordance with the exemption in the Act . those find guilty under the Act be subject to the full force of the law . however , as many have say here today , the nature of trail hunting make it difficult to ensure that wild mammal such as fox be not endanger . the trail be not lay constantly but be occasionally lift for a distance and drop again to allow the hound to search for the scent . huntsman and follower often do not know where trail have be lay and that can mean that , at time , the scent of wild animal be pick up . that make it challenge to protect fox , as well as other wild animal such as deer and hare . from November 2023 to March 2024 , as we have hear , the League Against Cruel Sports report nearly 526 incident of suspect illegal hunting and 870 incident of hunt cause distress or nuisance . that be why the Government be commit to go far by put in place a ban on trail hunting . my hon . Friend ask for a specific timeline . I be afraid that , at the moment , I can not give he that , but I want to assure member that we be work to move this forward and will deliver a thorough consultation later this year to ensure that the legislation that be bring forward be effective in practice and that its impact be understand . I also appreciate that , as we have hear , there be people in this House who will not welcome a change in the law . I want to reassure member here today that the Government recognise the contribution make to the rural economy by support profession such as farrier , vet and feed merchant . we will , of course , look closely at the impact that any change may make . we will consult relevant stakeholder at the appropriate time and further announcement will be make in due course . more generally , we will pull together an overarching approach to animal welfare across farm animal , companion animal and wild animal . we have be meet key stakeholder from each of those sector and want to work in partnership with they on improve animal welfare . I conclude by thank my hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth for securing tonight ' s debate , and I very much look forward to work closely with he in future to secure progress on this very important issue . question put and agree to . House adjourn .