Oral Answers to Questions Work and Pensions the Secretary of State be ask — save for the Future what step his Department be take to help people save for the future . what step his Department be take to help people save for the future . what step his Department be take to help people save for the future . automatic enrolment have succeed in transform pension saving , with more than 11 million employee be automatically enrol in a workplace pension since 2012 and an additional £ 29 billion in real term save into marketplace pension in 2022 compare with 2012 . I be very pleased when the Government bring in auto - enrolment for pension in 2012 , as make sure that everyone save for a pension should prevent pension poverty . what be the rate of take - up of these pension and what provision be the Government put in place to help those on low wage build up a pension pot to help provide a decent income in retirement ? the increase in take - up since 2012 have be extraordinary , particularly among woman , for whom the rate be 40 % in 2012 and be now 86 % and in line with man . my hon . friend will know about the 2017 review that we conduct on auto - enrolment . as and when we bring in those change , that will mean 3 million more people auto - enrol with £ 2 billion of additional saving each year . I be chair of the insurance and financial service all - party parliamentary group , and financial inclusion have be one of our key area of focus , particularly follow the pandemic which show that anybody have the potential to quickly become vulnerable . what be the Government do to increase the financial resilience of our constituent and make they well place to cope should such an unforeseen event happen again ? may I first recognise the fantastic work my hon . friend do on financial resilience ? the Government have , through very difficult time , come forward with £ 104 billion of cost of living payment between 2022 and 2025 . I would point my hon . friend to one particular scheme : the help to save scheme encourage low - income household to save and we have recently extend that by 18 month , until April 2025 . I call James Sunderland . not here . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I agree with the Secretary of State about the cross - party success of auto - enrolment , which have double the proportion of eligible employee save for retirement , but we know that the current regular auto - enrolment contribution of 8 % of earning be not enough to deliver the standard of live in retirement that most people hope for . do the Secretary of State recognise that that minimum level of contribution will need to be increase ? the contribution rate of the employer and employee be a very important matter , and we keep both under review . I call Jim Shannon . always here . thank you , Mr Speaker . when I be 16 , my mother take I to Danske bank — or Northern bank as it be then — and open an account for I . when I be 18 , my mother phone up the pension man in Ballywalter and tell he I need a pension . my mother have be a big guide in my life . what would the Secretary of State say to encourage the young people of today to take their mother ' s advice on open bank and pension account and plan for the future ? I think the response to that is , always take your mother ' s advice . I always do — and look where it get I . at the age of 16 , I would have think the hon . Gentleman would have be save into a piggy bank , put his little penny in a porcelain pig . I direct he to the gov . uk website , where there be a plethora of information for young people and those of all age about save and what the Government be do to assist . the good news be that Mrs Shannon be still give he advice . I call the shadow Minister . one of the simple way to get people save for the future be by ensure that they be enrol in a pension scheme , but all too many be currently exclude from auto - enrolment , particularly woman , who be twice as likely to miss out . the Government have know about this problem for year . they first propose widen the criterion in 2017 . last year , thank to a private Member ' s Bill , the Minister be give the power to do just that , but still we have see no update on when this will be implement . can the Secretary of State shed light on when these vital change will take place ? the hon . Lady draw attention to saving for woman . I have already state that 40 % of woman invest in workplace pension back in 2012 , and that have skyrocket to 86 % today . there be now 2 . 3 million employer provide pension through the auto - enrolment route , and there be £ 29 billion more in workplace pension in 2024 than be the case in 2012 . the hon . Lady refer , I think , to the 2017 review , which I have already refer to . that be currently under review . long - term Sickness : Employment what step his Department be take to help people with long - term sickness into work . this Government have a range of initiative to support disabled people and people with long - term sickness to start , stay and succeed in work . at the autumn statement , we build on that by expand universal support , launch WorkWell pilot and establish work on the reform of the fit note . my hon . friend will know about the excellent work be do by people such as my Maltby constituent , Ian Birch , and all his colleague at Reed in Partnership across the whole of Rotherham . they use DWP funding to help those with long - term issue of sickness and illness to get back into work and on their foot . what be her Department do to make sure that those who go through these programme stay in work permanently and contribute to the local economy ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the value of our local DWP programme . in Rother Valley , the Reed in Partnership approach have give vital support to his constituent , help they into work . it be vital to keep support they to remain there , and that be where that particular programme help . access to Work and our Disability Confident scheme be just some of the initiative to support disabled people and those with health condition while in employment . half the woman survey with endometriosis have to take time off work often or very often because of their condition , and one in six woman have to give up work altogether . will the Minister meet the incredible woman from Endometriosis Support Hull and East Yorkshire to discuss the work they be do with the local trade union to create a good practice charter for employer in Hull to support woman with endometriosis in the workplace ? I be in Aberdeen on Thursday meet woman with health condition and hear about how we can well support woman who be have debilitate impact from the menopause . that be in the oil and gas sector , where it take a long time to build up to a senior career . I would be interested to hear about the work that the hon . Lady ' s local team be do . through the wide woman ' s health strategy , we be support woman to have a thriving career all the way through . I be keen to hear from she and those woman , and to support the woman to stay in work . child Maintenance Service what assessment he have make of the effectiveness of the Child Maintenance Service in collect child maintenance payment . the Government be dedicate to ensure that parent meet their obligation to child , and we take robust enforcement action against those who do not . parent who pay some maintenance on the collect and pay service increase from 64 % to 69 % over the 12 month from September 2022 . my constituent ' s daughter be a young lady who have miss out for more than a year on child maintenance payment , because her father change job and the Child Maintenance Service lose track of he . my team have be involve , and despite lot of faffe , she still have not receive a payment . she be one of around half of child in separate family who be not receive the maintenance payment they deserve . will the Minister explain what his Department be do to ensure that the employer of these miss parent be properly chase up ? where parent have certain category of taxable income not be capture by the standard child maintenance calculation , they can make a request to the CMS to have the calculation varied . we have consult on proposal to include more type of taxable income hold by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs in the standard maintenance calculation . the Department have a number of way to try to get pay parent to cough up , and we must remember that this be cash for the child . in July 2022 , the Government consult on child maintenance and improve our enforcement power through the commencement of curfew order , and we still have not have a response to that consultation . I would be grateful to hear from the government when they plan to respond , and I remind they of the other power in place , such as deprive people of the ability to drive or of their passport . this be a simple thing , where people have the money and will not cough up the cash . I think we need to get on with curfew order . my right hon . friend be quite right that the Government have consult on the use of curfew , which be complex and interact with numerous Government service . several enforcement initiative aim at improve compliance be currently in train , and we need to get those in place and assess their effect before we can well see how curfew might fit with they . I note her enthusiasm for curfew and might well put she in touch with Viscount Younger of Leckie , the Minister in the Lords , whose policy brief this be , so that he can update she on our late thinking . Benefit Levels what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of level of benefit . welfare be there to help those who need assistance , include many of the most vulnerable , which be why we increase most benefit by 6 . 7 % for 2024 - 25 . that be on top of an increase of 10 . 1 % , include the benefit cap , in 2023 - 24 . that be all very well , but the rate of inflation for low - pay family have be significantly high than the headline rate of inflation for some time . that mean that those family who be struggle badly last year be struggle even bad this year . Citizens Advice have show that family on low income have less disposable income this year than they have last year . do the Secretary of State accept that it be time to introduce an essential guarantee so that nobody on universal credit or another income - base benefit can ever be allow to fall below a level where they can not afford the basic essential of life ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , we keep all benefit under review . I point he to various thing that we have do to ensure that we look after those low - income family , include increase the national living wage by about 10 % in both of the last two year ; the increase in the local housing allowance to the 30th percentile announce at the last fiscal event , which will be worth about £ 800 a year for about 1 . 6 million people ; and , of course , the tax cut that the Chancellor be able to bring forward , which for an average earner be worth £ 450 a year . I call the SNP spokesperson . rather than deal with the know policy failure within the benefit system , the Government seem to be more focused on penalise people through , for example , the two - child cap . last week , the Labour party join the Conservatives in prioritise lift the cap on banker ’ bonus rather than the two - child cap on work woman . do the Secretary of State take comfort in the fact that his cruel legacy will be protect by the Labour party ? I be not go to get involve in the crossfire between the Scottish National party and the Labour party , other than to say — [ interruption . ] order . I do not need a continue argument and disagreement . I be sure that when the question come to an end , you can speak outside . thank you , Mr Speaker . the two - child cap be there for good reason : so that family in those circumstance be take the same kind of decision that other — the taxpayer funding benefit — have to take . child Poverty what step he be take to help reduce child poverty . what recent estimate he have make of the number of child in poverty . in the late statistic , there be 400 , 000 few child in absolute poverty after housing cost than there be in 2009 - 10 . in this financial year , we will spend about £ 124 billion on welfare support working - age family . we be also provide £ 104 billion between 2022 and 2025 to help family with cost of living pressure . however , the Government ' s focus be firmly on reduce the risk of child poverty by support parent into work in every way we can . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation recently find that 42 % of child in Bolton live below the poverty line . after 14 year of Tory cut and general incompetence , Britain now have the bad rise in child poverty among the major country . what would the Minister say to a young family in Bolton who tell I , " one day we eat and one day we don ' t " ? nobody on either side of the House want to see family struggle . however , I repeat that child live in workless household be about five time more likely to be in absolute poverty after housing cost than those in household where all adult work . the Government be support the whole family through our childcare support , which we have increase by almost 50 % to £ 951 a month for one child or £ 1 , 630 for two ; the increase in the national living wage to £ 11 . 44 from April ; our cost of live offer ; and so on . the recent Joseph Rowntree Foundation report highlight Scotland ' s much low child poverty rate compare with England and Wales , and say that that be partly due to the Scottish Government ' s child payment . further progress be constrain by the UK ' s inadequate social security system . the Trussell Trust ' s " guarantee our essential " campaign show that 90 % of low - income household on universal credit in the UK can not afford everyday essential . do the Minister accept that raise the universal credit basic rate be critical to tackle child poverty ? the welfare system be there to be a strong safety net . it be not about a singular issue , because no household be the same . it be about wraparound care and deal with people on an individual basis . it be about make sure that where child need support — for example , with free school meal — we provide it . I call the shadow Minister . far to the Minister ' s response , the Prime Minister have be ask similar question about child poverty in recent Prime Minister ' s question . he usually respond that since 2010 , the Conservatives have lift 1 . 7 million people out of absolute poverty , which , as you know Mr Speaker , track living standard from a fix point in time . can the Minister tell I how many more people , on average , Labour lift out of absolute poverty annually , compare with the 1 . 7 million since 2010 that the Prime Minister regularly claim ? rather than trade number , I would say that this be about give people the dignity of a job . since 2009 - 10 , 1 . 7 million few people be in absolute poverty after housing cost , include 400 , 000 few child and 1 million few working - age adult . I know the hon . Lady say that work be not the Labour party ' s priority , but it be very much our priority . if the Minister can point to an occasion when I have say that work be not the Labour party ' s priority , she ought to say when that be , or she should withdraw that remark . the answer to my question be that , on average , more than 350 , 000 more people leave poverty in each year of the Labour Government . the Prime Minister ' s claim be pathetic . which of the following do the Minister think have the big impact on those poverty number ? be it when the Conservatives repeal the Child Poverty Act 2010 , be it when they shut down the child poverty unit , be it the collapse in the value of child benefit , or be it the financial chaos cause by a conservative Prime Minister in September 2022 , which put all family ' finance at risk ? no , it be the fact that over 1 million more people be in work and youth employment be up by around 40 % . ensure that people have the dignity of work and that , when they be not in work , there be a strong welfare system around they , be what this country need . cost of living : food bank what recent assessment his Department have make of the potential relationship between increase in the cost of living and trend in the use of food bank . what recent assessment his Department have make of the potential relationship between increase in the cost of living and trend in the use of food bank . the Government take food security very seriously and be commit to understanding and address food poverty . the reason that people use food bank be complex and varied . food bank be independent charitable organisation and the Government have no role in their operation . as such , datum on trend be not currently available . the staff and volunteer at the Norwood and Brixton food bank in my constituency work tirelessly all year round to support local people who simply can not make end meet . they be respond to the high level of need they have ever see . why do the Minister think that , despite this be one of the rich country in the world , food bank reliance be continue to rise so much on this Government ' s watch ? can she tell the House what the Government be do to end the need for food bank in the UK ? as I say , the reason that people use food bank be complex and varied , as all the research indicate . we offer support through cost of living payment and the household support fund , run to hundred of million of pound . the rise in the national living wage , the reduction in national insurance and the local housing allowance far help 1 . 6 million low - income household . we have a whole of suite of way to help the very poor in our society . food bank such as the excellent Luton Foodbank have be push to breaking point this winter , as more and more people need emergency food due to the Conservatives ' cost of living crisis . it be shameful that we now have more food bank than police station . what conversation have the Minister have with colleague in the Treasury about introduce measure in next month ' s Budget to support low - income work people face hardship and to reduce the dependence on food bank ? I point the hon . Lady to the further cost of living payment that will be go out this week to eligible household . we do not comment on future fiscal announcement . carer ' s Allowance what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the carer ' s allowance for people who care for more than one person . this be a particular area of interest for I as a former carer and as part of a caring family . it be important that we get the right balance . the flat weekly rate for the carer ' s allowance have never be link to the number of people be care for . the weekly rate will increase to £ 81 . 90 from April , which be almost an extra £ 1 , 500 a year since 2010 . the hundred of thousand of carer up and down the country be the unsung hero of our society , who do a fantastic job . whether it be care for elderly parent with dementia or sacrifice full - time work to care for a disabled child , carer play a critical role , ease the burden on health service . for most carer , care be a 24 / 7 job , and they can not take full - time work because of it . when will the Government realise that £ 76 , and now even £ 81 . 90 , be measly and do not scratch the surface of what carer have to put up with and pay for , particularly when many carer be care for more than one person ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point , which I appreciate as I have be in that situation of care for two people . the primary purpose of the carer ' s allowance be to provide a measure of financial support and recognition for people unable to work full time because of their caring responsibility . I know there be very strong view on this . I be look forward to meet with Carers UK just after recess — I be afraid I can not do so before , due to a funeral — and hear the vary view and how we can continue to support our carer , who in every constituency and community do an amazing job . PIP Mandatory Reconsideration decision whether his Department be take step to reduce the time take for personal independence payment mandatory reconsideration decision to be make . we have reduce clearance time from the peak of 79 day in 2021 to 36 day in October 2023 by improve process and increase decision - make capacity . we will continue to improve efficiency while ensure effective decision making for all reconsideration . in July last year , a constituent be not able to correctly fill out their PIP review form , which lead to their payment be stop . it take until last Thursday — six month from the mandatory reconsideration go in — for the payment to finally be restore . because of the delay , my constituent fall into debt and become suicidal . why be the Government not eliminate the delay that be let down the most vulnerable constituent ? I be very sorry to hear about the hon . Lady ' s constituent . our aim be always to make the right decision as early as possible in the claim journey , and I would be keen to see the full detail of that particular situation . on decision , it be important to consider the context : 2 . 9 million initial decision follow an assessment have be make between June 2018 and July 2023 ; 5 % have result in a complete tribunal hearing , with 3 % overturn . I would be very keen to see what have happen in the case that the hon . Lady mention . I call the shadow Minister . as my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) have just highlight , the Department be in chaos and that be have a huge impact on claimant ' life . as of October , there be 294 , 000 new personal independence payment claim wait to be process , with a further 445 , 000 claimant await an award review . as of November , 24 , 339 people be await Access to work decision . we be talk about hundred of thousand of disabled people leave in financial limbo , with ten of thousand wait to start work . what message do the Minister think these huge backlog send to disabled people , and how do she finally plan to get a grip of they ? I thank the hon . Lady for make the important point about the number . I agree that behind each of those be somebody we should be concern about , and I be absolutely look at this point . we be continue to learn from decision overturn by appeal , and we will continue to make improvement to our decision - make process to help people to get the correct decision early in their claim journey , and to be able to work and have the support where it be need . not everybody on PIP be out of work , so we need to be listen to the need of the people in those queue . I be conscious that every one of they be not a statistic but a person who need our support . Ill health : Economic Inactivity what estimate his Department have make of the cost to the public purse of economic inactivity due to ill health . what step his Department be take to reduce labour inactivity . what step his Department be take to reduce labour inactivity . there be , of course , significant cost relate to an increase in long - term sickness and illness rate in work . that be why we have our £ 2 . 5 billion back to work plan , to help 600 , 000 disabled people and people with health condition start and stay in work . that approach , along with other , have see economic inactivity reduce by 330 , 000 since its peak during the pandemic . nhs waiting list be currently at 7 . 8 million , with more than 177 , 000 people on waiting list in my own NHS trust area . when it be this difficult to access medical treatment , it be no surprise that we have a record 2 . 8 million people out of work due to ill health . do the Minister accept that this Government ' s failure on the NHS be stymie economic growth , deny people the dignity of work and cost taxpayer billion of pound ? on NHS waiting list , there have be progress , in that the two - year waiting list have almost be entirely dispense with and those of 18 month have be very substantially reduce . our Department recognise that work be part of the solution to improve people ' s health , which be why we be put forward the WorkWell service , bring together medical input and work coach input ; fit note reform to help at an early stage of the journey ; and the reform to the work coach assessment . all those thing be move towards get more people into work , which be good for their health . in Barrow and Furness , an estimate 4 , 000 people who could be contribute to the labour market be not do so . I be incredibly grateful to my right hon . friend and his team , in the Barrow jobcentre and centrally , who , alongside Team Barrow , have work with local employer and skill provider to help get those people back into our incredibly tight labour market . will he pass my thank on to those team ? may I also encourage he to visit to see their good work ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight all the good work that have go on in his constituency . I believe he open a jobcentre only as recently as 30 January in his constituency . he be a doughty campaigner for and supporter of employment in his patch . he ask whether I will visit his constituency . I would certainly like to consider that , but my hon . friend the Employment Minister might also visit , because she just say she be particularly keen to do so . there we be . Burnley and Padiham have so much go for it — with the rest of Lancashire , our area be the manufacture powerhouse of the United Kingdom — but still have stubborn level of economic inactivity among people who could be contribute to economic growth and have financial security , which we all want they to have . what more can we do to help those people ? in particular , can my right hon . friend do more to join up with other Departments so that area such as Burnley , which might have structural problem , get more intensive support ? my hon . friend ask what approach we can take to resolve the issue that he have raise . we have announce a doubling of universal support , a scheme with which he will be familiar ; WorkWell , to which I just refer , bring together medical support and work coach ; and reform of the fit note system so that we get involve early in the journey that many people experience when they fall out of the workforce into long - term sickness and disability benefit . overall , the evidence be clear : economic inactivity be down by 268 , 000 on the year , and by more than a third of a million since its peak during the pandemic — a 52 % reduction . job : Witham what estimate he have make of the number of job provide by business in Witham constituency . the Office for National Statistics estimate that 36 , 000 job be provide by employer in Witham in 2022 . as it be Apprenticeship Week , will the Secretary of State join I in thank business in Witham for everything that they be do to employ youngster and put they on that apprenticeship pathway ? those business , however , be cry out for a labour market strategy that will help they to harness the skill and the upskilling that they need in certain sector . would the Secretary of State be prepared to advance that , and push it , across other Departments ? I congratulate my right hon . friend on the extraordinary work that she do locally to promote apprenticeship . I believe she be involve in a job fair on 24 January , host by Reed , which be highly successful . the employment rate in her constituency be 81 % , well above the national average , which I put down almost entirely to the work that she be do . she ask how we would proceed . we already have swap , bootcamp and returnership , but I be indeed look at specific area of the labour market , particularly in the context of migration change , where we may be able to do more on a strategic basis . State Pension : UK Citizens live Overseas what recent assessment he have make of the potential cost of restore parity in the level of state pension receive by UK citizen live overseas . accord to the late estimate , base on datum from March 2022 , uprate the state pension where we do not currently do so would cost about £ 0 . 9 billion a year if all UK state pension in payment be increase to current UK level . follow our withdrawal from the EU , we be rightly able to move close to our partner in the Commonwealth . one way in which we could do that would be to confirm that all british citizen who live in the Commonwealth should be entitle to the appropriate uprating of their state pension as if they be still in the UK . that would seem to be a matter of simple fairness . will the Minister meet I to discuss the practicality of make it happen , and restore some much - need common sense to a needlessly complicated situation ? the UK Government continue to uprate state pension when there be a legal requirement for that to be do , and have no plan to change their long - stand policy or enter into new reciprocal social security agreement . benefit Claims process : cancer patient if he will take step to simplify the benefit claim process for cancer patient . understandably , such a health diagnosis can be a shock for individual , their family and , indeed , their finance — and I be conscious of say this just after World Cancer Day . it be important to ensure that people have the right support as soon as possible , and as part of our reform we will simplify the system to reduce the assessment burden and improve people ' s experience of assessment . I thank the Minister for her response , but those change can not come too soon for my constituent Emily , who be diagnose with breast cancer in November , be too ill to work , and be find the benefit system impossible to navigate . DWP official have push she from pillar to post , unable to decide whether she be eligible for employment and support allowance and universal credit . she have be force to fill in countless form , and be even require to attend a jobcentre appointment over Christmas , despite be seriously unwell . do the Minister agree this be simply not good enough , and that we need to put those change in place so that people like Emily do not have to go through this ? I be sorry to hear about Emily ' s situation . I would remind other in her situation that there be a help to claim service available through Citizens Advice and also a benefit calculator on gov . uk , but I would also be extremely keen to see the detail of what have happen . I would be happy to meet the hon . Lady or to look at the detail , whatever she would prefer . help People into Employment : Cumbria , Cheadle and Darlington what step he plan to take to increase level of employment in Cumbria . what step his Department be take to expand the support available through jobcentre in Cheadle constituency . what step he be take to help fill job vacancy in Darlington constituency . across the country our fantastic work coach be support people to secure and progress in work . in Kendal , Cheadle and Darlington , jobcentre be work with local and national employer to match jobseeker with vacancy through job fair , sector - base work academy programme and apprenticeship . as it be National Apprenticeship Week , this be a great time for employer to promote the opportunity available , and I urge all colleague who have not yet do so to visit their jobcentre if it have an apprenticeship fair on . the hon . Gentleman ' s be last week , wasn ' t it ? I do indeed celebrate the work of the kendal jobcentre . it do a fantastic job but one problem be that it have too small a workforce . this week we mourn the loss of yet another Lake District business , this time a bistro in Coniston , due in part to the loss of affordable home and to restrictive visa rule , both of which be shrink our local workforce . will the Minister meet I and local cumbrian business leader to develop a plan to tackle Cumbria ' s workforce crisis ? I be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman , but I also gently say that this be about other Government Departments as well . I will certainly work with he as far as employer go , under my remit . speak to Stockport jobcentre last week , I hear about the success of the movement to work scheme , which place young people with employer , include in the civil service . however , the lengthy civil service application process be delay placement . will my hon . friend look into how the process could be streamline and accelerate , and join I on a visit to Stockport jobcentre ? I know that senior civil servant be engage in pilot an initiative that will help to speed this up , because we need to place those candidate more quickly and ensure that we get they into work swiftly . I would love to visit Stockport and add its jobcentre to the grow list that I have visit . I put on record my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Guy Opperman ) for his work to establish the Jobcentre Plus Facebook page , of which Darlington ' s be the first . will my hon . friend the Minister outline how successful that page have be and what further plan she have to develop accessible social medium job advertising ? we know that social medium help , and that 40 to 50 - year - old in particular enjoy engage with a digital platform when they be look for work . we have have instance in the past of people thank we when they have be give interview online . it be important that post be accessible and we be work to ensure that this be the case . I would point customer of any age to the JobHelp website , which have a host of useful information . I be keen to see if we can roll out such progress far . I do find that a strange grouping , but not to worry , Minister . well deal with ! how you get from Cumbria across the country like that be amazing . autism : Workplace accessibility what step he be take to help ensure workplace be accessible for autistic people . autistic people have a huge amount to offer in the workforce , which be why we set up the Buckland review in April 2023 , lead by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for South Swindon ( Sir Robert Buckland ) , to look at the barrier to autistic people gain employment and to ensure that we have a more inclusive workforce for they . may I push the Minister on what progress have be make by the Buckland review ? will he also remind jobcentre up and down the country that people on the autism spectrum have great talent and often need only slight workplace modification of simple thing such as lighting or noise level ? this could open up a source of real talent for our country . the hon . Gentleman be entirely right . small change can often make a big difference , not just for autistic people but for the business they go on to serve and work in . he will have to be a little more patient about the Buckland review report come out , but it will not be long . I also point he to the Access to Work and Disability Confident approach , which both do exactly what he suggest . Statutory Sick Pay Eligibility : stoke - on - Trent North what recent assessment he have make of the potential impact of the number of people who be not eligible for statutory sick pay because they be pay less than the low earning limit on level of inequality in Stoke - on - Trent North constituency . the Department have not make a specific assessment for the Stoke - on - Trent North constituency , but I refer my hon . friend to the evidence I present to the Work and Pensions Committee last week . I look forward to meet he this week to discuss this in more detail . I be grateful to my hon . friend for her answer . I be proud to have join a campaign , together with my right hon . friend the Member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) and the hon . member for Glasgow East ( David Linden ) , to reform statutory sick pay . that campaign , lead by the Centre for Progressive Change , be reference in today ' s Times Health Commission report . ahead of the spring Budget , will the Department join we in lobby the Treasury to make these important change , so that we have a healthy workforce that contribute more to our economy and , more importantly , so that we make sure that work pay fairly ? I refer my hon . friend to the answer I give to the Work and Pensions Committee . statutory sick pay be considerably more complex than he make out , but it be nice to see all this cross - party collaboration . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . the Department have be busy support the most vulnerable , with the third instalment of the £ 900 cost of living payment start to reach the bank account of 8 million low - income household tomorrow . we be also on the verge of publish our disability action plan . we have see economic inactivity decrease by 330 , 000 since its peak during the pandemic . I have make it a priority for my Department to engage across Parliament . as Secretary of State , I appear before the Work and Pensions Committee in December . the pension Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool North and Cleveleys ( Paul Maynard ) , appear before the Committee on 10 January ; the Minister for Employment , my hon . friend the Member for Bury St Edmunds ( Jo Churchill ) , appear before the Committee on 31 January ; and I believe the Minister for Disabled People , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Mims Davies ) , and Viscount Younger , our Lords Minister , will appear before it next month . there will be a statement on the disability action plan this afternoon . Lambeth Council and Southwark Council have work hard over the past few year to deliver targeted cost of live support through the household support fund . many local people continue to face serious hardship as a consequence of this Government ' s political decision , but local authority do not know what , if any , fund they will receive after 31 March . when do the Secretary of State expect to confirm the future of the household support fund , so that local authority can plan ahead ? I be pleased that the hon . Lady recognise the importance and value of our various intervention . ten million payment have be make through the hsf since its inception , and £ 1 billion have be put into the fund in the last year . she will know that her question be a matter for the Chancellor , and the matter will quite possibly — I really do not know — be deal with at a future fiscal event . there be no news on that at this stage . Anglesey have an active autism parent ' group , and brilliant coach like Ryan Gibbs — he run a " fighting for Autism " class — who work hard to support autistic child and each other . for parent such as Shelly Rankin Jones and young autistic people such as Becca Pierce , can the Minister update the House on the Buckland review of autism employment ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , because autism be an issue of great importance to the House and to she personally . I know about the work that she be do with Ryan Gibbs , Becca Pierce and Shelly Rankin Jones . she will know that the Buckland review be instigate in April 2023 and will conclude relatively shortly , with a report be publish online . I look forward to visit her disability job fair in Holyhead at the end of this week . I call the shadow Secretary of State . this morning the Office for National Statistics publish the long - await update figure from the labour market survey . can the Secretary of State now confirm that our employment rate be even low than previously think , and that there be at least 200 , 000 more people out of work due to long - term sickness ? we think that the cost of health - relate inactivity be an additional £ 15 billion a year since the pandemic , but give these new figure , can he tell the House how much more his government ' s failure be cost taxpayer every single year ? order . I remind Front Benchers that this be topical question , which be mean to be short and punchy , and they should stick to the rule . do we understand each other ? the hon . Lady refer to the late weighted number just release by the Office for National Statistics , which show that unemployment as a percentage be low than originally forecast . she can not get away from the fact that there be 330 , 000 few people in economic inactivity since the peak . as a result of our work capability assessment reform , the Office for Budget Responsibility have score we as have 371 , 000 few people on long - term sickness benefit than would otherwise have be the case . the former health Minister Lord Bethell say that he be " gobsmacke " by the figure , and that " the economic hit will be hard " . the Minister would do well to listen to his word . yesterday , the Education Secretary say that the Government can not guarantee that their promise will be meet on childcare , which parent need in order to work . today , their Prime Minister admit that he have fail on NHS waiting list , which the long - term sick need deal with if they be to get back to work . why do the Secretary of State not do the decent thing and admit that he have fail too , and adopt Labour ' s plan to cut wait , roll out breakfast club , overhaul jobcentre and get Britain work again ? we be get Britain work , unlike the opposition , under whose last Administration unemployment increase , youth unemployment go up by 40 % , some 25 % more woman be unemployed and 1 million people or thereabout be stick on long - term benefit for almost a decade . that be a disgrace . Sizewell C will provide an enormous number of job opportunity in Suffolk . will my right hon . friend outline the work that the Department for Work and Pensions be do to ensure that local people have every opportunity to work on the project and acquire the necessary skill ? like my hon . friend , I be excited about the job and opportunity at Sizewell . local jobcentre have be engage with Sizewell C , and I understand that a local partnership manager will be designate to promote opportunity , and to find people for 1 , 500 apprenticeship and thousand of job . we will invest in local skill through sector - base work programme and the like . I call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . last month , a report by the pension provider Royal London show that woman lose , on average , £ 92 , 000 as a result of juggle part - time work and childcare . what be the Government go to do about that ? as the hon . Gentleman will have hear early , the proportion of woman save for their pension have go from 40 % 10 year ago to 89 % now . People with disability often take on voluntary role , as there can be societal barrier to gain employment . my constituent Philippa have a son with down ' s syndrome who volunteer , provide much - value music workshop for local child . how can the Minister ensure that the work of people with disability be properly recognise in the workplace ? I congratulate Philippa ' s son on the very good work that he do . we have disability employment adviser in our jobcentre . I be visit my hon . friend ' s constituency later this week ; I know that he have be involve in the Denbighshire project , include the we mind the Gap programme for young people , and I will be interested to discuss that and other matter . Fife Gingerbread , base in my constituency , contact I to point out that most of the provision in the Child Support Collection ( Domestic Abuse ) Act 2023 , which be unanimously agree by the House and receive Royal Assent at the end of June last year , have still not be bring into force . that mean that far too many vulnerable people who want to make a claim through the Child Maintenance Service find that abusive ex - partner use it to control their behaviour . why be it take so long to put in place the measure in the Act ? I can confirm to the hon . Gentleman that the Child Maintenance Service have a domestic abuse plan to ensure that parent be not place in danger as a consequence of any suggestion of domestic violence ; for example , it have a centralised sort code to limit the risk of parental involvement . I wish to place on record my thank to the Secretary of State for help to guide my private Member ' s Bill through Parliament . it lower the pension auto - enrolment age from 22 to 18 , and abolish the low earning threshold . briefly , have the Secretary of State receive reassurance from the Chancellor that the necessary form will be implement in the spring Budget ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . those matter be under active consideration . give that the Secretary of State have just say that the continuation of the household support fund after the end of March be up to the Chancellor , and give that , last week , we have the support of all party in Westminster Hall for the continuation of this vital fund , will he assure the House that the subject be a top priority in his negotiation with the Chancellor ? the specific of my negotiation with the Treasury remain between I and the Treasury . as I have say , the any of those decision on the HSF be matter for the Treasury . in 2005 , the DWP fail to make a reasonable decision about target information at the woman affect by state pension age change . the ombudsman rule that there be maladministration . these woman , in Dudley and around the country , deserve more than just an apology . do the Minister accept these finding , and if not , will he explain why not ? the Department be co - operate with the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman investigation , which be ongoing , and it would not be appropriate to comment on it or the outcome . my constituent ' s universal credit payment have be stop over Christmas for two year run , because her employer pay her salary early in December . why will Ministers not do more to ensure that caseworker know that they can use the discretion that they have , so that my constituent and other like she have financial certainty at what be a very difficult time of year ? the way that universal credit work mean that work coach can use their flexibility , but if a payment be short one month , the appropriate thing to do be to sort it the next . in his opening remark , the Secretary of State mention the assessment period for cost of living payment , but people on four - weekly pay schedule miss out on support because they fall foul of the assessment period rule for universal credit . what assessment have the Government make of the number of people miss out , and what remedy do they have ? cost of living payment can be affect by when people be pay , and therefore by whether they be on universal credit and qualify at precisely that point . I do not have the figure to hand that the hon . Lady request , but I will of course get back to she with it . this morning ' s report by the Academy of Medical Sciences reveal that our appalling child health and infant mortality rate be bad than those of 60 % of similar country and be the key driver of child poverty . what assessment have the Secretary of State undertake to make on the impact that stop the household support fund in April will have on relative child poverty and , subsequently , infant mortality ? as the hon . Lady will know , the number of those in child poverty have decrease by 400 , 000 since 2010 . we do not yet have a decision on the household support fund , to which she refer , but I point she to the very significant uplift in the local housing allowance , which will give 1 . 6 million people £ 800 a year more on average , thereby take many of they out of poverty . from unanswered email to unreturned call , it have be heartbreaking to hear from so many vulnerable constituent who be in a state of limbo and distress , and try to chase up personal independence payment . when will minister ensure that people can get the support that they need in a timely and straightforward manner ? if the hon . Gentleman have specific example , I would be keen to hear from he and to look into they . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . will the Secretary of State point out to the Chancellor that many council have use the household support fund to pay £ 3 per day per child during the school holiday to family entitle to free school meal , and that if the fund close at the end of March , those family will be straight into hardship in the Easter school holiday ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his representation , and indeed would be grateful for any other that he be minded to make to I as we conduct our ongoing review on where we go with the household support fund . when will the Minister wake up to the fact that work as an apprentice in engineering be a fabulous career choice , and well pay ? will she come up to Huddersfield to look at Cummins , whose apprentice system be first rate ? I would be delighted to do so on my tour of England . I could not agree more with the hon . Gentleman . my father be an engineer . it be a fantastic profession , and the more we can encourage apprenticeship right across the board , the well . nearly 6 million people have now take they up . I would be delighted to come . situation in the Red Sea with permission , I will make a statement on the recent response to Houthi aggression in the Red sea . freedom of navigation have be a cornerstone of civilisation since time immemorial . it underpin our prosperity and security , and be a found principle of the international rule - base system . since 19 October , the Houthis , supply and aid by Iran , have be infringe on those fundamental freedom by attack international commercial vessel in the Red sea and in the Gulf of Aden . on 19 November , they illegally seize the merchant vessel Galaxy Leader use a helicopter - borne assault crew , and since then they have conduct around 40 attack against commercial and military vessel . despite repeat warning , their attack have continue . the UK have always stand up for the rule - base international order , and since the Houthis begin their illegal attack we have be at the forefront of the international response , whether help to defend vessel in the vicinity , as one of the first member to join the US - lead taskforce Operation Prosperity Guardian , or work in tandem with the US and other ally to tackle the Houthis , always in response to specific threat and always in line with international law and the principle of self - defence . on two previous occasion we have be require to use force , and those attack have have a significant effect in degrade Houthi capability , but the Houthis ' intent to continue disrupt the Red sea have not be fully diminish . two week ago , the Prime Minister come to the House to make it clear , as I do the follow day , that unless the Houthis desist from their inflammatory action , we would not hesitate to act again . yet instead of cease their activity , they have choose to persist , accompany their increasingly incendiary rhetoric with further missile and drone target at shipping and at the Royal Navy . most recently , the Houthis set the vessel Marlin Luanda on fire and target HMS Diamond directly in the Red sea . such behaviour be simply intolerable . it break international law , and be already have consequence that be damaging to the economy of the world . insurance premium have rocket tenfold since the start of December , the number of cargo ship transit Bab al - Mandab have fall , and the cost of container have rocket , all of which could send food inflation spiral , and will certainly hit those country with the great poverty level the hard . the Houthis believe that they be the region ' s Robin Hood , but as I discuss with the yemeni Defence Minister just yesterday when I see he in Saudi , the only people they be rob be innocent Yeminis whose food and aid arrive via the Red sea . that be why at the weekend the Prime Minister and I again authorise the use of force , in strict accordance with international law and in self - defence . on Saturday , Royal Air Force Typhoons , support by two Voyager tanker , join the US force to conduct further precision strike against Houthi location in Yemen . the Typhoons employ Paveway IV precision - guide munition against three military facility , hit 11 separate target , which be identify after careful intelligence analysis at those three location and approve by I . at as - Salif , due west of Sana ' a on the Red sea coast , our aircraft target a ground control station inside a defensive position . the station have be use to control Houthi attack and reconnaissance drone launch from far inland and operate over the Red sea , target at international shipping . a second drone ground control station be confirm to be Al - Munirah on the same stretch of coastline . as with as - Salif , the station provide direct control of reconnaissance and attack drone target shipping in the Red sea , its position on the coast allow it to maintain the line of sight datum link use to target innocent shipping with accuracy . our Typhoons also attack a significant number of target at Bani . the House may recall that an initial group of facility at Bani be successfully strike by the RAF on the night of 11 January this year . since then , a further set of building at the site have be positively confirm to be involve in the Houthi operation and be , as a result , target on this occasion . as be standard practice for operation by the RAF , the strike be very carefully plan to ensure minimal risk of civilian casualty . dropping munition at night far reduce such risk and we do not believe there be any civilian casualty on Saturday night . military action can only be one element in our effort to confront these global challenge , and military action be indeed the very last resort . it would be far well if the Houthis stop their attack . our approach be therefore found on four pillar . first , we be increase diplomatic engagement . the Foreign Secretary travel to the region and meet his iranian counterpart last month to make it clear that Iran must cease supply the Houthis with weapon and intelligence and use its influence to stop the Houthi attack . the Prime Minister speak to President Biden recently to discuss our joint approach and I meet my counterpart in the region this weekend , return this morning from the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia , where I discuss regional security . secondly , we must end the illegal flow of arm to the Houthis . Britain and the US have previously intercept weapon shipment in the region , include the same kind of component that we have see use in recent strike . thirdly , we must cut off the Houthis ' financial resource . we have already — we do so last month — sanction four key figure within the Houthi regime , include the commander of the Houthi naval force and the Houthi Defence Minister . fourthly , we continue to help the people of Yemen , deliver humanitarian aid and support a negotiate peace . the UK have commit £ 88 million in humanitarian support so far this year , feed 100 , 000 yemeni every month with aid arrive through the very sea route which , ironically , the Houthis be target . let I be absolutely clear : we would much rather the Houthis simply stop attack international shipping , stop damage global trade and stop harm the prospect of their own people . at the same time , appease the Houthis today will not lead to a more stable Red sea or indeed a more stable region . we be not seek confrontation and we urge the Houthis , and all those who enable they , to stop these illegal and unacceptable attack . however , if necessary , the UK will not hesitate to respond again in self - defence . placate the sponsor of terror do not benefit our international order in the long run , or bring peace to the middle east or elsewhere in Europe or the world . the truth be that we can not ignore the importance of these great waterway for shipping . that be the reason the world back the United Nations convention on the law of the sea . it be the reason New Zealand have join the UK , the US , Australia , Canada , Bahrain , Denmark and the Netherlands in provide support to this weekend ' s air strike . as an island nation , we have always appreciate freedom of navigation and the fact that it be intrinsic to our way of life . if we do not deal with these threat , every nation will be poor . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Defence Secretary for the advance copy of his statement . we back the UK - US airstrike that take place at the weekend to protect shipping in the Red sea . we know that the strike be carry out against Houthi command centre and weapon store . we accept that they be limited , necessary and target to minimise the risk of civilian casualty . the Houthis be attack the ship of many nation , threaten maritime security and international trade , and put civilian and military life in serious danger . that be why the UN Security Council pass last month a resolution condemn Houthi action in the strong possible term and demand that their attack stop . we accept that the strike we justify , but will the Defence Secretary confirm that they be also effective ? be the target select the target hit ? be the purpose of destroy the drone control centre at as - Salif and Al - Munirah fully achieve ? minister have say that the aim of the strike be , first , to deter Houthi attack , and secondly , to degrade their capability . the first aim have not yet succeed , as Houthi attack continue , but be the fact that those attack be now less sophisticated and more sporadic a sign that the second aim may be succeed ? this be the third UK - US strike in the past three week . at what stage do three one - off strike become a sustained campaign ? if this do develop into continue military action , at what stage will the Government give Parliament a say ? before I turn to the wide role of UK force in the Red sea , let I make this point : it be the Prime Minister who should be make this statement to the House , just as he do after the two previous UK strike on Houthi target . it be the Prime Minister ' s responsibility to authorise such UK military action in the name of the Cabinet , advise by other , of course , include and especially the Defence Secretary . the Government risk downgrade respect for the convention that , have give the go - ahead for such action , it be the Prime Minister who then report directly to this House . we also back the lead role of the Royal Navy in the continue defence of shipping from all nation in the Red sea . what action be the Government take to persuade other country to join the Prosperity Guardian protection force ? how long do the Defence Secretary expect Operation Prosperity Guardian to be need ? how will the EU ' s new maritime mission to the Red sea co - ordinate operation with Prosperity Guardian ? two week ago , I ask the Defence Secretary if a UK carrier be ready to deploy to the Red sea . we now know that HMS Queen Elizabeth have serious problem , so do the UK still have the option of send a carrier to the Red sea if require , and if so , when ? military action on its own can not solve the problem in the region . what be the Government ' s diplomatic action to pressure the Houthis to cease their attack and settle the civil war in Yemen , and to pressure Iran to stop supply weapon and intelligence to the Houthis ? finally , like the Defence Secretary , I totally reject the Houthi claim that fire missile and drone at ship from around the world be somehow link to the conflict in Gaza . they have be attack oil tanker and seize ship for at least five year — not just for the 121 day since 7 October . those attack do absolutely nothing for the palestinian people , whose agony be now extreme . we want the Gaza fighting to stop now with a humanitarian truce that can build into a sustainable ceasefire , to stop the killing of innocent civilian , get all the remain hostage out and get much more aid into Gaza . the UK aid effort must be accelerate . have any more RAF flight take off since the Defence Secretary be last in this Chamber , and if not , why not ? finally , for long - term peace , there have to be a political process that can turn the rhetoric around two state live side by side in peace into reality . the House be unite in that UK vision , and I give this commitment from our side : if elect to form the next Government , Labour will lead this new push for peace . first , I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s support for this action . he ask a series of question , which I will rattle through . be the action effective ? yes , they hit the target . be all the target hit ? again , yes . we be still carry out surveillance to find out the exact impact , but I think we can be very confident that all the relevant objective be reach . we combine very closely with our US colleague , and sometimes interchange some of those target with they . the right hon . Gentleman will have note that , on this occasion , we be involve in drop munition on more target than previously , so we carry a slightly great weight than before . the right hon . Gentleman ask whether the action be successful , and rightly point out that what we be see be rather more sporadic : the attack , include on HMS Diamond and on merchant shipping , have continue , but in a much more ad hoc fashion . it be perhaps relevant that there have be no attack use multiple different weapon at the same time , which we see , for example , on 11 January . the degrading will have have some impact on that . [ Official Report , 6 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 3mc . ] ( Correction ) I will come back to the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment about the Prime Minister at the end — I want to set the record straight . the right hon . Gentleman ask about Operation Prosperity Guardian . the simple answer , of course , be that none of we know how long it will need to continue for , but we want it to come to a conclusion as quickly as possible . we utterly reject any notion that these continue attack by the Houthis be anything to do with the situation in Gaza . the Houthis be opportunist pirate who be use a situation to their benefit : a few year ago , they do not even support Hamas , but suddenly they want to be their great champion . they be over 2 , 000 kilometre away from Gaza ; they be simply use the situation to their advantage , and it be wise for the House to not over - link the two . none the less , the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to about the need to see a humanitarian truce and a sustainable ceasefire — that be the Government ' s policy . we be work extremely hard to try to achieve that , include through discussion that the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and myself be have . just yesterday , I be have those discussion in the middle east . the right hon . Gentleman ask about RAF flight . the issue be not get the aid to location — I have be work very closely with the Cypriot Government , for example , on how we can increase the amount of aid . the single big problem remain get the aid into the country . we have some success with get Kerem Shalom open , but what we really need to see be Ashdod open , in order to route that aid to Kerem Shalom and straight into Gaza . the Government and I will continue to push for that route , but the problem be not the flight take off ; it be the aid get in . finally , turn to the fact that it be myself as Defence Secretary stand at the Dispatch Box , rather than the Prime Minister , the first thing to say be that it be the Secretary of State for Defence who actually have legal responsibility for these action — who sign off the target and , indeed , the legal authority . technically , it be I who should be stand here , other than for the first couple of round , where the Prime Minister be deal with something new and it be therefore very appropriate for he to be at the Dispatch Box . the wide point that I would gently make to the right hon . Gentleman , though , be that the Prime Minister be in Northern Ireland today , do incredibly important work — [ interruption . ] I hear from a sedentary position the suggestion that we should have be recall yesterday , but I unsure whether that would have be entirely practical . it be entirely appropriate that the Prime Minister be in Northern Ireland . I would have think that the House would welcome the fact that that historic breakthrough have be mark by the Prime Minister , and it be very appropriate that I be here today to explain the activity of Saturday night to the House . do the Government accept that it be difficult to deter terrorist fanatic , and that one mainly have to contain the effectiveness of what they do until they be ultimately destroy , preferably by our regional ally ? do the Secretary of State feel that there be in fact a link to a separate conflict , and that be the conflict in Ukraine ? be it not more than a coincidence that the proxy of Russia ' s ally in the middle east have be so much more active while Russia be so desperate for we to turn our attention away from support Ukraine ? as ever , my right hon . friend have absolutely hit the nail on the head . Russia and Iran be work together . actually , the same kind of drone — sometimes the Shahed drone — that be be fire in Ukraine by the Russians , courtesy of Iran , be also be fire by the Houthis . he make an excellent linkage point , and he be absolutely right . I call the SNP spokesperson . the people of Scotland and elsewhere on these island deserve to know what the plan be for this crisis in the Red sea — not the timing , the detail of mission , the tactical ambition or the resource behind these , but the broad strategy be pursue with lethal force in our name and in the absence of parliamentary approval . we have already make it clear from the SNP Benches that we support the Government and international partner in direct action to uphold freedom of navigation and the law of the sea , but this should never have be take for grant and it remain subject to a realistic interpretation of both self - defence and imminence . we see the toll that Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine have take on our constituent and business over energy cost , so we can not allow this to be compound far by interrupt global supply chain , nor can we ever tolerate or stand idly by while seafarer be put at risk , whatever the suppose aim of the Houthis or their backer may be . will this be a sustained engagement ? I do not know , and neither do the rest of Parliament . one way or another , an ally seaborne strike capability will be engage , so with one of the two aircraft carrier in the Royal Navy out of commission again , the Type 23 frigate fleet on its knee , and the Type 43 destroyer fleet still go through PIP — the power improvement project — who in the Government have a grip of the Royal Navy ' s resource ? fundamentally , what be the UK Government ' s plan to ensure that this campaign be not escalatory , and what be the thinking behind any assessment that they have make ? in closing , this be not about support Gazans , or people die or flee persecution in Gaza , but about the Houthis pursue their own aim . however , I would be interested to know what the Government ' s assessment be of the uptick in temperature in the middle east — in Gaza , in Yemen and with NATO ally personnel be kill . listen carefully to the hon . Gentleman , I detect that he support the action that have be take . as I have say , it can not be right that international shipping be prevent from its own freedom of navigation . again , respect the will of the House and listen very carefully , it be quite clear that the official opposition support this action , as do the Government and , as I now learn , do those on his own Benches , and I remember the Liberal Democrats say it previously . so I think it be quite clear that there be a strong support in this House . it be also important that there be sufficient freedom of action to ensure the safety and security of our airman and woman when they undertake these action , rather than flag they substantially in advance . the hon . Gentleman mention — and so do the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) — the aircraft carrier , and I should just address this point . it be the case that , actually through an abundance of caution on a final inspection , the decision be take for the aircraft carrier not to sail . I have speak to the First Sea Lord , who have make it clear to I that , if there have be an emergency situation — the House will recall that it be go to join Exercise Steadfast Defender — it quite probably would have sail . the fact be that we have another one , and that will sail to the exercise . on the frigate and the destroyer , I just disagree with the hon . Gentleman . I have be out to visit those on HMS Diamond in the Red sea , and they be absolutely prepared and ready to go . that ' s one . as the hon . Gentleman say , that be one , but today that ship have be replace by HMS Richmond , which now take on that mantle . we have 16 ship under construction or on order . I wonder how many we would get from the SNP , with its approach to defence . I thank my right hon . friend for his in - depth statement , but there be concern about stretch the Royal Navy . it be a lead , world - class Navy , but it be suffer from personnel issue in crew the ship , and responsibility for that lie back at the Treasury provide the revenue stream need to make sure the capital equipment we have get can be use most effectively . what representation be my right hon . friend make to ensure that the growth in maritime concern around the world will be meet by a commitment from the Treasury ? on a wide armed force and MOD note , we have £ 288 . 6 billion for equipment over the next 10 year . my right hon . friend be absolutely right that that have to be match with the sailor , the airman and woman and the Army able to resource that equipment , and I have some good news for he . since we have be talk very actively about these issue , we have see an eight - year high in application to the Royal Navy , a six - year high in application to the Army and a 42 % increase between this January and last January in application to join the Royal Air Force . I predict we be make progress . I wonder whether the Secretary of State have see the front page of the Financial Times today because it outline how Iran have be use Lloyds and Santander account to evade sanction . the US be accuse front company of fund the irgc with hundred of million of dollar and work with russian intelligence to raise money for iranian proxy . I be sure all in this House would be appal to know that money launder here in our capital be be use against our own troop by the Houthis , so what assessment have the Government make of those allegation by our ally ? do that not yet again show that we must proscribe the irgc now ? this issue be repeatedly raise in the House and the hon . Lady will know , as she will have hear the response many time before , that we do not routinely comment on proscription . it be the case however that we do sanction , and we have sanction the entirety of the irgc already , as well as take a number of different action . she will appreciate that this matter do not come directly within the Defence portfolio , but I know that she will have the opportunity to press Foreign Office and Home Office Ministers at a future time , and we do keep this matter under constant review . I agree with the Secretary of State and the Government that we do not want to see an escalation in the region and that we want to be proportionate in our response and calibrate our response not to provoke and antagonise , but be it not the case that we might actually be hit the wrong target — that we be hit proxy of Iran and , while I believe in peace and diplomacy , the malevolent factor in the region , in all of this , be Iran ? it might be the case that , while we have the good of diplomatic intention and we do not want to provoke Iran to a major conflict with NATO , the US or the UK , put off that decision now will cost more life in the future . Iran and the regime — not the iranian people but the regime in Iran — be behind all this . they be the one destabilise Israel , the Abraham accord and so on . I hope the Secretary of State will take a strategic view and make hard choice on Iran , because , whether we like it or not , it be come . my right hon . friend make the excellent point that Iran be behind all this . Iran be behind Hamas , Hezbollah , the Houthis and the irgc - align militia that we have see attack not just american troop — I often hear it be american personnel have be attack 160 separate time in Syria and Iraq , but in fact about a third of those occasion involve british troop as well . on every occasion , Iran be behind all of this . I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend and we be work hard to pressurise Iran into realise that its current approach can do no good at all and will destabilise the region , which it claim it do not want to do . let I first make the point that a direct attack on Iran would be insanity ; the region would be provoke and other would be drag into it . I understand why the Government be say that it be wise " to not over - link " Houthis strike with Gaza , but the reality be that the middle east region be on the edge of conflagration as a result of the war that be go on and the attack on Gaza . the priority must therefore be to secure peace in Gaza . we have a limited role in that , but we know that Netanyahu would secure peace if pressurise to do so by the American Government , because realistically they be the only power that can influence he and israeli strategy . what further talk have take place with the Biden Government to ensure that they exercise the maximum pressure on Netanyahu to get to that peace negotiating table ? the right hon . Gentleman will be aware , I hope , that the UK and the US work very closely on this . I be in the States last week . I meet Blinken , Lloyd Austin and other to discuss exactly the point that the right hon . Gentleman raise about how we bring together a solution that not only provide , ultimately , the palestinian state for the palestinian people , but security guarantee for Israel . it be also important to realise that we be work closely in a number of different sphere , include on the lebanese border , where we be work hard to try to prevent a further conflict there . we should remember that 125 , 000 Israelis have have to move from that border because of the activity of lebanese Hezbollah . we be work with the lebanese Government . I see the yemeni Defence Minister yesterday , and we discuss how to prevent that conflict from become part of this , too . the Government be pull every single possible diplomatic lever in what be clearly a very complex position . the Defence Secretary be right that this mission must continue to stand up and defend international law in the Red sea , but the mission to remove the Houthi threat and keep the Red sea safe could last month , and it be not sustainable to continue task Typhoons from Cyprus for each mission or subsequent future threat . will the Defence Secretary therefore agree that there be a case for an urgent operational requirement to upgrade the Type - 45 destroyer , give the continued inability of their vertical launch system to strike target at range inland ? I know that my right hon . friend take a huge interest in this matter , and he will be interested to hear that on Friday I be on HMS Somerset in Devonport , where they be fit a surface - to - surface system , which may or may not be appropriate in this particular type of conflict . I want to take issue with one thing . we be in a coalition here , work with the US and other . as we have demonstrate repeatedly , there be no issue with Typhoons fly a long distance . indeed , when America carry out their unrelated attack for Tower 22 , they fly all the way from the United States . fly a long distance be no sign that the capability be not there in itself . will the Secretary of State please have another go at give a well answer to the question from the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) about the extremely serious report in today ' s Financial Times that two of Britain ' s main bank be indirectly help to fund the Houthis , with whom we be now in some sort of conflict ? the right hon . Gentleman will have hear my answer a moment ago . I know that he want I to go into further detail , but I be unable to do that at the Dispatch Box right now . we have note both the question and the article of this morning . we be also intensely engage in find the good way to ensure that iranian influence , whether through the UK or in the region , be limited . I do not think I can go far at this moment . the Houthi rebel be violent extremist antisemite , and it be right that we take action to combat their aggression in the Red sea . it seem that there be success in degrade their capability . be the Secretary of State confident that we will get to the point where we can stop the attack altogether ? I think the clock be run down for the Houthis , in as much as their ability be be degrade , as my right hon . friend point out — they do not have the eye and ear from the radar station ; they be more reliant still on Iran , and only the UK and the US have do interdiction of their weapon . there be a limitation to this . none the less , we still think that would continue , if they choose to , even at that low level , but it be important that they cease and stop this . we be put pressure on , as I have describe , through every possible mean , include very extensive talk that I have yesterday in Saudi Arabia with various different people , include not just the Saudis but the Yemenis themselves . will the Secretary of State confirm what the long - term strategy be and how it relate to the ongoing precarious situation in Yemen ? do the Government plan to commit to sustained military action ? if so , surely it be only right for Parliament to have its say in the appropriate way . this be the third time that we have come to Parliament and make a statement — I know that the hon . Lady have make other contribution to the debate — so we do feel that Parliament be be fully engage in the process . we be not look to make this a sustained , long - term military action . indeed , I can guarantee for the House that if the Houthis stop , we will have absolutely no requirement again to drop munition on they . but it be a fact that they be the one interrupt international maritime activity , and we can not stand by and allow that to happen . the Defence Secretary can not comment specifically on target acquisition , but will he please confirm to the House that our intelligence , surveillance , target acquisition and reconnaissance be focus on those Houthi capability directly engage in the attack on international shipping ? be it reasonable to assume that further degradation of those capability will result in increase security in the Red sea ? my hon . Friend ask a good question that have not yet be ask . the answer be yes . we be look carefully , and the location choose on this occasion be indeed from a combination of US and UK intelligence . the Government be right to have this strong response for what may seem to many to be a faraway war or incident , but which could impact so much on people ' s life here in the United Kingdom , through food shortage , supply chain disruption and inflation . give the report about shortage of Royal Navy personnel , the difficulty with munition , the difficulty with some ship and now the increase demand on the Navy because of tension with China and Russia — maybe even Argentina in future — will the Secretary of State assure we that we have the capability to play our part in keep supply chain open ? what discussion have he have with other ally to get they involve in the task of support we in this job ? the right hon . Gentleman be right about the importance of trade . some 90 % of our good come to this country via the sea , so it really matter to the United Kingdom , but it matter to the whole world . he mention personnel , munition and so on , as have one or two other member . in my time as Defence Secretary , I have not be unable to deploy exactly where I have need to , for example at the request of NATO when we deploy to Kosovo — they have return home now — or for this conflict in the middle east , where we have need to carry out the action that we be discuss . on each occasion , those have be available . I previously mention a £ 288 billion 10 - year programme on equipment and the success in recruit more personnel . I encourage other country to match our defence budget , which be comfortably above 2 % of GDP and head up to 2 . 5 % — the soon they do that , the well . I fully support the Government ' s action in the Red sea . the irony of the iranian regime accuse we of destabilise the region through our action will not be lose on reasonable people . do the Secretary of State agree that those demonstrator on the street of London applaud what the Houthi rebel have be do be at good useful idiot and at bad truly the enemy within ? I use my own language , but it be disgraceful to see people go out and support those who be indiscriminately fire at merchant ship — that be absolutely appalling . I will not repeat my hon . friend ' s language ; I will put that support down to ignorance rather than anything else . the Secretary of State be rightly clear about breach of international law by the Houthis in the Red sea . can he be equally clear about breach of international law by all side in Gaza ? do he think it will help reduce hostility across the middle east if the Government can build a broad international coalition in support of their diplomatic and military aim ? the United Kingdom Government always want international humanitarian law to be adhere to , and we make that point repeatedly to every side in this conflict . I think the hon . Gentleman be drive at Israel . to answer his question directly , Israel be include . Hamas could end the conflict very quickly if they release the hostage that they have kidnap and cease fire on Israel . on the wide coalition , I describe how New Zealand be now on board with the military action , but I should mention that 20 - plus country be involve in Operation Prosperity Guardian , and the EU have form an additional operation , which we welcome . far to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Tom Hunt ) , as well as open support for the Houthis this weekend on the street of central London , some protestor in the pro - palestinian marche again call for an intifada and hold up deeply racist antisemitic sign , one of which include inform Israelis — we presume jewish Israelis — that they be indigenous to nowhere other than hell . I be not sure that it be just ignorance ; I think something more sinister be at play among some of the protestor . we should call it what it be : pure and simple Jew hate . will the Secretary of State inform the House whether he have speak to anyone else across Government about more action to deal with some of the hate on our street ? the Home Secretary continuously keep this matter under review , and meet police chief to ensure that they have the power to combat what my hon . friend rightly describe as absolutely disgusting behaviour , which have no place at all on our street . I be sure that the whole House need no reminding , but perhaps the people who go out campaigning do : the Houthis ' slogan be " death to America , death to Israel , death to the Jews no matter where they be . " there be no place for that on the street of Britain . it be an extraordinary situation where the Secretary of State come here , make a matter - of - fact statement about the launch of missile against a number of target and country , give no indication of the long - term war aim by the UK at present , and say absolutely nothing about the crying , desperate need for a ceasefire to protect the people of Gaza from further death and destruction . do he not realise that the extension of the conflict by Britain and the United States to at least four other country risk a huge conflagration across the whole region ? I would have be much happy have he come here and say that Britain be determined to try to deal with the injustice in the region and to bring about a peace process rather than further militarisation of the seaway around all those country . surely peace be something to aim for , rather than the continuation of yet more war . never have I disagree so much with the right hon . Gentleman — and that be say something , give that he want to scrap Trident and pull we out of NATO . the statement be on the Red sea . I be surprised that he be not more appreciative of the geography . the attack in the Red sea be a very long way from Gaza . he misunderstand why I have come to this House : to talk about munition on a single country , not three country , as he say . I speak to the yemeni Government yesterday , who thank we for our work . it be a shame that he can not do the same . I commend the Defence Secretary for his excellent work . he talk about Yemen . its Foreign Minister , Ahmad Awad bin Mubarak , say on Thursday that there be no doubt that Iran ' s Quds Force operative have be deploy to his own coastline . what assessment have my right hon . Friend make of the extent of Iran ' s aggressive military adventurism and its destabilising effect on international peace and security ? quite simply , Iran be a malign influence not just on Yemen but on the entire region . my right hon . and learn Friend be right to point out the manner in which it have help to create instability in the Red sea . I be afraid that the only language that the Iranians understand be the approach that we have be take : to show they that there be a red line and they have cross it . I completely understand and agree with the need to protect international shipping and maritime security and to ensure the safety of civilian and seafarer in the Red sea . however , some of we be also concerned about a wide escalation in this already volatile region . will the Defence Secretary outline what step the Government be take , diplomatic or otherwise , to stop we be suck into an escalating regional conflict ? the action we be discuss be very specific and targeted , as the hon . Gentleman will recognise . they be not open to be repeat unless the attack on we continue , so they can actually be stop immediately . in term of wide diplomacy , which I have go into in some detail , I have meet with Sullivan , Blinken and Lloyd Austin in the States , while the Foreign Secretary have be do the same with his opposite number . as I have just describe , I be in the region until this morning , where I be have extensive discussion on how to bring this situation to a conclusion . I be afraid it be not always possible to provide a line - by - line explanation of every single element of those talk , which I appreciate be frustrating for the House , but we be make broad and strenuous effort to achieve exactly what the hon . Gentleman be look for . the Defence Secretary have say the Government be look at a comprehensive strategy with a four - pronged approach to degrade the Houthis . we have classify the action of the Houthis as terrorist and say that they pose a significant threat to british interest . I then look at the " Proscribed Terrorist Organisations " document from the House of Commons Library , which list non - state actor Ansar Al Islam , Al Ittihad Al Islamia and Hezbollah , all of which meet the criterion for proscription , yet the Houthis be not proscribe as a terrorist organisation . the Secretary of State say that we have sanction some high - level individual . the US have proscribe they ; we have not . my question to the Defence Secretary be this : will the UK set up a contact group to deal with non - state actor in the long term ? this threat be not go to go away . the Houthis will splinter into other terrorist organisation in the region . my hon . friend rightly point out that the US have take some action , although it be not quite the same as our proscription — what it have do in this case with the Houthis be sort of an in - between version . of course , we have make sure that a number of individual , whom I name in my comment , have effectively be deal with . the wide question be get the balance right between ensure that food aid can still reach Yemen — that be the discussion I be have with the yemeni Government yesterday — and full proscription . we need to make sure we get that balance right , and my right hon . friend the Home Secretary be work very closely on that . whether one would call that a contact group or something else , I can assure my hon . friend that the work be be do . like other , I commend the Government ' s diplomatic effort to resolve the broad conflict — and this one , in fact . if diplomatic mean fail to resolve this particular conflict in the Red sea , be the Secretary of State determine to pursue the military option to the very end ? as I have describe in answer to other member , we see this action as be very specific and one that do not need to continue . what I do not see as be short term and specific be the diplomatic process that the hon . Gentleman refer to , which now need to do what the world have be unable to do for decade : form a wide peace in the middle east . the piece may be there , with potential normalisation between country such as Saudi Arabia and Israel . Hamas ' s intent , and Iran ' s intent , be to disrupt all of that . we understand that , which be why we have to work all the hard to overcome their approach to create instability in the region . we can not overestimate the value of freedom of navigation in the region , so it be not surprising that New Zealand have join the UK , the US , Australia , Canada , Bahrain , Denmark and the Netherlands in provide support over the weekend . what concern I be Egypt , which face both economic and social disadvantage . the Suez canal provide $ 9 . 4 billion of trade to the egyptian economy , and the last thing we want be for that to be disrupt . can the Secretary of State advise what he will do to help to counter the destabilising activity of the Houthi pirate in the region ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that this be devastating for the egyptian economy . I be in Egypt a couple of week ago , where I meet my opposite number , the egyptian Defence Minister , and we discuss exactly this point . clearly , ship be avoid the area and take a much long route around at the moment , so it be in everybody ' s interest , and those of the Suez canal in particular , to see this resolve as quickly as possible . it be report last night that only the UK and US be involve actively in the military action over the weekend , with that be attribute to the different risk assessment that the UK and US have compare with other international partner . be that the case ? if so , will the Secretary of State discuss what the particular concern be in the different risk assessment in respect of escalation of the conflict ? it be difficult for I to answer on why different country would take part or not . a much wide group of country take part in Operation Prosperity Guardian — the freedom of navigation part of this . a number of the other country have actively provide assistance , include intelligence officer and the like . the truth of the matter be that only relatively few country have the capability — the capacity — to carry out this action , and it should be a matter of pride that when push come to shove , it be the UK that be able to step up and carry out some of this difficult work . give the continue attack by Iranian - back Houthis , will the Government , as well as pursue diplomacy and try to stop the illegal flow of weapon and finance , be prepared to intensify military action with our ally , in self - defence , to degrade the ability to make further attack on commercial shipping ? I should be absolutely clear : we will only act within international law . that law be about self - defence , so we respond to the attack in turn . we be not look to increase the implication of this , as I have describe carefully , because we want to bring it to a close . however , this remain open - ended and we will have to go back if the attack do not stop . it be not simply the Houthis who say that this issue be inextricably link to Gaza ; the embassy of Yemen have make that clear in paragraph 4 of its letter to all mp , and Brigadier Deverell , the former british military attach é in Yemen and Saudi Arabia , have say that it be link . he have go on to add that these strike will fail and will not resolve the situation . so rather than lurch towards world war three , and rather than an escalation of the conflict , widen it beyond country and this limited territory , be it not time to ensure that Israel be call to heel , that its genocide cease and that we get an immediate ceasefire ? [ interruption . ] I think the hon . Gentleman will detect that the House have not follow the logic of his argument . there be a difference between this absolutely not be inextricably link to Gaza , apart from when Opposition member might try to link it , and the Houthis claim that it be somehow link as a badge of convenience — as a way of try to muscle in on that action . I be very , very sorry that the hon . Gentleman choose to repeat their propaganda . in addition to the IRGC deployment on the coastline of Yemen that my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) reference , Tehran have deploy its Alborz warship to the Red sea . we also know that two US Navy seal have die after attempt to seize iranian weapon bind for the Houthis , yet Iran continue to evade any meaningful deterrence . do the Secretary of State agree that Iran must not be allow to outsource the responsibility for its regional escalation to its proxy and must be deter directly ? my hon . friend make an excellent point about the link between the iranian ship that loiter in the region and the item that be ship to the Houthis , which we know come from Iran , because of the interdiction that we have make previously . it be probably wise if I do not go into too much detail , but to say that we be aware of this be absolutely correct , and the whole world need to carry on pile the pressure on Iran to cease and desist from this behaviour . the Defence Secretary be right to highlight the risk to humanitarian aid in the region , not least give the catastrophic situation in Gaza . what step have he deploy over the last four month , through air capability as well as sea capability , to establish route for aid to reach Gaza by sea or by air ? I would link that with the action we have be take to degrade the Houthis ' ability to prevent aid from reach people . as I say in my statement , the Yemenis obtain almost all their food via the Red sea , so I would class all the action that we have take , in three round of strike , as very much part of get that food into the country . as I mention , we provide significant amount of aid , we feed about 100 , 000 yemeni a month on the back of it , and it be the Houthis who be try to prevent that from happen . we support the right for shipping to pass freely . have talk to business , I understand that they be already feel the effect on their supply chain . if one of the purpose of the strike be to deter the Houthis , it seem that they have not get the message yet , and it be not clear whether they ever will . I fear there be a risk that we be go to escalate action in the region . the Secretary of State have mention a number of activity that he have undertake on a non - military basis to try to reduce tension , but be there anything he can do that he have not do already to help end this conflict ? although it be clear that the Houthi attack have not end , as the shadow Defence Secretary say , there do appear to have be a difference in the cadence . the mass attack that we see on 11 January , for example , have not be repeat , partly because the Houthis ' ability have be degrade . [ Official Report , 6 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 3mc . ] ( Correction ) however , we be always look at other mean , include route via the United Nations , and at the wide picture of , for instance , the peace treaty between Saudi Arabia and Yemen . all those element fit into the way in which we be apply pressure to try to bring the situation to a close . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , and for his strong and robust determination to stop the attack on international shipping . I say , " well do , Secretary of State , " and let I also say that we in the House , or certainly most of we , support the line that he be take . do the Secretary of State agree that the fact that pro - Hamas Houthi site be celebrate the effect that the strike in the Red sea be have on food and other supply chain send a signal that the word speak and action take by this country — our government — and our ally be not yet have the desire effect ? what step will the Secretary of State and our ally take not simply to prevent trade route difficulty from escalate already eye - watering price , but to send the clear message that we in the United Kingdom be not afraid to use our strength and our intelligence to respond adequately and , if necessary , even more strongly ? the hon . Gentleman have make a very worthwhile point . it be clear that the Houthis , while perhaps no long able to act as they once do , be not fully degraded . there must surely come a time when they understand that this be no long in their interest , because we be work actively to intercept new supply as far as possible and they will continue to be degrade if they continue to act as they have in respect of commercial shipping and , of course , the Royal Navy . there will eventually be a conclusion to that , but I do not want to mislead the House by say that this be over , because I simply can not guarantee that for one moment , so let I make it clear again from this Dispatch Box that we will always have to keep the option open if it be not over . disability Action Plan today , and in British Sign Language for those watch on Parliament Live , I be delighted to deliver on the Government ' s commitment to transform the everyday life of disabled people across the country for the well . we as a Government be work to make this country the most accessible place in the world for disabled people to live , work and thrive , and today I be proud to announce another important milestone : the publication of the disability action plan , which will actively make a difference to disabled people ' s daily life . in December 2022 my predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Corby ( Tom Pursglove ) , announce the intention to develop a new disability action plan to set out the practical , immediate action that Ministers across Government will take to improve disabled people ' s daily life . follow that , my Department and the Disability Unit do a huge amount of work , and I thank everyone involve . since come into the role I have spend time listen , engage and continue to ensure that the voice of disabled people be properly hear , as that be an important priority for the Government . that be why in July 2023 we consult on the draft disability action plan , set out a range of proposal where we feel we could take immediate action or lie the foundation for long - term change . we rightly want to give everyone , and most importantly disabled people , disabled people ' s organisation and other key charity and stakeholder , the chance to have their say on the draft plan . the consultation run for 12 week and I be immensely grateful to every single person who take the time to respond . in the consultation we set out 12 area for action . each area propose how the Disability Unit , together with my Department , other Government Departments and partner , would take action to drive improvement in those area . since the consultation close in October , we have be carefully work through more than 1 , 300 response , which pleasingly show broad support for almost all our proposal . we have use these response , along with feedback from a series of event and discussion during the consultation period , to finalise the proposal , add a number of new measure to respond specifically to these consultation finding . an independent analysis of the consultation finding will be publish on gov . uk today alongside the final plan when I conclude my statement . the disability action plan we be publish today set out 32 practical action , which I will lead across Government to take forward over the next 12 month with disabled people , disabled people ' s organisation , other Government Departments and public service provider to improve the everyday life of disabled people . these action sit across 14 different area , aim to : well support disabled people who want to be elect to public office ; include disabled people ' s need more effectively in emergency and resilience planning ; include disabled people ' s need in climate - relate policy ; improve information and outcome for family in which someone be or become disabled ; make playground more accessible for everybody ; help our business of all size and sector to understand the need of , and deliver improvement for , disabled people ; explore if the UK could host the Special Olympics world summer game in 2031 ; improve support for people who have guide or assistance dog ; help the Government to measure how effective their policy and service be for disabled people ; research issue face disabled people in the future so the that Government can be more proactive in address they ; make Government publication and communication more accessible ; improve understanding of the cost of live for disabled people ; promote well understanding across Government of the United Nations convention on the right of person with disability ; and monitor and report progress of the disability action plan . I can confirm that we will provide Parliament with update on our progress in deliver against these action in the plan in both six and 12 month ' time . the disability action plan will be take forward in parallel with the national disability strategy . publish in 2021 , this wide strategy set out the long - term vision to transform disabled people ' s live for the well . a write ministerial statement to Parliament on 18 September 2023 provide an update on progress on those commitment . take together , the disability action plan and the national disability strategy demonstrate this Government ' s clear focus on improve disabled people ' s daily life in the here and now , and in the year to come . as well as the disability action plan and the national disability strategy , the Government be already deliver significant work in area that disabled people have tell we be a priority , include reform to employment and welfare through " Transforming Support " , the health and disability White Paper , and the back to work plan , and improve health and social care through the " People at the Heart of Care " White Paper . far ongoing work by Departments include cost of live support through help for Households , as well as the SEND and alternative provision improvement plan . today ' s new disability action plan be another vital pillar in improve disabled people ' s everyday life . work with disabled people and their representative organisation , and with my colleague across Government in my role as lead for the disability unit and chair of the cross - Government ministerial disability champion , we will take immediate action now and in the come month to achieve real , tangible improvement for disabled people , to help to deliver on their need and to change disabled people ' s daily live for the well . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . the Government have have consultation after consultation , and they have publish different strategy , but it sadly remain the case that we have have nothing that actually deliver a well life for disabled people . the conservative party ' s 2019 manifesto promise to deliver " a National Strategy for disabled People before the end of 2020 . " it claim this would be an ambitious strategy to support disabled people in all aspect and phase of their life . what have we actually see ? the Government finally launch their disability survey in January 2021 , and it close in April 2021 , at the start of the pandemic . disabled people be disproportionately affect by covid , account for six in 10 death . they struggle to access food , personal protective equipment and social care , and many be shield . the question we must ask be why a national strategy for disabled people be not publish until 28 July 2021 , in the summer recess , with no chance for parliamentary scrutiny . I be grateful to have the opportunity to respond to the Minister today . the disability action plan contain some positive . it attempt to address some of the well - know barrier that disable people continue to face , through measure such as tackle guide dog refusal , raise the profile of assistive technology and increase support for disabled people to take part in politic . there be also a commitment to British Sign Language interpretation at all no . 10 press conference , which many will remember that I have argue for on numerous occasion . it be about time . I do not think any Member would argue that those be not important issue that the Government can and should look at , but there be one glaringly obvious issue that the action plan fail to address . the top concern for disabled people now be the cost of live crisis — not my assumption but what disabled people be tell I and what charity be find on the ground . a survey carry out by Sense find that 85 % of people with complex disability be worried about the rise cost of living . the Royal National Institute of Blind People note in its initial analysis of the plan that " it ' s disappoint there ' s no mention of any … support measure to address the rise cost of living . " scope , the disability equality charity , have calculate that , on average , disabled household face extra cost of £ 975 per month to have the same standard of living as non - disabled household . energy bill , for example , remain high , which make day - to - day live very expensive for those who rely on specialist medical equipment or need to heat their home more than the average household . the Government have make two disability cost of live payment of £ 150 , but many disabled people have tell I those barely touch the side , with many lose their warm home discount at the same time . the situation be exacerbate by the fact that our current social security system put disabled people through multiple upsetting and dehumanising assessment . they be deny their legal entitlement far too often , unless they have the strength and support to go through the appeal process . the Government ' s White Paper , publish last year , cause a huge amount of concern by propose to scrap the work capability assessment , leave disabled people reliant on the flawed personal independence payment assessment . the disability action plan do nothing to improve the assessment process . without address those fundamental problem , the action outline in the plan feel like little more than tinker around the edge . disabled people need proper action that deal with all the societal barrier that make their life challenging . may I say that the Government could have start by reinstate the Minister for disabled People role to Minister of State level ? I thank the hon . Lady for what , I think , be a warm welcome in there somewhere — indicate dissent . not so much , she say , so there we go . I reiterate that the disability action plan be not just another consultation , but real , tangible action to change people ' s daily life , with 13 practical action across 14 different area . [ Official Report , 19 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 10mc . ] ( Correction ) it be about build a society that work for everyone . the hon . member for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) be right to point out that day - to - day life be too difficult for disabled people and their family ; I agree with she . that be why we have take the opportunity we can take in this round , alongside the wide national disability strategy . I would love to boil the ocean and to have fix everything in the month or so I have be in the role , but I assure hon . member that irrespective of the perceive level of the role , I have the convene power and support across Government . I be delighted that the hon . Lady keep push for my elevation , but under the previous Labour Administration the Minister for Disabled People be an Under - Secretary of State . I be extremely proud to be an Under - Secretary of State — a very good one . thank you , I will take that . under our government , the role have be mix , which do not mean that we do not take it seriously . I take it extremely seriously . I have come to the role with my own personal experience of live with my father , who become disabled and live under the Court of Protection . when I be grow up , my mum work with disabled adult , get they into work . she be an early part of the Riding for the Disabled Association and the Special Olympics movement . no matter what rank I have in the Government , I bring that experience and interest to the role . I say to people watch that the pay cheque or the rank simply do not matter — I be in this for they . the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Amanda Solloway ) , and I have meet to discuss the point make by the hon . member for Lewisham , Deptford about the cost of energy . my hon . friend be a disability champion across Government , as be I , so we will continue to engage . I reiterate that the cost of living payment will start again tomorrow . some 6 . 4 million people across the UK have be able to claim an extra £ 150 in addition to their disability benefit , as the hon . Lady mention . it be , of course , a challenging time for everybody . we put in place the furlough scheme and the other support for business and community across the country to try to keep people on their foot . between 2022 and 2025 , we provide £ 104 billion to help people with the cost of living . to anybody who have a disability , a health condition or any other need , I say : please look at the benefit calculator on gov . uk . they should look at the household support fund , which run for a full year — a whole six month long than the previous one . there be a huge amount of interest in it , so I urge people to contact their local authority about it . I be delighted that many people with caring responsibility and those look after disabled people have be help in this way . finally , the help - to - claim service be there as well , provide by the DWP work with Citizens Advice , to make sure that those in need do not have to worry , because the Government , both locally and nationally , be there for they . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . I be sure that as an ambassador for the Special Olympics , my constituent the great Lawrie McMenemy will welcome the announcement that my hon . friend have just make . specifically , she have announce 32 practical action across 14 separate area . that give an idea of the scale of the challenge when it come to co - ordination and accountability . there be disability champion across every Government Department , and of course there be the disability unit in the Cabinet Office . how will she make sure that the challenge of co - ordination be successfully meet , so that my constituent and each Member in this House will know who to turn to , and who to hold accountable , if those 32 practical action be not deliver ? I thank my right hon . friend for her point about the Special Olympics . when I be Sports Minister , I have the honour of meet her constituent . I share his passion for a very important movement . it be potentially life change , which be why I be delighted that it be in this plan . my right hon . friend ask about the evidence and datum around the disability action plan . the plan be there to improve the quality of government - hold datum , and to increase insight into the need and barrier that affect disabled people ' s daily life . ultimately , we will evaluate the impact of these policy and service , and we will use datum , when they be available , to monitor and assess the outcome of the plan . we will start work on develop more comprehensive evaluation . I know that , through her role as the Chair of the Select Committee , she will absolutely measure I and my role in this . I assure she , the House and all those watch that the plan be absolutely about learn , and deliver on this challenge . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Minister for prior sight of her statement . this disability action plan be not a plan ; it be a mishmash of short - term policy . some of the proposal be welcome and should have be sort out long ago . other be unclear and simply do not address the most pressing concern of disabled people . in my submission to the DAP consultation , I list key area that have be overlook . cost of living and welfare support be still miss , even though these area be consistently raise by disability organisation and individual . the Minister say that the Government will improve understanding of the cost of live for disabled people . what well understanding do they need ? for the past two year , disabled people have be cry out for more target financial support to assist with their additional cost of living need . the Minister say that the Government will promote well understanding of the United Nations convention on the right of person with disability across Government . what do that actually mean ? in 2016 , the UK Government be find to have systematically fail disabled people . that be still happen . the work capability assessment reform will subject more disabled people to the cruel , punitive , and ineffective sanction regime . why ? if the Government be serious about improve the life of those with disability , they should start by scrap the proposal ahead of the 6 March Budget . how much of this plan will actually be enact before the general election ? in contrast , the Scottish Government be act within budgetary constraint to improve the life of disabled people through the adult disability payment and child disability payment . the independent living fund , with an initial investment of up to £ 9 million , will enable people with disability to improve their life . finally , no offence , but the downgrading of the role of Minister for disability indicate this Government ' s disregard for people with disability . I thank the hon . Lady for her response ; I be glad that advanced sight of the statement be welcome , at least . I reiterate to those watch that this plan be one pillar of the work that we be do across all Government Departments to help disabled people to succeed , and to make this the most accessible place to live , work and thrive . the work capability assessment will be change . my engagement so far have be very much about what disabled people feel . I be in Aberdeen on Thursday , chat to some of our claimant and those work with a local charity . many of those disabled people be so frustrated that they can not get a chance to work , and to try thing . the action plan be not about punitive sanction ; it be about give disabled people the opportunity to take part in wide daily life , which we all take for grant . I point she to the cost of live support , and the around £ 200 million in Barnett consequential for her Government . I have consistently ask where the money be go and how they be spend it . I would love to have point that out to those I meet on Thursday . this issue be not about party - political barneying in this Chamber ; the hon . Lady and I share the view that it be about support disabled people in their daily life . I strongly believe that these measure will change their daily life . we will report in six month — if she know more than I , and the next election be before that , then it will not be I do so — and in 12 month . of course , she and I will continue to discuss these matter until the election . I be sure that where we can work together , we will . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , in respect of a charity to do with deaf people and cancer . I welcome my hon . friend to her post . I know from many year of work with she that she be a very capable Minister who will take the job extremely seriously and give it she all . disabled people have tell I very clearly that they need a senior , serious voice in Government . will she say a little more about how she will be that voice , and how she will listen to disabled people and reflect their need inside Government ? also , to echo my right hon . friend the Member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) , the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , I press the Minister to say a little more about how she will ensure that disabled people ' s issue of accessibility be not an afterthought in Government but be put first , so that inclusion be by design , and important aim be all achieve . I thank my right hon . friend for her kind word , and for her incredible , impeccable support ; she take the British Sign Language Act 2022 through Parliament , and I thank she for the work that she have do in my Department , and her continue interest in these matter . fundamentally , the disability action plan be about disabled people ' s daily life , and their need not be an afterthought in any part of Government . I will be honest : come into this role , I find get message out extremely challenging . I will take that forward by promote accessible communication , monitor standard and training , and ensure full inclusion . the hon . member for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) mention the no . 10 Downing Street briefing . it be so important that everybody know the central message ; everyone need to be include . that be why one of the action come down to local resilience forum , and have the right engagement at a local level in time of need . I be sure that my right hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Chloe Smith ) will welcome that , too . I call the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee . the Select Committee call for a review of the underperforming Disability Confident scheme . that review be delay by the pandemic , but in October we be tell that official be refine the recommendation . can the Minister tell we what the plan say about Disability Confident , and do it hold out the prospect of short waiting time for access to work ? it be remiss of I not to reply just now to the point raise by my right hon . friend the Member for Norwich North ( Chloe Smith ) about the strong voice across Government . that is , of course , the Secretary of State , who sit in the Cabinet and work alongside I to represent disabled people ' s voice . to respond to the Chair of the Select Committee , Access to work grant , which help with extra cost beyond standard reasonable adjustment , be important for my Department as we smash the employment goal and try to do more on disability employment . he be right to ask about that and to challenge Disability Confident . it be not just a nice thing that company put on their website ; it need to deliver change for disabled people in the workplace . we will look at the disability employment goal ; I be look at access to work , and I will look at Disability Confident , just as the Select Committee have do . I urge he to watch this space . I welcome these proposal , and I thank the fantastic disability unit team , and the stakeholder who have help to shape they — in particular , the proposal on accessible play park . I have be work with organisation such as Benjamin ' s Smile and Mums on a Mission , both in my constituency . Swindon be lead by example when it come to make sure that child ' s play park be accessible to all , and hopefully we can make that a give across the whole country . one of the key point of the national disability strategy be that there would be an annual review , so that we could be hold to account on what we achieve and where we need to work hard . it would also allow we to set out the next range of ambitious target , co - ordinated by the Minister through the departmental disability champion . can I have assurance that , good as these proposal be , we will review they on an annual basis , as well as have a new , fresh set ? I also join the call to see my hon . Friend make a Minister of State , because if she be to co - ordinate effort across Government , in area beyond her direct influence , she need to have that gravita in that room , so that she can demand what be need to remove barrier for disabled people . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his experience and insight . I have meet the ministerial disability champion already to ensure : that disability inclusion be a priority and be ultimately deliver in their Departments ' work ; that they continue to be accountable for their contribution to the development and delivery of the national disability strategy and the disability action plan ; and that they continue to show their commitment to disabled people by create opportunity , protect their right and ensure action on everything that we have speak about today , in term of contribution to society . on make playground more accessible and my hon . friend ' s impeccable work in his constituency , there be a lot of information on disability inclusion in organise sport , physical activity and exercise , but information on make playground accessible be unfortunately not easily available . we want to make it available , work with the partner he mention and achieve good practice among local authority . that will be part of this plan , and we will measure its delivery in six month and 12 month . I have huge regard for the Minister , but I gently say to she that we must recognise the context of this disability action plan . between 2011 and 2020 , the equivalent of £ 20 billion be cut from working - age people , predominantly disabled people . individually , they lose thousand of pound every year , as my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) point out . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation ' s " UK Poverty 2024 " report identify that disabled people have be disproportionately impact by that , and be likely to suffer deep poverty and destitution . on the Government ' s commitment , I hope that the Minister can reassure I : it be approach two year since the Equality and Human Rights Commission find that the Department be discriminate against disabled people and issue a section 23 notice , and we still have hear nothing from the Department on that . could the Minister reassure we that it will publish something on that in the next few week , and certainly before the second anniversary of that notice ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point . I know that she have long be push for a response , and I will write to she further on that matter . as I say to the hon . member for Lewisham , Deptford ( Vicky Foxcroft ) , there have be substantial cost of live support , but I understand the point about disability cost that have be make today . again , I point people towards the household support fund , which be there for exactly those additional cost . in fact , we be do research and evaluation on where that support be go , and it be make a difference to people ' s daily life . I want those people to know that , beyond the cost of living payment , which start again tomorrow , further support be available through their local authority or from devolve money . I welcome the disability action plan . it follow the British Sign Language Act 2022 and the Down Syndrome Act 2022 , which have support 2 million more disabled people into work , as well as the cost of live disability payment , which begin tomorrow . I will be hold a disability forum in my home county of Rutland on 28 June , where I will bring together people live with disability , and their family and carer , so that we can create a plan for our county . will my hon . friend , who have bring such strength and passion to her role , share what support might be available to help roll out such action plan at a local level ? I thank my hon . friend for make that important point . something announce here in Westminster might sound great , but what do it mean in Rutland and beyond ? that be an important part of the next step . of course , we have support in our jobcentre , with further work coach support and disability employment adviser offer advice and expertise , and I have mention Access to work , Disability Confident and our future employment goal . if she send I an invite , I would be delighted to listen in on what her constituent and those advocate would like to hear and understand . I note that the Minister mention in her statement the aim to " promote well understanding across Government of the United Nations convention on the right of person with disability " , which be very welcome . how exactly will she do that with each Department , both in their role as employer of a large number of people around the country , and in the policy that they promote , such as disability benefit — include those relate to mental health — and the provision of housing for people with disability ? if she find that the Departments be not come up to the mark in achieve what she want of they , how will she ensure that they be force to carry out her policy , to ensure that there be real equality for people with disability in our society ? the right hon . Gentleman make an important point about cross - government work and deliver on the action plan . I stress to he and to those watch that the plan be one pillar of the work that we be do . we will , for example , work to increase disability - inclusive approach to emergency and resilience planning and climate adaption , through work strategically with team on that . we will always work with the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to ensure that disability inclusion be increase . as I have say , it be increasingly vital that ministerial champion deliver and be accountable in their Departments — that be what I will be do . it will mean that disabled people can benefit from everything that Government and community do , and can rightly contribute to every aspect of our society . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement . I be particularly pleased about the aim to " help our business of all size and sector to understand the need of , and deliver improvement for , disabled people " . one group of people who feel that they should be recognise in disability plan be those with advanced endometriosis . in a debate that I lead on endometriosis in the workplace , we hear that some of the issue that woman face at that advanced stage be really disability , but because they be not list as such , many woman lose their job owe to poor attendance through sick day and so on . I very much welcome the strategy , but will my hon . friend consider expand it to those woman ' s health issue that be totally disable ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . research show that disabled people be more likely to experience difficulty and barrier in access product and service , which result in a lack of confidence — whether that be on the high street , in go to work , or elsewhere . the consultation propose a voluntary accreditation scheme for business to train their staff in disability awareness . the benefit to business be absolutely clear : Purple say that the spending power of disabled household be £ 284 billion a year . as my right hon . friend know , I lead on woman ' s health and on the wide issue of keep woman in the workforce within the Department for Work and Pensions . the debilitate impact of the menopause and the wide impact of menstruation in the oil and gas sector , for example , be issue raise in Aberdeen just last week , which link into our woman ' s health strategy . this be the second time that endometriosis have be mention in the Chamber recently . I would be happy to meet my right hon . friend and other to discuss how we link it into our understanding . there be much to welcome in the plan , but there be also a few thing that be miss . one specific thing that the Minister have include in her 14 area for action be help business of all size and sector to understand the need of , and deliver improvement for , disabled people . one of my constituent come to I recently because , as a user of an electric wheelchair , she have find it almost impossible to know what business — specifically hotel — mean by " accessible " . it mean something different to every business : wheelchair user can find themselves go into a business and then be unable to move around . if they be in a hotel , they can get to their hotel room , but can not move around within that room . can the Minister tell we whether the Government be go to take action to set out exactly what be need if a business be go to use the term " accessible " ? I thank the hon . Lady for make that point , which also apply to business ' recruitment : they talk about recruit differently , and they want to do so , but then they regress . that tend to be due to a lack of understanding . the Disability Unit will work to well define what business need to do , build on the main issue raise in the consultation response . that work will also look at evidence gap ; at where exist scheme be already do thing and there may be duplication ; and , as the hon . Lady say and as I describe early , at where people think they be do the right thing but it do not match the reality of the experience for disabled people use a service or have a day out or a night away . that be part of the work cover by action 18 and 19 in the plan , and I would be delighted to hear from the hon . Lady what that mean to her constituent . I welcome the disability action plan . the Minister mention the cost of living ; I wonder what more could be do to speed up the transition to personal independence payment for those live on disability living allowance . one of my constituent have just wait over a year for that transition to take place . I welcome the fact that access to playground be in the action plan , but follow on from the question ask by my hon . friend the Member for North Swindon ( Justin Tomlinson ) and the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , what more can be do to ensure that these point be deliver , both at a local government level — perhaps by make it a statutory responsibility for local council to provide at least a minimum level of disability access for some play area and playground — and at a national level ? what cross - departmental committee or working be the Minister already involve with ? I thank my right hon . friend for make some really pertinent point . in regard to his point about playground , that be why there will be a portal and some good practice . some local authority be already deliver ; other will be able to learn from those intervention , so that family can enjoy play together in the way that everybody else would take for grant . that should be available in every community . my right hon . Friend also mention the wide structural change . I be happy to look at the specific case he raise . if he would kindly send I the detail , I would be very grateful . this plan be part of the wide national disability strategy , include change to the work capability assessment . the engagement I have have with disabled people and their organisation have make clear that there be some very vulnerable people who be very keen to be protect and support , and there be other group who be very keen to get the opportunity and chance they need . this Government be determined to get the approach right for everybody and every community . accord to the charity Sense , 85 % of people with complex disability be worried about the rise cost of living . the Minister ' s predecessor say that the disability action plan would outline the " immediate " action this Government would take to make the life of disabled people well , so why do the disability action plan do so little to address the cost of living crisis now ? I would point the hon . gentleman to the next stage of the cost of living payment , which start tomorrow , and again to the household support fund , which we see , evidentially , be support carer and those with disability at a really difficult time . we have ensure the energy price guarantee remain in place as an additional safety net until March this year . it will hold bill down , and I hope , as energy price fall , it will help low - pay worker or disabled people , as he describe . the Government be provide million of household with further cost of living payment , as I say , and there be a £ 104 billion package to support household until 2025 . I be engage with the other disability champion , the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Amanda Solloway ) , on this matter . that be wide than this specific plan , but the hon . Gentleman can be assure that we continue to engage on this matter . may I say llongyfarchiadau — congratulation — to the Minister on the launch of the disability action plan ? I visit Ysgol Llanfawr in Morawelon , Holyhead , where teacher Ceri Wyn Jones ' s year 6 class excitedly share with I how important playground be to they and their family , and they would love a splash park . can the Minister reassure student such as Phoebe Owen and Alecia Hughes that she will work with her devolve partner to ensure that playground across Ynys M ô n be make more accessible for everyone ? Diolch yn fawr — and iechyd da ! that be a fantastic opportunity for those local child to have a really inclusive and positive playground . this afternoon , I write to my counterpart in the Welsh Government to tell they about the plan , and to thank they for their engagement . we want to support action in all playground to make sure disabled child and their family have that sense of belong and that experience , and there be no great sense of belong than when it come to Ynys M ô n . we want to make sure that learning come from play , which be why , when that splash pad be be design , the portal and the good practice could make it more inclusive than anyone could have dream of before today . will the action plan address the specific issue raise by the excellent John Pring of the Disability News Service , which be the 14 - year pattern of the DWP dismiss the concern express by coroner over the death of disabled claimant ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for the point he make . of course , we in our Department deal with some very vulnerable people in very difficult situation , but this be a time of 30 - plus action and some change that be extremely positive . we have make sure that we have put safeguarding at the heart of what we do , and I will write to he specifically about that matter . the Botley Road in Oxford have be close for nearly a year , with another six month to go . while that be an inconvenience for resident , for our disabled resident it have be an absolute blight on their life . the one thing that be put in place for they have be reduce to just one hour in the day , and they have feel completely leave out , while some have not even leave their home . will this plan include provision for local resident affect by infrastructure project — in this case , run by Network Rail , which be make the decision — because I can not see where that be include in the plan ? if the hon . Lady send I the detail , I would be happy to have a look at the specific issue and that particular group . in this disability action plan , the Government truly believe that consider disabled people ' s need in policy making make for well and more inclusive outcome for everyone . that be why reach net zero by 2050 be engage in action 7 to 11 . there be also our work on clean air zone and ultra low emission zone , include make sure that disabled people ' s access need be fully balanced when create such scheme . when it come to access — whether it be about road closure , or rail — that be exactly what this plan be about , and I be keen to look at the detail she mention . a constituent of mine who have be hospitalise multiple time over the past 20 year as a result of a serious bipolar disorder be deem ineligible for PIP . he receive absolutely no help navigate the complex PIP process and have to go through a lengthy tribunal until he be finally deem eligible . how will this plan bring about any meaningful change when the Government have repeatedly fail to get to grip with the long - stand failure in the disability benefit system ? that sound like a very concern case . this action plan be part of a wide structural reform on health and disability . we know from our research that one in five people with a disability or health condition be not expect to engage in work preparation , but they might want to work . the hon . Lady ' s constituent be seemingly very vulnerable , and this be a difficult process to navigate . we have our help to claim service and other support for vulnerable claimant , and I be happy to look at this issue for the hon . Lady . the White Paper transformation include a new potential passporting to UC health element through PIP , but I be conscious that every PIP delay or PIP challenge involve a person and a situation and be very concerning , and I be make that a priority in this role . I want to follow up on the early question about accessible play area , which I be pleased be a part of the disability action plan . I do not think have a website will go far enough in deliver what we all want to see , which be far more accessible play area . there need to be a strategy back with resource underneath this website to deliver on the aspiration that we all share . the Minister will know that local authority be on their knee in term of funding , so will the Department put in any money to make sure that all our child be able to access play area ? Sport England be undertake work on good practice and that be precisely about open up that portal and make this a reality for youngster . we know that all child ' s wellbee be absolutely about their social activity and opportunity to learn through play , and this plan should not and will not be a talk shop result in no change . I will keenly make sure that this information on accessible playground make a difference , and that will be part of the report we do at six and 12 month . I thank the Minister for her statement ; it be most helpful . several of my disabled constituent have raise an issue that I be sure be replicate in every constituency across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and which be not clear in the action plan : help to insulate home to aid with energy cost for those who need health - relate upgrade or ongoing help with energy cost rather than a one - off bonus payment . what consideration have the Government give to the issue of warm home for our disabled constituent — something that they do not necessarily have ? I write to counterpart in Northern Ireland again today , as I do to all devolve group , and the hon . Gentleman be right about the challenge we have hear in the Chamber today , and I be happy to look at the extra support available for his community . as usual , he make a pertinent point about ensure that everybody have that warm home and that support . this be of course devolve in a slightly different way in his community , but I be happy to share the detail with he . the truth be that disabled people have be at the sharp end of this Government ' s cruel policy : their austerity and their attack on social security and public service . disabled people be also among the hard hit by the cost of living crisis , but this disability action plan fail to introduce the emergency measure demand by disabled people to directly address the crisis , never mind the decade of attack they have face ; isn ' t that the case ? I do not appreciate the characterisation — [ interruption . ] excuse I , the hon . Gentleman seem to be distract . as I be say , I do not understand his characterisation . there be 32 action over the next 12 month in 14 different area where we have listen and engage with disabled people . we have hear what they want , and those action be in parallel with our national disability strategy . his be exactly the kind of rhetoric — " the Government be against you and not support you " — that make disabled people feel more isolated and concerned for their welfare . I want to say squarely to people listen today that we have an absolute focus on what we can do to make sure that disabled people ' s daily life be well and that there be support and help there for they . this be one of the pillar of support that this Government be absolutely committed to . when he read the full plan , he will see that it will make disabled people ' s daily live well , and that be what this Government be determined to deliver . I thank the Minister and those on the Opposition Front Bench for their presence . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker , it be report today that the Prime Minister and Piers Morgan have make a bet — surely a contest in which it be a shame there have to be a winner — about the Government ' s ability to deport asylum seeker to Rwanda before a general election . can you confirm for the House , Mr Deputy Speaker , that a £ 1 , 000 direct pecuniary personal interest be one that should be register and declare with the House authority ? can you confirm that in accordance with the custom and practice of this House , the Prime Minister should be refer to it in any future contribution in relation to this matter ? I be not a bet man myself , but I suspect that if every Member of Parliament who place a bet on anything be require to enter it in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , the book might be rather full . the right hon . Gentleman will understand that that be a nice try , but not a matter for the Chair . Finance Bill ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question propose , that provision may be make for the electricity generator levy not to apply to new generating plant . — ( Nigel Huddleston . ) I call the SNP spokesperson . I rise to speak about the procedure be use here . this motion be very odd and worryingly symptomatic of a Government avoid their responsibility to this House , give that they could have table an amendment of the law resolution , which would have allow they to add their new clause to the debate today , without this unique use of Standing Orders . this resolution have prevent member from table any new clause or amendment relate to the subject , because there be no time between the end of the debate and the beginning of the next one to table any relevant motion , as I would have like to have do , for example , on the highland energy rebate for people live among generate equipment , both plan and exist . I sincerely hope that this unique use of Standing Orders do not become standard , as any future legislation base on a Ways and Means resolution can be unilaterally change with almost no notice and no opportunity for this House to table relate amendment . question put and agree to . Finance Bill Consideration of Bill , not amend in the Committee and the Public Bill Committee . [ relevant document : Nineteenth Report of the Treasury Committee of Session 2022 – 23 , Venture Capital , HC 134 , and the Government response , HC 1876 ; Sixteenth Report of the Treasury Committee of Session 2022 – 23 , Tax Simplification , HC 1425 ; oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on 29 November 2023 , on the Autumn Statement 2023 , HC 286 ; oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on the afternoon of 28 November 2023 , on the Autumn Statement 2023 , HC 286 ; oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on the morning of 28 November 2023 , on the Autumn Statement 2023 , HC 286 ; oral evidence take before the Treasury Committee on 18 November 2023 , on the Work of HMRC , HC 783 ; correspondence from the Chancellor of the Exchequer to the Treasury Committee , on the Autumn Statement 2023 , report to the House on 9 January 2024 ; correspondence from the Financial Secretary to the Treasury to the Treasury Committee , on tax simplification , report to the House on 13 December 2023 ; correspondence from the Financial Secretary to the Treasury to the Treasury Committee , on tax simplification , report to the House on 5 September 2023 . ] New Clause 5 - new investment exemption " ( 1 ) part 5 of F ( no . 2 ) a 2023 ( electricity generator levy ) be amend as follow . ( 2 ) in section 280 ( key concept ) , in subsection ( 1 ) , in the definition of " relevant " ( as in relevant generating station ) — ( a ) omit the " and " after paragraph ( a ) , and ( b ) after paragraph ( b ) insert " , and ( c ) to the extent it be not comprise of qualify new generating plant ( see section 311A ) ; " . ( 3 ) after section 311 insert — " 311A meaning of " qualify new generating plant " ( 1 ) generate plant be " qualify new generating plant " if it be new generate plant commission as part of a qualifying project that meet the new investment condition . ( 2 ) the new investment condition be meet in relation to a qualifying project if on 21 November 2023 it be reasonable to conclude , have regard to all of the circumstance , that there be a significant likelihood of the project not proceed . ( 3 ) the Treasury may by regulation provide for case in which qualifying project be to be treat as meet the new investment condition . ( 4 ) " qualifying project " mean a project to commission — ( a ) new generating plant for — ( i ) a new generating station , or ( ii ) an exist generating station which ( as a result of the project ) be to be wholly or substantially comprise of new generating plant , or ( b ) new generating plant that increase the generating capacity of an exist generating station . ( 5 ) subsection ( 6 ) apply where new generating plant that increase the generating capacity of an exist generating station replace exist generate plant . ( 6 ) only so much of the new generate plant as represent generating capacity in excess of the capacity of the generate plant it replace be to be regard as qualify new generating plant . " ( 4 ) in section 313 ( definition in this Part ) , in the table , at the appropriate place insert — " qualify new generating plant section 311A " . " — ( Nigel Huddleston . ) this new clause introduce an exemption from the Electricity Generator Levy for new generate plant in respect of which no substantive decision to proceed with the project have be make before the day of the Autumn Statement . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 1 — Review of effectiveness of section 31 measure in prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , conduct a review of the effectiveness of the provision of section 31 in prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money . ( 2 ) the review must evaluate the effectiveness of the provision of section 31 in prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money through comparison with the effectiveness of — ( a ) other measure that seek to prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money , and ( b ) the approach take in other country . " this new clause would require the Chancellor to review the effectiveness of measure in this Act to prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money , and to compare they with other measure that seek to prevent fraud involve taxpayer ' money and the approach take in other country . new clause 2 — Review of relief for research and development — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish a review of the implementation cost of the measure in section 2 incur by — ( a ) hmrc , and ( b ) business . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must include detail of the implementation cost of all measure relate to credit or relief for research and development that have be introduce since December 2019 . " this new clause would require the Chancellor to publish a review set out the total implementation cost of all change to research and development relief in the current Parliament . new clause 3 — Review of measure to tackle evasion and avoidance — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act be pass , publish a review of the measure in section 31 to 33 to tackle evasion and avoidance . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must include detail of — ( a ) the average sentence hand down in each of the last five year for the offence list in section 31 ; ( b ) the range of sentence hand down in each of the last five year for the offence list in section 31 ; ( c ) the number of stop notice issue in each of the last five year to which the measure in section 33 would apply ; an ( d ) the estimate impact on revenue collect in each of the next five financial year result from the introduction of the measure in section 31 to 33 . " this new clause would require the Chancellor to publish detail of the sentence give and stop notice issue in each of the last five year to tackle evasion and avoidance , as well as the revenue expect to be generate from the measure to tackle evasion and avoidance in this Act in each of the next five year . new clause 4 — Review of public health , inequality and poverty effect of Act — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must review the public health , inequality and poverty effect of the provision of this Act and lie a report of that review before the House of Commons within six month of the passing of this Act . ( 2 ) the review must consider — ( ( a ) the effect of the provision of this Act on the level of relative and absolute poverty across the UK include devolve nation and region , ( ( b ) the effect of the provision of this Act on socioeconomic inequality , and on population group with protect characteristic as define by the 2010 Equality Act , across the UK include devolve nation and region , ( ( c ) the effect of the provision of this Act on life expectancy and healthy life expectancy across the UK include devolve nation and region , and ( d ) the implication for the public finance of the public health and NHS effect of the provision of this Act . " new clause 6 — assessment of the impact of permanent full expensing — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of this Act be pass , publish an assessment of the impact of the measure in clause 1 of this Act on — ( a ) business investment , and ( b ) economic growth . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( ( a ) assess the impact of full expensing be make permanent , and ( b ) consider what other policy would support the effectiveness of the measure in clause 1 of this Act . " this new clause would require the Chancellor to publish an assessment of the impact on investment and growth of the measure in this Act to make full expensing permanent , and to consider what other policy could support the effectiveness of permanent full expensing . new clause 7 — Review of multiplier use to calculate high rate of air passenger duty — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , at the next fiscal event , publish a review of the multiplier use to calculate high rate of air passenger duty for each destination band . ( 2 ) this review must propose option for introduce a multipli to link the high rate and the reduce rate within the domestic band . ( 3 ) the Chancellor must , at the next fiscal event , make clear what change , if any , he will implement as a result of this review . " this new clause would require the Chancellor to publish a review of the multiplier use to calculate the high rate of air passenger duty , and to propose option for introduce a multipli to link the high rate and the reduce rate within the domestic band . government amendment 1 to 6 . the Government ' s aim be to grow the economy for the good of everyone , and our tax system be a key part of that . for household , high taxis mean less financial freedom and less choice in how they spend their money . for business , they can mean less growth and investment , and that mean few job for worker . that be why we need to grow our economy to create job and give ourselves the financial headroom to reduce taxis and remove the barrier to private sector investment . we must have a tax system that be supportive of business . at spring Budget 2023 , the Chancellor set out his approach for a highly competitive business tax regime . by announce generous tax incentive combine with a rate of corporation tax that remain the low in the G7 , the Government ensure that the UK be one of the good place in the world for business to grow and invest , but we should not be satisfied with simply be one of the good . this Bill therefore mark our next step in make the UK the good place in the world to do business . we be take huge , ambitious step to make that a reality in the autumn statement and in the Bill . for example , no other major economy have make full expensing permanent . that be a major step in encourage more investment by give a huge tax relief to those who invest . alongside that , we have introduce a generous new regime for research and development carry out by company . we be now go far to encourage even more investment by introduce new clause 5 , which will exempt receipt from new electricity generating project from the electricity generator levy . I will address each amendment in turn , look first at the detail of new clause 5 . the electricity generator levy be introduce follow the energy crisis to ensure that energy company with extraordinary return contribute more towards vital public service and support for household . however , we must balance that against ensure that the UK remain a brilliant place to invest in renewable . the new clause make change to the EGL that will exempt receipt from new electricity generating project from the levy . it will ensure that all generator in scope of the levy will benefit from the exemption if they choose to proceed with investment in new generation capacity and make a substantive decision to go ahead with a project on or after 22 November 2023 — the date of the autumn statement . that will help support continue investment in the UK ' s renewable generation capacity by remove new investment from the tax and provide business with the confidence to make such new investment . I turn to Government amendment 1 to 3 . to ensure that the research and development tax relief clause in the Bill work as intend , the Government be propose technical amendment to the R & D clause . the Bill introduce a new enhance support for R & d - intensive small and medium - sized enterprise , such as those in our vital life science sector . from April 2024 , the R & D intensity threshold will be reduce from 40 % to 30 % . amendment 1 and 2 make change to ensure that R & d - intensive company get the relief as intend . amendment 1 remove two situation where a company would appear less r & d - intensive than it actually be . these issue be raise with we by an industry stakeholder , for which I be grateful . to avoid abuse and to protect the scheme for genuinely R & d - intensive company , the ratio be work out at a group level . currently in the legislation , company within group that charge each other for service could have cost double count and therefore reduce their r & D intensity . the amendment will fix that . the Government do not want to exclude company from relief because of legitimate commercial arrangement that do not affect the underlie true r & D intensity of the business . on top of provide more support for R & d - intensive company , the Bill will simplify and improve our r & D relief by merge the R & D sme scheme with the R & D expenditure credit . to ensure that those clause work as intend , the Government propose technical amendment to the R & D clause . company and accountant want the merged scheme to be implement on an accountancy period basis as that make claim simple and delay the merged scheme for the majority of current R & D expenditure credit claimant . it therefore give they a bit more time to prepare . the new rule for contract - out R & D will ensure that the company make the decision to do the R & D and bear the risk be the one that get the relief . however , that mean that , as currently draft , there could be temporary situation when two company be in a contractual relationship and one move into the new R & D tax credit system ahead of the other . for a limited period of time , that could result in situation where both party could claim on the same r & D or neither could claim , as be raise by stakeholder . amendment 3 ensure that the legislation work as intend . for temporary double claim , the R & D credit will go to the claimant in the old system until both have start new accounting period . to avoid a temporary gap where no company can claim , the legislation will be amend to ensure that subcontractor can claim where their customer be still in the old system . I want to clarify the definition of " contract out R & D " , as some stakeholder have be concern that the legislation allow a company to claim for a contract as R & D if it merely think that R & D will take place . that be not the case . the word " contemplating " have be deliberately use because , in legal term , it mean that the company will know that specific action be be consider , plan and require for the R & D to take place , rather than just generally think that it will take place . the Government will publish update guidance for comment this week , to help company understand the new rule . the Bill have a package of groundbreake reform to relief for the creative industry . amendment 4 to 6 ensure that claim for the creative industry ' tax relief be submit with the require information to effectively administer the relief , while remove a potential disadvantage for company . the Government be legislate in the Bill to introduce an additional information requirement for claim to the creative relief . company will have to provide additional information to support their claim , which will help protect the relief from fraud and error . as the legislation be currently draft , a claim be invalid if the require information be not provide . where that information relate to connect party transaction , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs can not verify that it be complete and correct at the point the claim be submit . if it be discover at a later date that require information relate to connect party transaction be omit , that would lead to the whole claim be treat as invalid and no relief be grant . a company may then be out of time to resubmit its claim . to prevent company from be disadvantaged in this way , the amendment fix the additional information requirement to allow HMRC to specify the consequence of failure to provide information in regulation . that will ensure that entire claim be not automatically invalidate in case where the claimant company have not provide HMRC with all the information relate to its connected party transaction within the time limit . I have outline the case for each of the Government amendment , and I therefore urge the House to accept they . in speak to new clause 6 , which relate to permanent full expensing , I remind the House of the context in which this Finance Bill be publish . it follow the Chancellor ' s statement on 22 November last year , in which he claim that he be deliver an " autumn statement for growth " . member will remember , however , that the same day , the Office for Budget Responsibility confirm that growth forecast have be cut by more than half for the come year , cut again for the year after that , and cut yet again for the year after that . independent analyst confirm that even after all the change that the Government have announce , personal taxis would still rise . they be set to rise by £ 1 , 200 per household by 2028 - 29 , with the tax burden on track to be the high since the second world war . that be the context in which this Bill be publish : flatline wage , high taxis , high mortgage payment and worsen public service — all the product of 14 year of conservative economic failure . our country need change . a critical part of make that change will be to get our country ' s growth rate up . we need a plan for growth , to make people across Britain well off , and to ensure sustainable funding for our public service . labour have be develop our plan for growth by work hand in hand with business across the country and across the economy . we know how highly business that be consider invest in the UK rate stability , predictability and a long - term plan . for that reason , we welcome the fact that , as our new clause 6 highlight , the Bill make full expensing permanent . permanent full expensing be something we have long call for , as a policy that can support great business investment and economic growth . because Labour know how important stability and predictability be to business , the shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) , announce last week that Labour be committed to maintain permanent full expensing in the UK tax system , as well as the annual investment allowance , if we win the next general election . the shadow Chancellor have make this commitment to offer business certainty for the year ahead . business consider plant and machinery investment across Britain can be confident that the tax treatment of that investment would not change with a Labour Government . of course , there be still a general election to face , so I use this opportunity to invite the Minister to put on the record whether the Conservatives will follow our lead by confirm that should they win the general election , they will maintain permanent full expensing . I be sure many business would welcome the certainty that would come from know both the main party be go into the election fully commit to keep permanent full expensing . I urge the Minister , when he respond , to confirm whether that will be his party ' s policy go into the general election . after all the chopping and change we have see in capital allowance in recent year , the Minister need to make the commitment explicit . as I mention during early stage of the Bill , the annual investment allowance have be temporarily raise to £ 1 million when this Parliament begin ; that temporary basis be extend by the Finance Act 2021 , again by the Finance Act 2022 , and then make permanent by the Finance ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 . meanwhile , over the course of this Parliament , the super - deduction come and go . last year , full expensing for expenditure on plant and machinery be introduce on a temporary basis for three year . in this Bill , the Government be finally make it permanent . after so much instability , a commitment from Treasury Ministers at the Dispatch Box that the Conservatives , like Labour , will commit to maintain permanent full expensing feel like the least they can do . our new clause 6 would require the Chancellor to publish not only an assessment of the impact of permanent full expensing , but a consideration of what other policy would support its effectiveness . we believe this be important to ensure that business investment be support as much as possible . the opposition have begin to set out what some of our policy would be if we win the next general election . as the shadow Chancellor have set out , if we be in government , we would consider the outcome of technical consultation on whether lease asset can be include in full expensing and on simplify the UK ' s capital allowance regime . I would be grateful if the Minister update we on the progress of those consultation . last week , the shadow Chancellor also make clear the commitment that if Labour win the next general election , we will ask HMRC to produce simple and comprehensive guidance make clear which asset be eligible for each type of capital allowance . that guidance would give business clarity over how their investment will be treat , and business will be able to use it as a single point of reference when make investment decision . will the Minister confirm whether the Government have consider take such step , or make such a commitment ? to give further certainty , the Shadow Chancellor have also say that in government , Labour would explore the great use of ruling and clearance . under such an approach , business would be able to get a write ruling from HMRC about the tax treatment of potential investment , make clear , for instance , whether they qualify for full expensing or other capital allowance . we know that business benefit from other country ' tax administrator be able to provide such ruling and clearance . as certainty be crucial to encourage investment in Britain , I would be grateful if the Minister confirm whether the Treasury have ask HMRC to consider the great use of ruling and clearance for investment , and , if so , what its conclusion have be . of course , any policy on expense or other capital allowance sit under the headline rate of corporation tax . it be hard to conclude anything other than that the conservative party be rather unclear and confused about its approach to corporation tax rate in the UK . for evidence of that , we need look no far than the current Chancellor : in July 2022 , during his leadership bid , he pledge to cut the headline rate of corporation tax from 19 % to 15 % , yet when he become Chancellor just three month later , one of his first act be to promise to raise the tax instead from 19 % to 25 % . it be no wonder that business , and indeed conservative Back Benchers , find it so hard to understand the Conservatives ' policy on corporation tax rate . let I be clear about the certainty we would offer if we win the next general election . as the shadow Chancellor have set out , we believe the current rate of 25 % strike the right balance between what our public finance need and , as the low rate in the G7 , keep our corporation tax competitive in the global economy . that be why we be pledge to cap the headline rate of corporation tax at its current rate of 25 % for the whole of the next Parliament . we would take action if tax change in other advanced economy threaten to undermine UK competitiveness . that choice provide predictability and have a clear rationale . that be the pro - business choice and the pro - growth choice . the promise to cap corporation tax at 25 % be clear from we . again , to offer business as much certainty as possible , will the Conservatives follow our lead and also pledge , today , to cap corporation tax at 25 % for the next Parliament ? these commitment — to cap corporation tax , to maintain permanent full expensing and to keep the annual investment allowance — will all form part of the road map that we would publish in the first six month of a Labour Government , set out our tax plan for business for the whole of that Parliament . that would put stability , predictability and a long - term plan at the heart of our approach . to give business as much certainty as possible , I would be grateful if the Minister confirm whether a corporation tax cap at 25 % and keep full expensing in place will be in the conservative party manifesto too . I be interested in what the shadow Minister be say about what would happen if other country change their corporation tax . as he will know , Mr Trump , the former President , have say that he would cut US corporation tax , potentially from 21 % to 15 % . give such example , do the hon . Gentleman anticipate that a Labour Government would look to cut the headline rate of corporation tax , as we would be look at a significant tax cut by the world ' s large economy ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . as we have make clear , we would take action if tax change in other advanced economy threaten to undermine UK competitiveness , but the headline commitment from we be to cap corporation tax at 25 % for the duration of the next Parliament . I recall that in early consideration in this debate , he and I have an exchange about permanent full expensing , so I hope he will welcome our commitment to maintain permanent full expensing if we be in government . perhaps he will put pressure on his Front - Bench colleague to join we today in make that a cross - party commitment from the House . new clause 7 focus on the multiplier use to calculate high rate of air passenger duty . as we have discuss at early stage of the consideration of this Bill , clause 24 make no change to band a rate , while in band b , the reduced , standard and high rate will increase by £ 1 , £ 3 and £ 7 respectively . in band c , the reduced , standard and high rate will rise by £ 1 , £ 2 and £ 6 respectively . in each of those three band , which cover international travel to a range of destination , a simple principle be follow : if the duty for passenger on economy flight go up , the duty for those fly business class and by private jet go up too . in the domestic band , however , which cover flight within the UK , that simple principle of fairness do not apply . instead , under the Bill , for domestic UK flight , the reduced rate of APD rise by 50p and the standard rate rise by £ 1 , yet the high rate be unchanged . let I be clear what this mean in plain English : from 1 April , passenger fly economy and business class within the UK will see their taxis rise , whereas passenger take exactly the same flight by private jet will enjoy a tax freeze . although the change kick in on 1 April , this be no April fool ’ day joke , although the Prime Minister may be laugh ; it be the result of a hidden loophole that that the Conservatives have introduce . we discuss this matter in Committee , when the Exchequer Secretary try to provide an explanation for this unfairness . he say that APD rate be " uprate by a forecast of RPI and those rate be then round to the near pound . " as for the different rate I highlight in Committee , he say : " it largely depend on how they " — the rate — be rounded to the near pound ; the actual rate be determine by whether the figure be round down or up . " – – [ Official Report , Finance Public Bill Committee , 16 January 2024 ; c . 34 - 35 . ] I know that the Exchequer Secretary always try to give I a straight answer — let I put it on the record that I genuinely appreciate his effort to do so — but I fear that his explanation in Committee may have be unintentionally misleading or , at the very least , only partial . since that Committee stage , the House of Commons Library have give I information confirm that it do not tell the full picture to say that the duty rate be , as the Minister claim , " uprate by a forecast of RPI and those rate be then round to the near pound . " – – [ Official Report , Finance Public Bill Committee , 16 January 2024 ; c . 34 . ] in fact , my understanding be that the Minister ' s statement apply only to the reduce rate of air passenger duty . those be indeed adjust each year in line with forecast rpi and round to the near pound . however , the standard and high rate be not calculate by separate reference to RPI ; rather , they be generally set as multiplier of their respective reduce rate . for instance , the standard and high rate in band b be set as 2 . 2 and 6 . 6 time the band b reduce rate respectively , round in both case to the near pound . the use of multiplier within band would at least mean that if the reduce rate go up in any particular band , the high rate should go up too , and there would be a sense of fairness to the system . the problem be that that be not the case , because there be a loophole that apply to the rate in the domestic band . the loophole mean that the high rate in the domestic band be not link by way of a multipli to the reduce rate in that band , but rather be link to the reduce rate in band A , and be equal to the high rate in that band . I realise that some of these calculation be complex , and the terminology run the risk of be confuse , so again let I be clear about what this mean in plain english . for international flight , when the rate of duty for economy class passenger go up , the rate of duty for private jet passenger go up too . if that have be true for domestic flight , then this year the rate of duty for private jet passenger would be go up , follow the rise in the economy rate . however , the loophole mean that this link do not exist , so this year duty be go up for passenger fly economy class within the UK , and be freeze for those fly by private jet . our new clause 7 would require the Government to consider and respond to option for close that loophole . it would require the Government to review the multiplier use to calculate air passenger duty rate , and to consider option for introduce a multipli to link the high and reduce rate within the domestic band . take that course of action would close the domestic flight loophole that will see private jet passenger benefit from a tax freeze this year , while everyone else fly economy and business class see a tax rise . I very much hope that the Government will accept both our new clause . they will ensure that minister consider the loophole in air passenger duty that have give private jet passenger a tax freeze while everyone else be pay more , and consider what else be need to make permanent full expensing as effective as possible . we believe that the Government must do all that they can to provide a stable and predictable environment that encourage business investment and boost economic growth . during this debate I have set out our approach to provide that stability and predictability , include our commitment to cap corporation tax at 25 % for the whole of the next Parliament , if we win the general election , and to maintain permanent full expensing . in the interest of give business as much certainty as possible , I urge the Minister to say whether the Conservatives will join we by go into the general election with both those commitment from his party too . I have declare my business interest in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I rise to support the Government ' s new clause 5 . I think it be good that they be consider what more they can do to promote investment in the United Kingdom ' s generating capacity . we import far too much power already , especially when the sun do not shine and the wind do not blow , and on the basis of the Government ' s ambitious forecast and target for much more of our energy to be deliver by electricity , I think that the position will get a lot bad quite quickly . anything that the Government can do to encourage that additional investment in generate plant will be very welcome . we will , of course , need a similar positive approach to grid and cable , because the more we electrify , the more we will need to convey that power from the rather remote location where much of it come from to the part of the country that will need it . so my only worry about new clause 5 be that I be not sure it go far enough . I think it be helpful in this limited number of case , but I trust that the Chancellor , when it come to the Budget — quite soon , on 6 March — will consider that the new clause be just a stepping stone and that we need to review again the very large tax imposition on energy of all kind in this country . we now have double corporation tax in many case and a range of windfall taxis that be often not really windfall taxis because they do not come off when the price go down , although they be put on when the price be go up . that whole area need considerable review , because we need to take seriously the fact that we be short of energy overall . we be short of electricity generating capacity and short of the mean to route power from generation to use , and it would be an important stimulus for the british economy if we produce more of our own energy and generate more of our own electricity , and if we be think about have a surplus to export again instead of all too often be cruelly reliant upon import of liquid natural gas and electricity , particularly from the continent . I would also like briefly to refer to new clause 4 and 6 . they be wide - range new clause that invite the Government to make assessment or review of feature of this legislation , but they also wish to broaden it out to get the Government to review the impact of their general fiscal strategy on equality , on investment , on the state of the corporate sector and on inequality in our society . I be quite sure that the Government will be review all those thing as a matter of course , as this be often a continuous process . indeed , many of the item cover in this request for special review be already report on and form part of the normal process of policy preparation , and rightly so . if the Minister be to tell I that he would be grateful if I do not vote for these new clause , I would have no problem with that — I be not sure that it would help to embody they in the legislation anyway ; I think it would be a bit of an abuse of the legislation — but the Government need to respond to the general thirst for knowledge that these new clause represent , and to understand that there be some serious issue here that need to be return to . I trust that the Chancellor will return to they at the Budget . look at the fiscal impact that these new clause cover , I trust that in the preparation of the Budget we will have analysis in the Treasury of these particular measure , which be still go through from the last time , but I also hope that the Government will review the extraordinary loss of the Bank of England — I think that they have already run up to £ 34 billion in the current financial year . these be loss that the Treasury , and therefore the taxpayer , have to pay as they be incur , and that be completely unacceptable . it impose strain on the public account and on the Treasury at a time when we really do not need they and when we need that money for other purpose . there be two simple measure that the Bank could take to stem the magnitude of those loss . first , it should not be sell bond at a big loss in the market . the European Central Bank be not do this , although it have a similar problem with a portfolio of very expensively acquire bond . there be also the issue of the run loss on these holding where the Bank of England be pay the full , much enhanced , short - term interest rate follow its increase in it . this now greatly exceed the revenue on the bond because the Bank pay far too much for the bond and there be a very low rate of interest on they . those run loss be a problem . I think the Bank should look at what the European Central Bank be do , in pay different interest rate on reserve hold under this system so that it do not have such a large run loss . can my right hon . friend tell I if I have get this right ? in the commentary ahead of the Budget , we talk about wiggle room and the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast and about £ 5 billion or £ 10 billion here and there , but I think I hear he say that this matter be completely out of the control of the those on the Treasury Bench and this Parliament ; that the Governor of the Bank of England could unilaterally decide to crystallise loss on whichever extent of bond he wish to , and then put that loss into the calculation of the Chancellor of the day ; and that the Chancellor would then have to work around that in order to work out what the fiscal expenditure , public expenditure and taxation would be . be that actually the case ? it sound mightily undemocratic to I . that be an interesting point of debate , but my understanding of the constitutional position be that it be not as bad as my hon . friend be suggest because all the bond be acquire with the express permission of the then Chancellor of the Exchequer . the Bank of England ' s website say that the bond portfolio be hold on behalf of the Treasury . successive Chancellors of the Exchequer — begin with the Labour Chancellor who first undertake quantitative easing and carry on by successive Conservative Chancellors — all sign an agreement with the Bank to say that they would indemnify against loss . so , give that the Government and this Parliament empower the purchase of the bond and now take responsibility for any loss on they , it seem perfectly reasonable for there to be a proper conversation about whether we want to take the loss . I see nothing wrong with we here challenge the idea that , uniquely among the big quantitative easing programme , it be the Bank of England that not only insist on sell the bond at big loss but get reimburse . the ECB do not sell they in the market at big loss . the Federal Reserve Board sell they in the market at big loss but get no money back ; it simply put on its balance sheet that it have lose a lot of money and take the view that , as it be a central bank , it do not really matter if it lose a lot of money , because central bank create money and it be therefore not like a normal commercial business . so I hope that Ministers will look at this as part of the general assessment that be be invite by these new clause . I hope also that Ministers will look at the expenditure item in the overall account cover by new clause 4 on the public finance , because there have be a marked decline in public sector productivity in the year 2020 to 2023 . it be quite without precedent in my experience of follow public finance over the year , and this very sharp decline represent at least a £ 30 billion loss to our system , in that it now cost at least £ 30 billion a year more to run the group of public service cover by these figure than it do before the collapse in productivity . on top of that , there have also be the need for much big sum to cover inflation . this be not the inflation figure ; this be the real loss figure from the productivity . we be all sympathetic to the difficulty that lockdown and the transition out of lockdown cause , and there be bind to be disruption . our public service be badly affect by that , as child could not go to school and hospital be disrupt by covid , but that be now some time behind we and it seem perplex that we can not get those public service back to 2019 level of productivity . I hear comment that maybe artificial intelligence will do it and that there need to be a big investment in computer . well , that should be on top . all that I be say to the Government be that we can surely get back to 2019 productivity level use technique from 2019 , which be very much pre - artificial intelligence and before the late round of computerisation . again , this be a big area that need to be look at as part of any review of the public finance . the third area , which be also very large and very much in the news today , be that even more people in our country do not feel they can go back to work and that they need help at home because they be no long able to work . the Government be work on some important programme , through the Department for Work and Pensions , to show people that through a combination of part - time flexible working and work at home with proper support and training , and maybe with additional financial support to help they , they could go back to work for part of the time and make a contribution . we desperately need they , and I think their life would be more rewarding . they would also be well off because we now have a benefit system that mean it be always well to work . this should be a cross - party matter , because it be a problem that our nation as a whole face . we can enrich those people ' s life , help to reduce the burden on the taxpayer and improve the net income of those concern . again , this involve many billion . my point in make these three simple point apparent to the House be that there be very large sum of money indeed involve in bond loss and productivity , which we need to review because that would help in the formation of the next Budget . it would create more headroom , both for the tax cut that we need if we be to promote growth , and for improved public service provision in the area where the shoe be still pinch . I trust that will be part of any review that might emerge from these new clause , or from the spirit of these new clause . I hope that my right hon . friend the Chancellor be think about this , as we will have a Budget hard on the heel of this Finance Bill , which come out of the autumn statement . in these condition of recovery , and give the need for fast growth , I welcome have more than one Budget a year , and the fact that we may have three fiscal event quite close to each other , if all go well . they must promote growth and reduce taxis , and this be a good start . I welcome new clause 5 , but can we please have more ? can we please look at the headroom that I think I have help to identify ? I call the SNP spokesperson . I be sure that the people suffer through the rampant cost of live crisis across the nation of the UK hope that if the Government table a new clause today , it would address their struggle in pay their rent , their ever - increase mortgage , their high food bill , thank to Brexit , and their even high energy bill after the cap be adjust in January . the Government table only new clause 5 and , as I say on the Ways and Means motion , we have no opportunity to amend it . the electricity generator levy disproportionately impact Scotland ' s renewable sector . the SNP welcome the fact that new clause 5 will exempt new renewable project from the EGL , but as note by the chief executive of Scottish Renewables , though the autumn statement introduce new measure such as the EGL exemption , they be " not enough on their own . we urgently need consistent policy to provide an environment which will enable business to invest at the scale need right now . " a pledge to invest £ 28 billion a year in the green energy transition might be a good thing , but it seem to be off the table not only for the UK Government but — Order . I wish to make a short statement . I know the whole House will wish to join I in express our sympathy with his Majesty the King follow this evening ' s announcement . our thought be , of course , with his Majesty and his family , and we all send he our very good wish for his successful treatment and speedy recovery . thank you , Mr Speaker . obviously , it be entirely appropriate to have pause for that statement . I be unaware of the news bring to the Chamber , but it be clearly significant . our thought be with the royal family at this time . as I be say , we need consistent policy to help the renewable sector , and we be not see that either from the Tory Government , who have run out of idea , or from the Labour party , which make promise and then duck responsibility for what be require . we would have like new clause 5 to flesh out the Chancellor ' s promise , make in the autumn statement , to take up to £ 1 , 000 a year for up to 10 year off the electricity bill of people live near new generation equipment . we have not hear that today , so we do not know what scheme be come up . as I intimate early , I would have like to table an amendment on this point : if new clause 5 be applicable to people live next to new generation equipment , what about those who already live among generation equipment in , for example , the highland and island ? we have the cold climate in the UK . Most people be off the gas grid , so we have high average bill than the rest of the UK . we pay the high standing charge for electricity , 40 % more than here in London , and because of UK Government policy , we have the high level of fuel poverty in the UK , yet we export six time more electricity than we use in the highland . it would have be entirely appropriate for the Minister to agree to introduce a highland energy rebate , to put some of that contribution back into the pocket of people across the highland and island who be struggle because of those condition . the hon . Gentleman be make a very good point that ring true in my constituency , too . of course , the problem be make more difficult still because of the other cost face by people live in our constituency , such as delivery charge and the cost of other service . even a tube of toothpaste can cost a little more the far away it be from the big urban centre . that make the problem a lot bad . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right , and I welcome his support for the campaign I be try to start in order to get justice for people across the highland and island . he mention other cost ; of course , rural property be often large and less insulated . that do not mean that people in those property have more money ; it just mean that their property be build that way , century or decade ago . that bring high cost . many of the factor affect people across the highland and island could be mitigate by a highland energy rebate . new clause 4 , table by the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , would require the Chancellor to review the public health , inequality and poverty effect of the Bill , and to publish a report within six month of the Bill be pass . it be regrettable that it look as if the new clause will not be press to a Division tonight , but the SNP would have support it . we believe that a requirement to consider the implication for equality , poverty and health should be include in every Bill for which that would be relevant . as I say , people be suffer from a cost of live crisis fuel by decision make in this Parliament . mortgage be go up as a direct result of the disastrous mini - Budget , and now food cost be go up . of course , there be more to come , as the Brexit regulation kick in at the end of April . not only be price go up , but they will rise even high from May as business across the UK face more red tape . of course , we be already see our high energy bill ever . meanwhile , we be do what we can with our limited power in Scotland . we already have low council tax and , of course , we be introduce a council tax freeze . a poll out today show that nearly 70 % of the public approve of this policy . new clause 6 would require the Chancellor to publish an assessment of the Bill ' s impact on investment and growth and of the impact of make full expensing permanent , and to consider what other policy could support the effectiveness of permanent full expensing . give that full expensing be expect to cost £ 1 billion to £ 3 billion a year , after an initial £ 10 billion a year for the first three year , the policy deserve some scrutiny . since full expensing be announce in the autumn statement , the SNP have support its be make permanent , as this would give business great certainty and would simplify the tax system . however , it be vital that member be fully inform , so that this Parliament can assess the effectiveness of this policy and whether it encourage investment in asset such as plant and machinery , as it be design to do , or whether that be at the expense of other form of investment . full expensing be a rare point in the autumn statement on which we agree , but as I have say time and again , the Bill have fail . People be struggle through a cost of living crisis , and they want to know what help they will get now , while they be struggle because their household expense be go through the roof . People want investment in clean energy , and a just transition from oil and gas . we will need oil and gas for a period , but that transition should be safeguard . the United States be provide hundred of billion of dollar in initial support for new green technology , such as hydrogen . the European Union have make similar high - level investment , yet the UK Government and the Labour party be dawdle on the issue , waste the opportunity for we to lead across the world . like so many Bills , this Bill ignore the need of the people of Scotland , so it be little wonder that they be on the inevitable path to independence . order . may I take this opportunity to associate myself with Mr Speaker ' s remark ? I be sure that all our thought be with King Charles and the royal family this evening . I associate myself with your remark , Mr Deputy Speaker , and those of the Speaker , and I wish his Majesty a speedy recovery . it be interesting to take part in such a debate . it be disappointing to hear Labour describe itself as the pro - business party , give that it be ask business to increase wage , recognise union , accept collective bargaining and restrict labour flexibility , as well as increase bureaucracy and tell business where to invest . to I , that be a wolf in sheep ' s clothing . turn to the Bill and the amendment , it be extraordinary to hear the spokespeople on both Opposition Front Benches talk about expense become permanent . that be exactly what the Bill intend to do ; the minute we get Royal Assent , expensing will be permanent . on Second Reading , the Minister say it would be permanent and , as soon as the Bill be enact , that will be in place and on the statute book , which be welcome . amendment 1 and 2 make point about full expensing . those amendment will ensure that the UK ' s plant and machinery capital allowance will increase and there will be a tax cut of about £ 10 billion a year , which will help to drive up growth across the whole United Kingdom , specifically in our manufacturing sector . from the point of view of those in south Devon , that tax cut be worth have . it will help to drive growth and attract investment and innovation across the country , not just in the industrial heartland we speak about so often . there be often international comparison make on research and development . amendment 3 offer we the opportunity to drive innovation and economic growth . merge the research and development expenditure credit scheme and the small and medium enterprise research and development relief scheme achieve that rare thing that we so often fail to do in Government : simplify the tax code and provide great support for UK firm . we should all welcome that . it be worth state the impact of the change in the Bill that will support loss - make small and medium - sized enterprise by reduce the intensity threshold by 10 % , from 40 % to 30 % . that be expect to help 5 , 000 further sme , and they will receive £ 27 per £ 100 of qualify research and development funding invest . that be an extraordinary amount of support — in the region of £ 280 million a year by 2028 - 29 — and it will be welcome by small business across the country . the Bill also extend the sunset clause until April 2035 for two more programme — the enterprise investment scheme and the venture capital trust — which be welcome . clause 4 and 5 outline support for the creative sector . one of our unsung success story be how well the UK creative industry have do because of this Government ' s extraordinary tax cut , which have help tv , film , music and video game thrive in this country . between 2010 and 2019 , that industry have grow by an extraordinary one and a half time , create thousand of job across the country and attract million — if not billion — of pound of investment and spur on growth . that set the benchmark . as a government , we need to help all industry , not just the creative industry , by reduce the tax burden and ensure we can find way to support they . I make a plug for the tourism and hospitality sector , which the Minister know I often mention . in the future , I hope we will be able to do the same for the tourism and hospitality sector as we have do for the creative industry through a vat reduction . I support the Government amendment to the Bill . I welcome the intent of this Finance Bill , which be help to ensure that work pay , ensure that the tax burden for business be go down , and create a landscape that will attract the investment and opportunity that we so desperately need in this country . on behalf of myself and my liberal Democrat colleague , I express our sympathy to the King and his family , and our hope that his treatment will prove to be successful . I will speak to amendment 1 , 2 and 3 , in addition to new clause 5 . to reiterate , the Liberal Democrats be not supportive of the Bill , which be a deception from the Government after year of cruel tax hike on hard - work family . the legislation maintain the Government ' s unfair tax rise on work family through the freezing of income tax threshold , fail to invest properly in our public service , such as the NHS , and take none of the vital step need to grow the UK economy . some of the measure in the Bill have worthy aim , but the context be important from the outset . amendment 1 , 2 and 3 make further change to the new R & D regime define in the Bill . while the change may be necessary and sensible clarification , just last week , colleague in the other place , sit on the Economic Affairs Committee , report their concern " that the number of significant R & D change make in the last 5 year have lead to a perception of instability in the UK ' s R & D tax relief regime and undermine the intend incentive effect of the relief . " what business need more than anything be certainty and stability . the Government ' s chop and change on R & D be indicative of a wide failure to create a stable and settle environment in which business can flourish . perhaps the clear example of that have be the scrapping of the UK ' s industrial strategy and the disbanding of the independent body oversee it . this short - sight step have rob business of the stability they need to grow . the constant change to the R & D relief regime be a clear example of how that lack of foresight and stability can undermine the aim of economic growth . once again , I urge the Government , even at this late stage , to relaunch an industrial strategy . a proper industrial strategy can create the condition for sustainable growth , include through effective and clear incentive for R & D investment , especially among sme , and ensure that the UK ' s regulatory , R & D and tax framework be gear towards foster innovation . new clause 5 introduce an exemption to the energy generator levy for new plant investment . the Liberal Democrats believe that , although this may help to strengthen investment in renewable energy and contribute towards our net zero target , the Government ' s own assessment of the measure note that it be unlikely to affect the retail price of electricity for household as energy price remain tie to gas price . the Bill , and the autumn statement from which it arise , do nothing to help family with soar energy price or to put a proper windfall tax on the oil and gas giant . the Government continue to sit on their hand as business and family struggle with energy price inflation . a windfall tax on the super - profit of oil and gas producer could raise significant revenue which could have pay for a target package of support for those worst affect by the energy crisis , by double the warm home discount and invest in an emergency home insulation scheme . it remain clear that November ' s autumn statement and the Finance Bill both represent a miss opportunity to address the crisis in energy price . to conclude , while the Liberal Democrats be supportive of certain measure within the Bill , such as the extension of full expensing , we can not support any legislation that arise from such a deceptive and unjust autumn statement . ultimately , british household be see the big fall in living standard since the 1950 , and household across the country be cry out for real support from the Government , for action on the cost of live crisis and investment in our NHS , but all we have hear be more stale announcement from a Conservative Government who be completely out of touch . I concur with the comment make by other about King Charles , on my behalf and that of the Democratic Unionist party and his loyal subject in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland — especially Northern Ireland . I pray , as I know you do , Mr Deputy Speaker , as well as other in the Chamber , for King Charles and for the royal family . I pray for a speedy recovery to his health . I pray , as we all pray , to the great healer , omnipotent over all , that his family will know the peace of the Lord as they support he at this time . I thank all those who have contribute to this Bill debate , and I thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for give I the chance to participate . understandably , much of the Bill focus on the measure that be need to deliver the autumn statement . the Minister understand that — I would like to welcome he to his place . as he know , I hold he in great respect , and look forward to his response at the end of this debate . for every public sector pay rise that be rightly award , money must be raise , and therefore we all support the principle of this Bill in theory . however , in practice , not many of we want to sign off on a Bill that raise taxis for those who be struggle at present . obviously , as price have rise , obligation have go up correspondingly . Northern Ireland have be seek a complete removal of the air passenger duty as a way of enhance our connectivity and our attractiveness to international business investment . as a result , the rise in APD be disappointing . I know what the Minister ' s response will be . we be all aware of what the renewal of Stormont mean : it mean that we can look at this matter ourselves . none the less , the renewal of the Assembly have also highlight the issue of the allocation of finance . it be clear that an overhaul of the funding formula for Northern Ireland be necessary to meet the need in the long term . before I leave the office this morning , I hear the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland on the radio say that he hope that a new funding formula would be find for Northern Ireland . we on the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee have also put forward that view . it be matter that involve all party . the hon . member for Belfast South ( Claire Hanna ) and for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) join we in want the same . that be three of the political party in Northern Ireland that want that formula . there be also labour member who support the view , along with a number of Conservatives with some concern . we be all push for a formula similar to the Welsh system . if that come into place , we in Northern Ireland would benefit , and that be only fair and right . I be highlight this because if we as a party wish to do something about air passenger duty in the Northern Ireland Assembly , or if a cross - party group be wish to do the same , we would need to have that formula in place . as I say , we be look for fair funding for the future . the £ 3 . 3 billion that have be make available now be money that many of my constituent believe have be withhold , and that be welcome . ever mindful of the positivity that come out of the debate last week , I say let we be positive in look forward — order . the hon . Gentleman understand that he have catch my eye and I have catch his . may I gently remind he that we be talk about the Government ' s new clause and amendment at the moment ? there be a Third Reading debate ahead in which more measure can be raise if necessary , but , at the moment , will he please concentrate on the matter in hand ? I know when I see you look at I , Mr Deputy Speaker , that you be go to tell I to get back on to the subject . I be about to do so . I thank you for that very kind reminder . you speak to I in a very nice way , which be much appreciated . I do refer to new clause 7 and air passenger duty , so I will quickly return to that . when I look at a number of these issue address in the Bill , I could see a very clear and obvious theme : air passenger duty to rise in line with the retail price index ; plastic packaging to rise in line with the consumer price index ; aggregate levy in line with rpi ; tobacco levy in line with RPI plus 2 % ; and vehicle excise duty for car , van and motor bike in line with RPI . so it continue and , to be honest , that seem to be understandable . however , what be clear in the Finance Bill be that , although these thing rise by RPI or CPI — I understand how the system work — the Government have again choose to ignore the need of the work middle class . I wish to make this point . I have do so in every finance debate , Mr Deputy Speaker . I have take every opportunity I can to bring up this matter . I be seek the support of the Minister on this . indeed , I have ask the Minister about this on a number of occasion , so he know about the issue . it be about the middle - class family who need that extra bit of help . they be pay their tax , but the £ 40 , 000 and £ 50 , 000 a year threshold be not helpful . if we wish to address the issue of new clause 6 in relation to permanent full expensing and the issue of air passenger duty — the thing that people want — then we also have to address the issue of the threshold as well . I gently say to the Minister that , when it come to how we help our squeeze middle class — I be not talk about the very wealthy — can he look at change the threshold ? I ask the Minister for a direct response on that . I do not want he to talk about the high income benefit charge or any other mitigation . I just want he to help we understand why those who pay into the tax system do not get as much as they should when they be struggle in a way that familie back in 2013 could not have imagine . the Government know that to be the case — I think the Minister know it to be the case — so when it come to legislation that help we to represent all of the people of this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , let this Bill tonight be one that do just that . I call the Minister . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . may I join you , Mr Speaker and the whole House in wish his Majesty a speedy recovery follow the announcement this evening ? I wish to thank right hon . and hon . member for contribute to this debate . I shall respond to as many of the point as I can , and also talk to the amendment that have be move . on new clause 1 , I agree that we must prevent fraud and ensure that all taxpayer pay their fair share . to help achieve that , the new maximum sentence for the most egregious example of tax fraud , the new criminal offence on the promoter of tax avoidance , and enhance director disqualification power will come into force on Royal Assent of this Bill . that will all help . at 4 . 8 % of total liability , the UK ' s tax gap be at the joint low rate ever record and have remain low and stable . the UK ' s tax gap compare favourably with that of our international partner . HMRC have already publish performance update that provide information on its compliance performance every quarter , so we believe that this new clause be not necessary . new clause 2 be pretty much the same as the new clause 1 reject in Committee of the whole House . as I have say previously , we believe that the provision be unnecessary , as the information have be publish in the tax information and impact note alongside each policy change . that give a clear explanation of the policy objective together with detail of the implementation cost for both HMRC and business . new clause 3 would require the Government to publish detail of sentence give and stop notice issue to tackle evasion and avoidance in the past five year , as well as revenue expect to be generate by measure in this Bill to tackle evasion and avoidance in each of the next five year . however , HMRC publish information on the number of custodial sentence receive for tax compliance offence and the average sentence length in its annual report and account . the 2023 - 24 annual report and account will be publish this summer , provide a full overview of hmrc ' s performance . the Government also publish a list of tax avoidance scheme subject to a stop notice on gov . uk , with the most recent report publish on 7 December . HMRC have issue more than 20 stop notice since issue the first one in 2022 . the Government also publish revenue estimate for the next five year of the clause in this Bill in the tax information and impact note . therefore , as the information request by new clause 3 be publicly available in routine HMRC publication , the publication request by new clause 3 be unnecessary . new clause 4 would require the Government to report on the likely impact of the measure in the Bill on public health , inequality and poverty — matter that concern we all and that we discuss in Committee . exist mechanism already effectively monitor and assess Government policy in those area , render the amendment redundant . department such as the Department of Health and Social Care and its arm ' s length body diligently evaluate policy to enhance health up and down the country . through the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities and the National Institute for Health and Care Research , they address health inequality and provide robust evidence for policy development . various Government unit , such as the Cabinet Office equality hub , contribute to levelling - up opportunity and ensure fairness . the Government Equalities Office , the Race Disparity Unit , the Disability Unit and the Social Mobility Commission all focus on different equality dimension to guide and support inclusive policy development across the country . we therefore do not believe that new clause 4 be necessary . on new clause 6 , I agree that it be important to regularly review and evaluate policy , and to be transparent , which my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) also highlight . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have publish a tax information and impact note set out the impact of the measure , include the economic impact , and the Office for Budget Responsibility have already conduct and publish extensive analysis on the investment and growth impact of full expensing . that be available in its " economic and fiscal outlook — November 2023 " , which therefore negate the need to publish a separate assessment in six month ' time . the impact of permanent full expensing will be monitor through information collect from tax return , and through regular communication with business and representative body . new clause 7 would require the publication of a review of the multiplier use to calculate the high rate of air passenger duty that apply to large private jet . I appreciate that there be some challenge in understand they , but I assure the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) that there be no attempt to mislead or give inaccurate information to the House . the table be available , and I will provide he with one . the Government review the rate of taxis and relief , include APD , annually to ensure that they be appropriate and reflect the current state of the economy . as have be the usual practice since APD be introduce in 1994 , rate be announce over 12 month in advance to provide airline with sufficient notice . some of the challenge with the calculation , and the point about round to the pound , have arise because in April 2023 we cut APD on domestic flight by 50 % , but not the rate for private jet , which therefore remain equal to that on short - haul international flight . the Bill provide for the uprating of APD rate by forecast RPI in 2024 - 25 , round to the near pound , and then of course there be the multiplier . some of this be the sheer mathematic of ensure that we do not have disparity . current APD rate ensure that passenger in private jet pay significantly more tax than passenger on commercial flight . for example , in 2024 - 25 , the high rate for domestic private jet passenger will be more than 10 time the economy rate . since the Government keep all rate , include all APD rate , under regular review , new clause 7 be unnecessary . I note the appeal of the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , which I have hear before . the Minister know that I be particularly fond of he , but if he have hear my request before , let we now have action . we always try to act ; I can not do everything , though . I note the hon . Gentleman ' s comment . in a similar vein , my hon . friend the Member for Totnes ( Anthony Mangnall ) raise the importance more broadly of the tourism , hospitality and leisure sector , and of the creative sector . he be absolutely right . measure in the Bill and elsewhere will support all those sector . of course , business rate relief be vital to the tourism , retail , hospitality and leisure sector . my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham make a range of comment , some outside of my direct remit . I assure he that I will raise his point , which range from bond to public sector efficiency — a vital area — with colleague in the Department . I be somewhat entertain by the comment of the Labour spokesman , the hon . member for Ealing North , who be effectively ask I to commit to conservative party policy as enthusiastically as he do , which be quite a turn up for the book . of course , we welcome labour ' s support for the policy that we have announce , but there be clear blue water between the Labour party and the conservative party in term of principle about the size and scale of Government and the level of taxation . we have see Labour ' s flip - flop over the £ 28 billion . I be not sure what the policy be today . it be rather rich of he to ask for commitment from I , give the flip - flopping that be so prevalent in every area of labour policy . at one point , the Labour party be supportive of Brexit . now I do not know . be Labour Members against it ? be they supportive of the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) be Prime Minister , or do they not want he in the party ? be they in favour of nationalisation , or against it ? be they in favour of private sector involvement in the NHS , or against it ? in a whole host of policy area , we have see persistent , perennial flip - flopping from the Opposition . I literally have goldfish whose commitment I would trust more than those from the Labour Front Bench . on those point , we will have to respectfully agree to disagree . as I say , new clause 5 and the six amendment that the Government have table will help to ensure that the change in the Bill apply as intend , and deliver a vital policy to protect renewable investment . they will make the tax environment more easily understand by business and protect vital tax revenue use to fund our public service . I therefore urge that they be add to the Bill . the six new clause table by the opposition seek to get the Government to publish datum and information that be already be publish through other source , as I have outline . I therefore urge the House to reject they . question put and agree to . new clause 5 accordingly read a second time , and add to the Bill . New Clause 6 - assessment of the impact of permanent full expensing " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of this Act be pass , publish an assessment of the impact of the measure in clause 1 of this Act on — ( a ) business investment , and ( b ) economic growth . ( 2 ) the review under subsection ( 1 ) must — ( a ) assess the impact of full expensing be make permanent , and ( b ) consider what other policy would support the effectiveness of the measure in clause 1 of this Act . " — ( James Murray . ) this new clause would require the Chancellor to publish an assessment of the impact on investment and growth of the measure in this Act to make full expensing permanent , and to consider what other policy could support the effectiveness of permanent full expensing . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Clive Lewis David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Steve Reed Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Kim Leadbeater Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Andrew Mitchell Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew Selous Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Gary Streeter Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Gagan Mohindra Suzanne Webb the House divide : Ayes 185 , Noes 285 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 7 - Review of multiplier use to calculate high rate of air passenger duty " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , at the next fiscal event , publish a review of the multiplier use to calculate high rate of air passenger duty for each destination band . ( 2 ) this review must propose option for introduce a multipli to link the high rate and the reduce rate within the domestic band . ( 3 ) the Chancellor must , at the next fiscal event , make clear what change , if any , he will implement as a result of this review . " — ( James Murray . ) this new clause would require the Chancellor to publish a review of the multiplier use to calculate the high rate of air passenger duty , and to propose option for introduce a multipli to link the high rate and the reduce rate within the domestic band . bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Fleur Anderson Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Clive Betts Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Paul Blomfield Steven Bonnar Ben Bradshaw Kevin Brennan Deidre Brock Alan Brown Nick Brown Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Alan Campbell Dan Carden Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas John Cryer Judith Cummins Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Edward Davey Wayne David Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Anneliese Dodds Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Jonathan Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Tim Farron Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Louise Haigh Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Helen Hayes John Healey Mark Hendrick Drew Hendry Meg Hillier Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Stewart Hosie George Howarth Rupa Huq Imran Hussain Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Stephen Kinnock Ben Lake Ian Lavery Clive Lewis David Linden Rebecca Long - Bailey Holly Lynch Kenny MacAskill Justin Madders Khalid Mahmood Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell John McNally Steve McCabe Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Navendu Mishra Carol Monaghan Layla Moran Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Ian Murray James Murray Lisa Nandy Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Steve Reed Marie Rimmer Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Michael Shanks Virendra Sharma Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter Nick Smith Karin Smyth Alex Sobel Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Jamie Stone Alistair Strathern Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Karl Turner Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Claudia Webbe Andrew Western Matt Western Alan Whitehead Philippa Whitford Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Kim Leadbeater Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson James Cleverly Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Kevin Foster Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Andrew Mitchell Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Grant Shapps Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Julian Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Gary Streeter Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Gagan Mohindra Suzanne Webb the House divide : Ayes 182 , Noes 289 . question accordingly negative . schedule 1 - research and development Amendments make : 1 , page 42 , line 12 , at end insert — " ( 5a ) but — ( a ) expenditure of a company be to be ignore for the purpose of subsection ( 5 ) if it consist of a payment , or other transfer of value , to another company with which the company be connect , and ( b ) where expenditure form part of a company ' s total relevant expenditure by virtue of subsection ( 5 ) ( c ) , a deduction bring into account as mention in subsection ( 5 ) ( a ) be to be ignore for the purpose of that provision to the extent that a corresponding deduction for corporation tax purpose be prevent by section 1308 ( 5 ) . " this amendment deal with two case in which double - counting might otherwise arise in calculate a company ' s , or an aggregate of connected company ' , total expenditure for the purpose of determine whether the R & D intensity threshold be meet . amendment 2 , page 42 , line 16 , after " period , " insert " or would do but for subsection ( 5A ) ( a ) , " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 3 , page 63 , line 26 , at end insert — " avoidance of overlap and gap in entitlement during transition 17a ( 1 ) sub - paragraph ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) apply if , but for those sub - paragraph — ( a ) one company ( " company a " ) would be entitle to old R & D relief , and ( b ) another company ( " company B " ) would be entitle to new R & D relief , in respect of expenditure attributable to the same research and development . ( 2 ) if company B would have be entitle to old R & D relief in respect of its expenditure have the Part 1 amendment not be make , only company b be entitle to the relief . ( 3 ) in any other case , only company A be entitle to the relief . ( 4 ) sub - paragraph ( 5 ) apply if — ( a ) a company incur pre - commencement expenditure , ( b ) the company be not entitle to old R & D relief in respect of the expenditure , and ( c ) have the expenditure be post - commencement expenditure , it would have be — ( i ) qualify chapter 1A expenditure by virtue of section 1042E of CTA 2009 or section 1042F of that Act as it refer to section 1042E , or ( ii ) qualify chapter 2 expenditure by virtue of section 1053 of CTA 2009 ( as it have effect after the Part 1 amendment ) or section 1053A of that Act as it refer to section 1053 . ( 5 ) the company be to be treat as satisfy section 1042F ( 4 ) and 1053A ( 4 ) of CTA 2009 for the purpose of ascertain the entitlement of another company to new R & D relief in respect of expenditure attributable to the same research and development as the expenditure mention in sub - paragraph ( 4 ) . ( 6 ) sub - paragraph ( 7 ) apply if — ( a ) in respect of pre - commencement expenditure attributable to research and development , one company ( " company c " ) — ( i ) be not entitle to old R & D relief , but ( ii ) would be so entitled if none of section 104C ( 2 ) , 104 g ( 5 ) , 104h ( 6 ) , 104j ( 4 ) , 104 k ( 5 ) , 104l ( 4 ) , 1052 ( 5 ) and 1053 ( 4 ) of CTA 2009 ( as they have effect before the Part 1 amendment ) apply , and ( b ) in respect of post - commencement expenditure attributable to the same research and development , another company ( " company d " ) would , have the expenditure be pre - commencement expenditure , have be entitle to old R & D relief by virtue of section 1053 of CTA 2009 ( as it have effect before the Part 1 amendment ) . ( 7 ) for the purpose of ascertain the entitlement of company d to new R & D relief , the research and development be to be treat as contract out by company d within the meaning of section 1133 of CTA 2009 ( as it have effect after the Part 1 amendment ) . ( 8 ) in this paragraph — " the new R & D provision " mean Part 13 of CTA 2009 as it have effect after the Part 1 amendment ; " new R & D relief " mean relief under the new R & D provision ; " the old R & D provision " mean chapter 6a of Part 3 or Part 13 of CTA 2009 as that chapter or Part have effect before the Part 1 amendment ; " old R & D relief " mean relief under the old R & D provision ; " the Part 1 amendment " mean the amendment make by Part 1 of this schedule ; " post - commencement expenditure " mean expenditure incur in an accounting period begin on or after the appoint day ; " pre - commencement expenditure " mean expenditure incur in an accounting period begin before the appoint day . " — ( Nigel Huddleston . ) this amendment ensure that one , but only one , company can claim relief in certain transitional situation where more than one company be involve in the same r & D but not both or not all of they have become subject to the change make by Part 1 of Schedule 1 . schedule 6 - Administration of creative sector relief Amendments make : 4 , page 138 , leave out line 15 to 20 . this amendment and Amendments 5 and 6 allow regulation impose information requirement for creative sector relief to provide for consequence of non - compliance short of the total invalidity of the claim ( for instance , by make a claim invalid only so far as it relate to certain item of expenditure ) . amendment 5 , page 138 , line 25 , after " which " insert " , and the time by which , " . see the explanatory statement for Amendment 4 . amendment 6 , page 138 , line 26 , at end insert — " ( c ) the consequence of fail to provide the information as require ( which may include the total or partial invalidity of the claim or a reduction of the claim relief ) . " — ( Nigel Huddleston . ) see the explanatory statement for Amendment 4 . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . this government be back british business , support employment , and create a simple and fair tax system . my right hon . friend the Chancellor deliver an autumn statement with the clear intention of strengthen the economy , now and for the future . this Finance Bill , which member of the House have have the opportunity to scrutinise and debate over the past few month , do exactly that . it take forward important tax measure to help business invest for less ; encourage innovation and support our creative industry by elevate rate and simplify credit ; and improve and simplify our tax system to ensure it remain fit for purpose . Mr Deputy Speaker , allow I to remind member of the Bill ' s key aim . our first aim be to support british industry , so that we can solidify our position as world leader in key sector . make full expense permanent allow UK business to invest for less . we have move to make the UK ' s plant and machinery capital allowance the most generous of any major economy . permanent full expensing have be call the single most transformational thing we could do for investment , and it be welcome by more than 200 company and trade association . the Bill also merge two significant government scheme : the SME scheme and the R & D expenditure scheme . in do that , we be meet our aim of simplify the system while provide great support to british business , so that they can spend less time on administration and more time on innovation . the Bill also introduce great support for loss - make R & d - intensive sme and lower the intensity threshold require to access that support to 30 % , help around 5 , 000 extra sme . to far support investment in renewable energy , we have introduce a new asset exemption for the electricity generator levy , a measure that will continue to drive growth in both our renewable sector and the wide economy . we also continue to support our world - lead creative industry with tax measure that reform the film , tv and video game tax relief , turn they into refundable expenditure credit that be easy for business . our second aim be to support employment . we must remove barrier to work and incentive to not work , and most of all , must ensure that hard work and expertise be reward . that be why the Bill make change to encourage people to stay in work and use their expertise for long . the Bill will complete the abolition of the lifetime allowance , amend pension tax rule so that employee with valuable , hard - earn expertise be no long encourage to reduce their hour or retire early . the Office for Budget Responsibility estimate that this will retain 15 , 000 worker annually , keep many high - skilled employee and experienced individual in our labour market while ensure that they receive their rightful benefit for work . our third aim be to create a simple , fair and more modern tax system — an aim that the Bill also support . make full expensing permanent be a huge simplification for large firm , but we be a nation of million of small business . in the Bill , we be expand the cash basis — a simplified way for over 4 million small and grow trader to calculate their profit and pay their income tax . while we remain focused on reduce the tax burden , we can not overstate the role of tax in support public service , so we must all do our part . everyone must pay their fair share , which be why the Bill introduce a new criminal offence for those who promote tax avoidance scheme and continue to promote they after receive a stop notice . alongside this , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs will for the first time be able to bring disqualification action against the director of company involve in promote tax avoidance , include those who control or exercise influence over a company . these be vital step in ensure that the system be fair for all , and that those who try to undermine it face the consequence . I thank right hon . and hon . member from across the House for their helpful and insightful contribution to the debate on the Bill . I also thank the many stakeholder who have provide their view on the issue raise , the Treasury , HMRC official and House Clerks who have help the Bill to get to this point . this Bill back british business , reward hard work , nurture innovation , and support our lead industry while solidify long - term economic growth . for those reason , I commend it to the House . I begin by wish his Majesty the King the very good for a speedy recovery . my colleague and I be think of he and the royal family at this time , and we wish he a swift return to full health . throughout consideration of the Bill , the Opposition have make it clear that it contain a number of measure for which we have be call for some time . for instance , we welcome the Government finally make full expensing permanent after so many year of chop and change capital allowance ; we have make it clear that we will maintain that policy if we win power this year . we have also make it clear that we will maintain the system of R & D tax credit introduce by the Bill — again , after so many year of this Government chop and change the design of the scheme . in both case , that be because we prize stability and predictability for business ; they have make it clear to we that they value that greatly . we know that provide certainty be a critical factor in boost business investment and economic growth . if Labour win the next general election , we would put that certainty and stability at the heart of our approach in government by publish a road map in the first six month , set out our business tax plan for the whole Parliament . we have set out our approach to full expensing and to corporation tax , so I be disappointed that the Minister be not able to give we a clear guarantee that the Conservatives will maintain full permanent expensing and cap corporation tax at 25 % for the whole of the next Parliament . business can have confidence , however , that both of those commitment be lock in with Labour . of course , there be provision in the Bill of which we have be critical , not least the fact that it freeze tax for passenger fly around the UK on private jet , while hike taxis for everyone else who be fly economy or business class . also , the Government admit that some provision will need to be return to and correct . that be a far from ideal position to be in before a Bill have even become law . we know this be the case because , towards the end of last month , HMRC admit that the way in which the Government have legislate to remove the lifetime allowance have " create unintended consequence for member with multiple pension scheme " . HMRC say that further legislation will be necessary to fix three area in schedule 9 relate to the abolition of the lifetime allowance . that clearly indicate rush legislation that run the risk of create problem for all involve . the legal firm Wedlake Bell , for instance , have say : " the propose new tax regime replace the LTA at breakneck speed from 6 April 2024 be very risky for all party include trustee , administrator , member and indeed HMRC itself . " more widely , our concern with this Bill , as with the autumn statement it follow , be that the Conservatives can not hide or move on from their 14 year of economic failure . those 14 year of failure have leave economic growth languish and people across Britain bad off . last November ' s autumn statement for growth be the 11th attempt at an economic growth plan from the Conservatives . the truth be that the Conservatives be incapable of get our country back on track . we need a general election so that Labour can offer the change and the plan that family and business across Britain need . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . I will not detain the House for long , because I have the feeling that not all my colleague be here to listen to my remark . however , I want to make a couple of point . first , have hear the opposition complain about the measure in this Finance Bill , one would think that they do not like they , but they be not here this evening , they be not vote against Third Reading , and they have not table any solid proposal themselves . the only economic policy anyone have hear from the opposition be the extra £ 28 billion that they want to impose in taxis on our business and our family . do my hon . friend agree that it be almost as though the opposition do not have a plan ? I would agree with my hon . friend . I point out that the 110 pro - growth , pro - supply side measure in this Finance Bill have not stoke inflation . indeed , inflation have fall from over 11 % down to 4 % , and accord to the Bank of England ' s forecast , it be on track to reach 2 % , so one have to commend the measure take in this Bill , and I look forward to vote for that progress shortly . I add my thank to the official from the Treasury and HMRC who have work so hard on this legislation , only to hear that in a month ' s time there will be another Budget and another Finance Bill . one have to recognise the hard work that have go into this Bill , but I do worry that HMRC be be ask to do more and more . I worry about the fact that various threshold have be freeze , and in particular , as the Minister know , that the high - income child benefit charge be affect more taxpayer up and down the land . I be worried about one of the 110 measure — one that be within HMRC ' s bailiwick . it be the measure allow people to put fractional share into their individual saving account . that be a very welcome announcement in last year ' s autumn statement . I try to put down an amendment to the Bill about it , but it be find not to be orderly because that change have not be legislate for this time around . in fact , the word be that HMRC will not be able to put that in place until at least the next tax year . can I ask the Financial Secretary to convey the sense of urgency that I think we all feel about make these pro - growth , pro - investment change ? there be a wide range of measure in this Finance Bill that I welcome , and I look forward to the Budget on 6 March . I think we can pay tribute to all the hard work that the Financial Secretary , his team , and all the Treasury and HMRC official have put into this excellent piece of legislation . I call the SNP spokesperson . in this Third Reading debate on the Finance Bill , one thing have be conspicuously absent from both the Tory and the Labour Front Benchers ' speech — the one thing affect people most just now : their struggle with the cost of living crisis . People be struggle to pay their bill . they be struggle to pay their mortgage , which have go up because of this Government ' s disastrous mini - Budget . they be struggle to pay their rent . they be struggle to pay their food bill because of these party ' disastrous Brexit , which be push food price inflation even higher . they be struggle to pay their energy bill , because this Government have be asleep at the wheel while price have be rise , and even allow the energy price cap to go up in January when bill have never be high . this be a travesty of a Finance Bill . it have do nothing to help the people of Scotland with their finance , it have do nothing to help people across the rest of the UK , and I will definitely vote against it tonight . may I ask colleague in all part of the House for some indulgence ? unfortunately , I be miss out on Report , but I very much want to speak about new clause 4 , which I table . it be very close to my heart , and it be the reason why I become an MP . specifically , it be about ask the Government to make an assessment of the public health effect of the Bill , particularly in term of regional inequality , the impact on protect characteristic and the impact on the NHS . I would first like to associate myself with the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) about his Majesty King Charles . I wish he a very speedy recovery , and send good wish to his family . I have hope that I might convince the Minister just a little more than I do in Committee about what a difference the assessment in my new clause would make . I be go to extend the argument just a little more , if he will bear with I . I appreciate that I can not do anything about the issue in this Bill , but perhaps he could think about it for the one we will have after the Budget , because I will be return to this issue again . the proposal be not about change anything in the Finance Bill ; it be about publish the Government ' s evaluation of the impact of their policy , as announce in the autumn statement , on the health of our constituent as mediate through , for example , change in poverty and socioeconomic inequality . ideally , that would have be do during the planning of the autumn statement , but give that that do not happen , my new clause would have provide the opportunity to make decision base on an evaluation of the impact on our health , include our child ' s health . many member will have hear about and read the report of the Academy of Medical Sciences on child health , which come out early today . in it , the UK have be reveal to have a stall infant mortality rate , which be bad than 60 % of that in similar country . this be after a century during which infant mortality have be decrease . the academy have put to we , as decision maker , that we need to be do a lot well . my new clause would have help the Government in their quest for transparency , fulfil the Prime Minister ' s promise on that , and restore confidence in the Government and in politic more widely . it would also have allow the Government to monitor their commitment to level up our health across the country and to tackle the appalling north - south divide . I be director of public health research at the University of Liverpool along with Professor Dame Margaret Whitehead , who in 1987 publish her report reveal for the first time the north - south health divide . it come out a few year after the black report and it show the causal relationship between poverty and health . Margaret take it a step far , emphasise socioeconomic inequality , not just poverty , as the key driver of these health inequality . we have be build on that evidence base for the past 40 year or so . many will have read " the Spirit Level " by Professors Richard Wilkinson and Kate Pickett which show the universal relationship between socioeconomic inequality and educational attainment , social mobility , trust between community — where have trust go within our community ? — reduce crime and much more . the narrow the gap in socioeconomic inequality , the well almost all society across the world do on a whole host of measure include health and wellbeing . Professor Sir Michael Marmot ' s 2010 totemic " Fair Society , healthy live " report set out six objective across our life course of what we as a country need to do to address these socioeconomic inequality and reduce health inequality . he warn we in 2017 when we start to see life expectancy in England as a whole flatlining , which be accompany by decline healthy life expectancy . we hear many question in today ' s Department for Work and Pensions oral about what we can do to get a fit and healthy labour force , and our inequality be partly why we be in our current position . Professor Marmot also reveal that life expectancy for the poor woman and in the poor area be decline , and that we be one of three advanced economy in the world where this have be happen , along with the USA and Iceland . this be not a question of our have reach peak life expectancy ; we be fall behind most of our competitor . he also reveal that health inequality have increase and that there be an even starker north - south health divide . then covid hit . the same pattern of infection , ill health and death be see with covid as be see before the pandemic with other condition . the same group of people and the same area be affect by covid as be affect by , for example , heart disease . last month Michael provide another update in his late report , " Health Inequalities , live Cut Short " . he say in the BMJ a couple of week ago something that I ask the Prime Minister about last week : " if everyone have the good health of the least deprive 10 % of the population , there would have be 1 million few death in England in the period 2012 to 2019 . of these , 148 , 000 can be link to austerity . in 2020 , the first year of the covid pandemic , there be a further 28 , 000 excess death . " today , I see no evidence that policymaker have learn from or even understand this injustice , or its economic consequence . I urge they to watch a short film , " the Unequal Pandemic " , which show the human cost of this inaction . our experience of covid and these inequality be not inevitable . today ' s Academy of Medical Sciences report estimate that a cost of £ 16 . 13 billion a year could have be avoid by early childhood intervention . the relationship between population health and productivity be also well establish . in its 2018 " Health for Wealth " report , the Northern Health Science Alliance argue that in order to improve our productivity and growth we must improve our health . it calculate that improve the health of the north to the level of the rest of England would increase productivity by £ 13 . 2 billion a year . it be in the economy ' s and the Chancellor ' s interest to undertake this health assessment of his measure . I appreciate that that be not go to happen in this Bill , but I would be grateful if the Minister would consider it for the next one . I be grateful in the Finance Bill Committee for the Minister respond with a long list of datum that the Government already collect on poverty , and so on . unfortunately , he do not explain how these datum be then analyse to assess the impact of his Government ' s measure on , for instance , strict social security sanction , and how those would affect the current level of child live in poverty , deep poverty and destitution , as describe in the Joseph Rowntree Foundation " UK Poverty 2024 " report . he do not explain if these datum have be disaggregate to examine the impact of these policy on different part of the country , on disabled people or on people from ethnic minority community , and he do not explain what scenario - modelling on poverty , deep poverty and destitution have be undertake to understand whether more child will die before their first birthday because they have be bear into a poor or destitute family . for each 1 % increase in child poverty , an extra 5 . 8 baby per 100 , 000 livebirth will die before their first birthday . Professor Sir Michael Marmot have ask we to provide hope — hope that we as politician can recognise and understand that these inequality must be address and that they be not inevitable , and I agree . I urge the Minister to really consider this , if not now , then in the next Finance Bill , and to come back with a set of proposal on how the Government be go to do it . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Richard Bacon Kemi Badenoch Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Simon Baynes Aaron Bell Paul Beresford Jake Berry Bob Blackman Peter Bottomley Andrew Bowie Ben Bradley Graham Brady Suella Braverman Andrew Bridgen Steve Brine Paul Bristow Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Alex Burghart Conor Burns Rob Butler Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Gregory Campbell Andy Carter Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Jonathan Djanogly Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond James Duddridge David Duguid Philip Dunne Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Tobias Ellwood Natalie Elphicke Luke Evans Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Richard Graham Helen Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Stephen Hammond Greg Hands Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald James Heappey Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Sajid Javid Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Andrea Jenkyns Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Marcus Jones Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Edward Leigh Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Chris Loder Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Julie Marson Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Damien Moore Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Priti Patel Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Andrew Percy Chris Philp Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Rob Roberts Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Andrew selous Jim Shannon Alok Sharma Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Chloe Smith Greg Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Bob Stewart Gary Streeter Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Maggie Throup Edward Timpson Justin Tomlinson Michael Tomlinson Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Steve Tuckwell Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Theresa Villiers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Helen Whately Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood William Wragg Jacob Young Gagan Mohindra Suzanne Webb Hannah Bardell Ian Blackford Kirsty Blackman Deidre Brock Alan Brown Amy Callaghan Wendy Chamberlain Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Angela Crawley Martyn Day Dave Doogan Allan Dorans Sarah Dyke Jonathan Edwards Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Patricia Gibson Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Stewart Hosie Christine Jardine David Linden Kenny MacAskill John McNally Stuart McDonald Anne McLaughlin Carol Monaghan Layla Moran John Nicolson Brendan O ' Hara Kirsten Oswald Chris Stephens Alison Thewliss Owen Thompson Richard Thomson Philippa Whitford Pete Wishart Peter Grant Steven Bonnar the House divide : Ayes 283 , Noes 39 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Local Government that the draft Combined Authorities ( Mayoral Elections ) Order 2017 ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 11 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Local Government that the draft Combined Authorities ( Mayors ) filling of Vacancies Order 2017 ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 11 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Animals that the draft Animal Welfare ( Primate Licences ) ( England ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 14 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Robert Largan . ) question agree to . business of the HOUSE ( 7 FEBRUARY ) order , that at the sitting on Wednesday 7 February , notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 16 ( proceeding under an Act or on European Union document ) , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on ( 1 ) the Motion in the name of Secretary James Cleverly relate to Police Grant Report not later ( 2 ) than three hour after the commencement of proceeding on that Motion , and the Motions in the name of Secretary Michael Gove relate to local Government Finance nolater than three hour after the commencement of proceeding on the first such Motion or six hour after the commencement of proceeding relate to Police Grant Report , whichever be the later ; proceeding on those motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) Tri - service safety officer : Devon and Cornwall Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Robert Largan . ) before I begin , if I may , I will place on the record a few comment follow the announcement from the palace regard the health of King Charles . I be sure that I speak for everyone in send my good wish to he for successful treatment and a speedy recovery . of course , his Majesty , as our long ever serve Duke of Cornwall , have a special place in the heart of those of we from Cornwall . I know he still take a keen interest and have a lot of affection for the Duchy , so on behalf of the people of Cornwall , I say that our thought and prayer be with he and his family at this time . I be delighted once again to be able to speak in an Adjournment debate about something that Cornwall be lead the way on : our excellent tri - service safety officer . as far as I be aware , Devon and Cornwall be the only police force area that have these officer in place , fund and commission in the particular way we do it . let I begin by quickly explain what a tri - service officer be . these officer , as the name suggest , work across the three service of the police , fire and NHS . they be police community support officer , on - call fireman attach to a local fire station and NHS first - responder . they be jointly fund by Devon and Cornwall police , Cornwall Council ' s fire service and the local NHS , with some funding come from the South Western Ambulance Service NHS Foundation Trust and some through the integrate care system . tri - service safety officer be embed in local rural and coastal community and can be a presence on the ground for all three service , not only provide quick emergency response when need but carry out preventive , wellbeing and information gathering visit . a TSSO ' s main duty be wide - range and complex . they include respond to 999 call for fire and rescue and ambulance service , deal with non - immediate police log and community safety matter , complete multi - agency home and welfare visit , resolve complex neighbourhood policing issue , work with the local antisocial behaviour team , support the neighbourhood police team , and assist with neighbourhood inquiry such as non - emergency 101 call make to the police . Cornwall first pilot tri - service officer in the west of the duchy 10 year ago and have since be grow and roll they out across the area . we now have 13 TSSOs in Cornwall , include in Fowey and St Dennis in my constituency , and I be pleased that another one will shortly be in place in Mevagissey , but we be not keep this to ourselves . be the generous people we be in Cornwall , we be share the service with our neighbour in Devon . I be pleased to say that in April a two - year pilot will commence in Holsworthy in the constituency of my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Torridge and West Devon ( Sir Geoffrey Cox ) . the value of TSSOs can not be overstate . they be hugely welcome by the community they serve . a key theme from this extensive list of duty be the focus on prevention , early intervention and reduce vulnerability . emergency response work take up less than 10 % of their time . their real value be in provide the three emergency service with a presence in otherwise hard - to - reach community . when task through any of the three service , they look to problem - solve from a multi - agency perspective . that ability to deal with issue be far enhance by have access to datum across all service , with information share agreement in place . to give a basic example of a TSSO ' s holistic approach , while attend a police neighbourhood dispute , they may fit a smoke alarm , make a mental health referral , signpost a family to a third sector organisation or explore suitable pathway to Cornwall Council service or other available support service . all the while , tri - service officer ensure the high level of safeguarding be in place for the vulnerable member of our community they lead on . all TSSOs be highly skilled , motivated professional . a bespoke training package have be develop for they in Cornwall . the outcome be clear and very positive indeed . first , have tsso reduce the demand and impact on the three emergency service . in a part of the world where , as a result of our geography and ever - grow demand , our emergency service be spread out thinly , tri - service officer have be widely praise for their proactive approach as well as their level of dedication show to the task at hand while maintain a people - focus approach . they also reduce the demand on key partner within the public , private and voluntary sector in their local community . where tsso help with emergency response work , they do so with excellence . figure from 2022 - 23 show that TSSOs in Cornwall respond to 3 , 000 incident . in close to 50 incident , they administer urgent first aid , include through the use of cardiopulmonary resuscitation or defibrillator . put simply , they save life . that year , one officer , TSSO Hart , receive a chief superintendent ' s commendation for outstanding work deal with a collapse male who be have a heart attack . tsso ' performance figure from the past year speak for themselves : there be over 600 police log attend ; nearly 500 ambulance call attend ; nearly 500 domestic premise risk reduction visit conduct ; nearly 40 antisocial behaviour incident address ; more than 1 , 200 hour spend provide fire cover ; and more than 3 , 500 hour log provide safeguarding , community engagement and training for other officer , as well as much else . on top of that , they have be credit with build strong link between the three service and local community in Cornwall . in recent year , TSSOs have link up with the Cornwall base charity FLEET — the Front Line Emergency Equipment Trust — to deliver 200 Raizer mobile lift chair to people who have have a fall , so that those people can be safe at home . all TSSOs now carry a Raizer chair in their vehicle because of the £ 35 , 000 funding gain in support of the project . tsso have also partner with school on junior life skill ; across Cornwall , more than 1 , 500 child have have the chance to engage directly with officer at police and fire station and learn about their work . in the long term , that emphasis on prevention of vulnerability and early intervention aim to reduce call to our 999 service . the community serve by tsso have a broad overlap with area of deprivation , as five tri - service officer be base in the community network area of the 10 most deprive area in Cornwall . those area have high health inequality , high crime rate and high vulnerability risk factor . a whole - system , multi - agency approach be key to address the challenge that area of high deprivation face , build safe community and reduce frontline demand . the TSSO be uniquely place not just to bridge the three - pronged gap , but to do so in a cost - effective way , deliver excellent value for the taxpayer . as tsso expand into Devon , will the Minister look at the success we have have , and how the model might benefit other part of the country , and other rural and coastal area in particular ? I understand that Devon and Cornwall police have begin discussion with the Home Office on that ; it lead to an opportunity to present the TSSO model to official at a recent event . the response be apparently warm , and a delegation have arrange to visit later this month . I ask the Minister to take an interest in that visit . I invite he to Cornwall to see for himself the invaluable work of our tri - service officer in our community . we also plan to hold an event in Parliament in the come month to give colleague an opportunity to meet those involve in the scheme , and to discuss how it could benefit their area . I will extend an invitation to the event to the Minister . this role , which cross over the three emergency service , have become more understand and use over the last 12 month . that be largely down to the proactive work of TSSOs in make sure that their role and duty be well understand . there be now great understanding across all the local partner , which have lead to TSSOs be well use to support and complement service . I recently have the pleasure of go on patrol with one of our excellent TSSOs , Lewis Rosewell , who be base in the village of St Dennis and serve many of the clay mining village in the middle of my constituency . spend time with Lewis be both informative and inspiring , and give I a real insight into the valuable work and service provide by TSSOs ; we do fire safety visit , visit vulnerable resident , do welfare check , and follow up on a recent antisocial behaviour incident . it be the near thing that I have see to the old - school " bobby on the beat " style of policing , but there be the additional benefit of TSSOs work closely with a whole range of service . I want to bring funding concern to the Minister ' s attention ; they represent the big challenge to our fantastic TSSO programme . the TSSO model be base on each of the three service contribute a third . a tri - service officer cost around £ 48 , 000 each year , and each of the three service contribute £ 16 , 000 , which represent excellent value for money give the positive feedback and outcome in reduce demand and response time . there be a real desire to expand the service across Cornwall , include to some town , rather than just village . there be a commitment from the police and the fire service to make this contribution , but the NHS integrate care board have not yet confirm that it will match the funding for the come year . it would be disappointing if the NHS — the highest fund service in Cornwall — be not able to fund its share of the cost of expand the service . I would not be do my job represent my constituent if I do not urge the integrate care system to make the funding commitment . will the Minister use his office to promote the scheme to the NHS , and encourage it to confirm the funding as soon as possible , so that our TSSOs can work alongside our GP surgery and community health hub in provide support ? I believe that the scheme will become a key part of the prevention agenda in the come year . it would be frustrating if it be hold back by the NHS ' s lack of willingness to play its part . this project should be encourage , especially in rural area of the country . what plan do the Minister have to make sure that other part of the country be aware of its success in Cornwall , and to assist they in develop similar project ? finally , let I place on record my great thank to Inspector Miles Topham and all those who have enable this project to happen , and our excellent TSSOs . I wish they every success for the year ahead and in future . let I start by congratulate my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Steve Double ) on secure this evening ' s Adjournment debate , which have come slightly early than we would normally expect . he have do a very good job of explain the benefit of tri - service safety officer in Devon and Cornwall , who set an example that , as he say , the rest of the country can follow . we in the Home Office be keen to see a lot more co - operation between blue light service ; that be happen in some other part of the country as well , but not in such an integrated way . in Humberside , Bedfordshire and the wide eastern region , fire and rescue service already work with the health service on dedicated fall and bariatric team , help the ambulance service to deal with incident . in fact , in the year to September 2023 , fire and rescue service in England attend 16 , 000 medical incident , in addition to 34 , 000 incident affect entry or exit to premise , so there be some co - operation around the country already . in our White Paper , we strongly encourage further co - operation between blue light service . as my hon . Friend say , in rural area , where there be not such density of coverage , it make a great deal of sense for police , ambulance and fire service to work together to provide a response . the tri - service safety officer in Devon and Cornwall , whom he describe , be a shine example of how that can work in practice , benefit resident the length and breadth of both county . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his work in encourage and support those tri - service safety officer . I pay tribute to the fantastic police and crime commissioner for Devon and Cornwall , Alison Hernandez , who have work very hard to make this happen . the work of police and crime commissioner can really make a difference , as hers have . in part of the country such as Essex and Staffordshire where we have police , fire and crime commissioner , this kind of co - operation between police and fire become quite a lot easy . I also pay tribute to the work of my hon . friend the Member for North Cornwall ( Scott Mann ) , who be sit next to I . he have campaign successfully to reopen Bude community police station ; it recently reopen , and have a tri - service safety officer base in it , for the benefit of all resident of Bude and the surround neighbourhood . I agree with what my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay say about value for money : each of the three service have to contribute only about £ 16 , 000 per TSSO , which be a great deal cheap than fund a position each . I very much hope that the police and fire service in Devon and Cornwall will continue to fund that . I be sure that he be make the case , both to Health Ministers and to the local integrate care board , for that funding to continue . if he want any assistance from I in lobby my ministerial colleague , he have only to ask , and I will be happy to do that , but I be sure that he and his colleague in Devon and Cornwall be do that . I agree with my hon . friend ' s point that other rural force in England and Wales could learn from what have be happen in Devon and Cornwall . that apply less to large urban area , where police force and ambulance service be already very densely concentrated . however , even in urban area , the fire service tend to be under - use , so there be an opportunity to get the fire service to do more to assist the ambulance service in provide response . I have be discuss that with my colleague at the Department of Health and Social Care . however , as he eloquently describe and explain , tri - service safety officer could work well in other rural or sparsely populated area . Cumbria , which now have a police , fire and crime commissioner , spring to mind [ Interruption . ] I hear support for Cumbria from my hon . friend the Member for Workington ( Mark Jenkinson ) . I will happily raise that point with the National Police Chiefs ' Council and the National Fire Chiefs Council , and will commend the model for consideration by rural force and fire service around the country . my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay have set out the good work go on in Devon and Cornwall , and the positive impact of tri - service safety officer . again , I commend police and crime commissioner Alison Hernandez for make this happen . I will do everything I can to assist colleague in Devon and Cornwall , and rural force around the country , in make sure that as many place as possible can benefit from this excellent initiative . question put and agree to . House adjourn .