thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your new role . I also congratulate the hon . member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) , with whom I work before we both come to this Chamber , through UK100 and elsewhere , on local climate action , which I will speak much about today . I also congratulate the Minister and the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero . it mean a great deal to I to make my maiden speech during a debate in which the new Government be set out green energy policy and plan to get we back on track with our climate pledge here at home , so that we can once again contribute on the international stage towards collective global action . close to home , Government research show that local climate action would achieve net zero for half the cost of the national approach and deliver three time the financial return , but we need a clear framework between the national and the local and for how council fit into the national plan for net zero , include community energy initiative . let I say how proud and humble I be by the faith the resident of beautiful South Cambridgeshire have put in I . they want change , and this be a truly historic result . the Liberal Democrats win all three Cambridgeshire seat , turn they from blue to yellow for the first time , form a golden ring around the constituency of the Minister of State , Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the hon . member for Cambridge ( Daniel Zeichner ) . I congratulate he on his appointment as the Minister for farming . we have a golden ring , or rather a golden doughnut with red jam in the middle , and it be thank to family , friend and activist , many of they here today , that that happen . I be a lass from Hull , whose dad be a gp and mum a nurse . from an early age , I accompany my dad on his home visit to patient , and it be those root in the NHS that foster in I a deep sense of community service , as well as an insight into the link between inequality , child poverty and poor health outcome . that be why I be proud that the Liberal Democrats put the NHS and social care at the forefront of our campaign , after year of conservative chaos and neglect leave the NHS on its knee . I will continue to campaign to get fair funding for our GPs in Cambridgeshire , because the unfair funding formula in Cambridgeshire be leave GPs struggle to keep their head above water . Inequality be a cruel determinant in the covid pandemic and lead to many avoidable death . South Cambridgeshire help avoid more . it be here that the quick deciphering of the covid virus ' s genetic code allow for the vaccine to be develop straightaway . that partly explain why they be available in record time . the researcher then continue to detect the variant as they emerge . it be truly lifesaving . that be part of the reason why semi - rural South Cambridgeshire be fast change . it be now home to world - lead innovation , with Europe ' s large biomedical centre and the Wellcome Genome Campus , as well as more than 8 , 000 start - up and business , most of which be small or medium - sized enterprise . our world - lead tech and life science sector be among the big contributor to the country ' s economy , and I invite the Government to recognise that . they be the goose that lay the golden egg , which be why their future need to be shape carefully with and through the local authority , give local people a voice and tackle affordable housing , the water supply , transport and grid infrastructure gap in a way that allow community , business and nature to thrive . that be why I would like to pay my respect to my predecessor , Anthony Browne , who work hard to raise those issue . he support the call on Government to tackle the water crisis , and I look forward to continue his work support the campaign for the new cancer and child ' s hospital , too . I also pay tribute to his predecessor , Heidi Allen , who be still remember fondly by many resident . sadly , Heidi stand down from politic as a result of the abuse that many mp — mainly woman — face . in her word , " of course public scrutiny be to be expect , but line be all too often regularly cross and the effect be utterly dehumanising . " Heidi have become an MP to stand up for the vulnerable and for those who have no voice . now , more than ever , I want to continue their work by help to ensure that there be a positive and inclusive vision for all in South Cambridgeshire where no one be leave behind . it be distress that 15 % of child in my constituency be live in poverty , with increase number dependent on food bank and free school meal , isolate in village with no public transport . this inclusive vision must include our unique and precious chalk stream that connect we — our blue vein ; the silvery thread weave together our village . we have the Granta that twinkle through Stapleford , Linton and Balsham ; the River Shep that start in Fowlmere nature reserve and flow through Shepreth and Barrington village ; the River Rhee that flow through Haslingfield and Harston ; the Mel that rise in Melbourn and flow through Meldreth ; and the Fulbourn and Wilbraham chalk stream . resident be rightly outraged at the dumping of raw sewage in these stream and river . I urge the Government to get tough with the water company . together with the Government , I will champion breathe new life into the Chalk Streams ( Protections ) Bill . I have work professionally for many year with government around the world to integrate climate and nature into growth plan , mediate agreement where benefit can flow to local community . what motivate I most be how young people see their future . a recent study on young people find that too many have climate anxiety . their most use word be fear , anger , frustration and worry . there be two main reason why they feel this way : first , they do not think that decision maker listen to they ; and , secondly , they think that decision maker do not care or take the right decision for their future . I have meet many young people in South Cambridgeshire who feel this way , and they want action on the twin climate and nature emergency . I speak to they now : I want what we do in this Chamber to restore your faith and give you agency , so that together we can be the change that we want . I congratulate you on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate hon . member on discharge their responsibility and deliver their maiden speech , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) — I be sure he will correct my pronunciation and give I some honest feedback . I also welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , to the Front Bench . it be timely that I be make my maiden speech on a day when we be discuss how Scotland might shape the energy need of these island for many decade to come . I thank and pay tribute to my predecessor , Chris Stephens , for his dedicated service to our community over the last nine year . his commitment to social justice and worker ’ right be inspirational and will leave a lasting impact . I be particularly thankful for his advice and counsel during the handover process that be currently take place . Glasgow South West be a synthesis of many different community , each with recur contribution to the 850 - year - old second city of empire . if you will allow I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will give the House a short synopsis of the place where I live , work and play . we start in Darnley , Deaconsbank and Pollok , much of it occupy the old Pollok estate , the laird of which — Sir John Stirling - Maxwell — be a Member of this place and found the National Trust for Scotland in 1931 . in more recent time , these area have demonstrate the transformative possibility of their co - operative spirit through the Rosehill housing co - operative and the Pollok credit union . move north , the ruin of Crookston castle come into view . build by the Stewarts of Darnley in the 1400 , it be the only medieval castle stand in Glasgow , and it be possibly where Mary , Queen of Scots , be betroth to Lord Darnley . it remain an underutilise community asset , but I commend the friend of Crookston castle for their effort to bring this space back into the service of the people of Glasgow . a short distance from the castle , the wonderful community of Mosspark , Dumbreck and Cardonald be nestle around the great expanse of Bellahouston Park , which have play host to numerous music concert , papal visit and the empire exhibition of 1938 . as we head far north , we come to Ibrox , which be synonymous with Rangers football club . now , I must stress , Madam Deputy Speaker , that other Glasgow football club be available ; my hon . friend the Members for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) and for Glasgow East ( John Grady ) can take you for a tour around they . Govan be the birthplace of Sir Alex Ferguson , a footballe legend , but also a friend to member on the labour Benches ; he have often give wise counsel to my party . it be also the location of the Queen Elizabeth university hospital , formerly know as the Southern General , one of Britain ' s large hospital and the place where I hone my skill in surgery and practice as a transplant surgeon . my research lead I to conclude that I be the first transplant surgeon to be elect to this place . Govan ' s shipyard history be , of course , world famous , and the Fairfield Heritage Trust and Govan Workspace have bring that to life . more importantly , it continue to serve the defence of our realm even in the modern day , and to be part of Glasgow South West ' s story ; we have BAE Systems and Thales , alongside fintech and medtech company such as Barclays and Cohesion Medical , as well as award - win tv and film company such as Firecrest Films . we can see the kind of high - quality job of the future that can be available to local people . these be the kind of job I want to grow as part of this Labour Government . as we head towards the edge of the constituency , we find the BBC Scotland headquarters . the BBC have an important function in the fabric of our national life , not only in informing , educate and entertaining , but as a beacon of our soft power on the world stage — something I wholeheartedly support . just as national broadcasting be important , so be the local , and nothing encapsulate that well in Glasgow South West than sunny Govan radio station . it provide an eclectic mix of music , but also , more importantly , run sober story and be a source of comfort on some of the challenge in our community . we end our Glasgow South West journey in Pollokshields , an area my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) know well . it be a true melting pot of culture and idea , and the place where my father ' s one - month road journey from Pakistan end in April 1963 . he would go on to drive bus in the city , and then black cab — he be in his 80 and he still do . in the undergrowth of this rich history and potential , however , there be some worrying signal . there be the weariness of work ever fast and long just to stay still , the anxiety of wonder how secure that work be , and the trepidation at the end of a day of work that you may not be able to pay for the odd treat that make life worthwhile , or even the essential . it be against that backdrop that we on the Labour Benches be send to this place to make the economy work for work people , and to restore the intergenerational covenant — the promise that the life of the generation after we will be well in every sense than our own . politic for I be not , therefore , about the indulgent combative tweet , or even the theatrical amendment . it be the about see the world through the long lens . it be about have the stamina for diligent analysis , the patience to articulate policy and then , when in power , the discipline to deliver endure change . that have always be the labour way . every Member elect to this place recognise electoin for the singular honour that it truly be , but it also take a village to be elect to this place . that include , of course , the tireless staff and activist who be in many way the dna of our democracy , but there be also , for all of we , those who shape our life and now shape our politic . when I reflect back , I think of my parent and my extended family , who , from a cradle in a Govanhill tenement , instill in I the raw ingredient to do my utmost in every walk of life . I think , too , of my teacher and my mentor , who mould those ingredient into the art and craft of a widely practise surgical career , and of my wife and child , who keep I connect to the earth and in contact with reality , particularly when it be much need . out of all those people , I think of my maternal aunt , Matloob Mohammad , who stand out . she have no child of her own and consider we her child . like too many in our Labour family , she be take by glioblastoma — as be my father - in - law , Tony — in 1997 . her patient journey through our NHS inspire I to become a doctor and then a surgeon . she also , in many way , inspire my political journey . she quite inadvertently introduce I to this place 29 year ago . after queue outside , we find ourselves in the Strangers ' Gallery watch a combative Leader of the Opposition by the name of Tony Blair take on the then Prime Minister . if she be here today in that Gallery , she could not fail to notice the change in the make - up of this Parliament reflect back up at she . we have our challenge in modern Britain , but it be important to be unashamedly proud of the fact that we be demonstrably the most successfully ethno - religiously diverse legislature in the world . in these volatile time , I believe the world look to we in this place , the mother of Parliaments , for guidance , and for the solace that democracy can still deliver . I be confident that it will .