before we begin today ' s proceeding , I would like to draw the House ' s attention to the new shield commemorate our late colleague Sir David Amess , which be unveil early today at a small gathering of his family . Sir David be a dedicated constituency MP and a powerful advocate for Southend - on - Sea , which be grant city status last year in his honour . he be a committed campaigner for the cause he believe in — most notably , animal welfare — and a highly respected and value colleague , know to member in all part of the House for his kindness , his generosity and , of course , his friendship to all . he be sorely miss . this year and last year , the Government have provide £ 94 billion of cost of live support in England . in education , more than a third of child get free school meal . university tuition fee have be freeze and we have provide £ 276 million of student premium to help the most disadvantaged student . it be precisely because of the figure the hon . Lady set out that we be help student , with £ 276 million to try to ensure we help the most disadvantaged student . her own university — she mention Nottingham University — give a £ 1 , 000 bursary to disadvantaged student . we be also give up to £ 90 billion of extra help to disadvantaged family , we have freeze tuition fee and we look at loan repayment if family income fall below 15 % , so we be do everything possible to support the most disadvantaged to get high education . there have be a 30 % increase in the per - head funding to school in Devon for their special educational need provision , and the whole thrust of our reform plan be to make the system work well for parent and family and get the support for their child at the stage when they need it . we have already begin the reform programme and have just launch the nine change partnership , which be already start to make a difference to the provision . I would just say to the hon . Lady that this be yet another area where the Labour party have absolutely no policy whatsoever . we be revolutionise our skill offer by introduce 172 high technical qualification at more than 140 provider at level 4 and 5 . this include £ 150 million for provider and £ 300 million for 21 institute of technology . I note that the Opposition want to rebadge institute of technology as technical college of excellence . in our view , all our college be place of technical excellence .