Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — Health and Disability Green Paper whether she have have discussion with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of the upcoming health and disability Green Paper on the finance of disabled people . yesterday afternoon , we set out the Government ' s plan to fix the broken system , which give proper employment support to help hundred of thousand who be out of work on health and disability ground , but who want to be in a job ; deal with the work disincentive that have be insert into the benefit system over the past 15 year ; and make the personal independence payment financially sustainable . in recent week , I have be inundate with message from constituent who be worried sick about change to the disability benefit system , but yesterday ' s announcement go far than even the Conservatives manage , or dare , to . disabled people already face systemic barrier in society , include in access health , transport and housing . inadequate financial support already mean that some of the most vulnerable have to access food bank . these cut will exacerbate their pain , and fuel hunger and debt . what assessment have the Department make of the cut , the impact on finance , and the harm that they will cause ? I refer the hon . gentleman to the previous Government ' s proposal to convert PIP from cash into voucher , which cause huge anxiety . we make it clear in the announcement yesterday that we be not go to do that , but we will make change to ensure that the personal independence payment be financially sustainable in the long term . that will reassure a large number of people for whom PIP be vital . Epilepsy be a lifelong disability that have huge consequence for the life of those who have it , none more so than those mother who have epilepsy and take sodium valproate when pregnant , and whose baby be harm . will the Minister take time to meet I and my constituent , Janet Williams , whose son have be affect , to discuss how we can ensure that their quality of life be well support by the Government ? my hon . friend raise an important subject , and as she know , the Department of Health and Social Care and the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency have set up the valproate pregnancy prevention programme . I , or a Minister from DHSC , will be glad to meet my hon . friend to discuss those point . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we all know that life be more expensive for someone who be disabled , and that invest in mental health and social care would give disabled people the support that they deserve . liberal Democrats believe that if the Government be serious about cut welfare spending , they would get serious about fix health and social care , and the broken Department for Work and Pensions . by fix that , we would reduce the benefit bill in the long term , but yesterday ' s change , which slash the support offer to vulnerable people , will leave many people face difficult choice . can the Minister assure disabled people , include the 80 , 000 in Scotland who be still receive PIP , that they will be listen to , their need will be take into account , and they will somehow continue to get the support that they need ? I be sure the hon . Lady will welcome the additional £ 26 billion be invest in the national health service in the come financial year , for exactly the reason she set out , and the most severely impair people will be protect under the change that we announce yesterday to the personal independence payment . yes , we will be consult — there will be a full 12 - week consultation period on the Green Paper proposal , and we will be listen carefully to what everybody say in response . ethnic minority People : discrimination what step she be take to help end discrimination against ethnic minority people . what step she be take to help end discrimination against ethnic minority people . what step she be take to help end discrimination against ethnic minority people . this Government be clear that someone ' s race or ethnicity should never be a barrier to success . as set out in the King ' s Speech last July , we be committed to introduce mandatory ethnicity and disability pay gap reporting for large employer ; those measure will be part of the draft equality in race and disability Bill . yesterday we publish a consultation on those proposal , and announce that we have establish a new race equality engagement group , which will partner with ethnic minority community , stakeholder and delivery partner to help shape the Government ' s work on race equality . I be delighted that Baroness Lawrence of Clarendon have agree to chair that group . Glasgow ' s muslim community be characterise by its kindness and public service . last weekend , I visit my friend at the Hillview islamic and education centre in Shettleston , and meet the convenor of the Muslim Council of Scotland , Dr Muhammad Adrees . I hear about terrible incident of anti - muslim hatred and crime in Glasgow and the west of Scotland . do my hon . friend agree that our muslim brother and sister should not have to live with that hatred , and will she set out the step that the Government be take to combat that ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and I completely agree with he . indeed , I also attend a wonderful interfaith iftar in Hounslow on Friday . Islamophobia be completely abhorrent and have no place in our society . no one should ever be the victim of hatred because of their religion or belief . the Government have establish a new work group to provide the Government with a definition of anti - muslim hatred and Islamophobia , and advise the Government and other body on how good to understand , quantify and define prejudice , discrimination and hate crime target against Muslims . I thank the Minister for her commitment to mandatory ethnicity pay gap reporting . however , I be disappointed to learn that the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority be row back on their proposal to boost diversity in financial service . I feel that risk push away the very good talent from the sector . only 4 % of financial service firm disclose their ethnicity pay gap . the announcement will only slow the pace of change that be need to tackle inequality . do the Minister agree that initiative that aim to reduce the ethnicity pay gap be not anti - growth , but pro - talent and pro - growth ? fair and equal treatment at work be a right , not a privilege . company like Deloitte , which I visit recently , be report voluntarily on their ethnicity pay gap , and I have attend roundtable chair by organisation such as Change the Race Ratio and ShareAction , which promote the benefit of ethnicity pay gap reporting . there have be progress ; last week , the Parker review show that there be an increase number of ethnic minority board member in our FTSE company . I agree with my hon . friend that pay gap reporting can help employer to identify and remove barrier to progression for their workforce , and unleash talent from all our community , thereby support economic growth , and I thank she for her work on this . I be pleased to see the Government ' s announcement of the newly establish race equality engagement group , chair by Baroness Doreen Lawrence , a tireless campaigner against discrimination for many decade . what step be the Government take to recognise caste - base discrimination in law ? will that issue be the focus of the group ' s work ? my hon . friend reference the race equality engagement group , which we announce yesterday . the group will strengthen the Government ' s link with ethnic minority community , enable effective two - way dialogue on the Government ' s work to tackle race equality , and engage on all issue . we be consider our position on caste discrimination under the Equality Act 2010 , and we will update the House in due course . as a former NHS employee , I be shocked to hear that the Community Security Trust have find that the number of complaint of antisemitism in the NHS triple in the 17 month after 7 October 2023 . what step be the Government take to crack down on antisemitism in the NHS ? the hon . Gentleman will agree that antisemitism have no place in our society or in our workplace . this be an extremely important issue , and he will know that the Home Secretary and the whole Government take it very seriously . Aberdeen mosque and islamic centre in my constituency be vandalise while worshipper be inside . I be pleased that the local community come together and help with the clean - up . the University of Glasgow have publish a report that say that one in three muslim student be victim of Islamophobic abuse . do the Minister agree that the Government and the House have a responsibility to ensure that racist stereotype be not put our muslim community at risk of a rise in hate crime and far - right extremism ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . it be important that we tackle religious and racial hatred in all its form . as well as overt discrimination , there be many hide ethnic disparity , particularly in healthcare . mortality rate in maternity service be four time high for black woman and twice as high for asian woman . what discussion be the Minister have with the Department of Health and Social Care to address those huge inequality in maternity care ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . there be stark inequality in maternal health , mental health and a range of other area , include infant mortality . she be absolutely right that that must be tackle . we be work across Government and with the Department of Health and Social Care on those issue . I call the shadow Minister . do the Minister think it be acceptable for anyone in this country to say that people should " pray for victory " for Hamas over Israel , or for anyone to celebrate the 7 October attack as a David - over - Goliath situation ? if not , why do the Prime Minister invite Adam Kelwick , who have say such despicable thing , to no . 10 just last week ? will the Minister apologise on behalf of the Prime Minister to the jewish community , who need to know that this Government will stand with they against violence , hatred and division — and , in fact , with community of all race and religion ? all community need to be support . the shadow Minister know that Hamas be a proscribe organisation , and we will not tolerate antisemitism at any point , or in any way . violence against Women and girl what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . we will deliver a cross - Government violence against woman and girl strategy , and we be already take significant step to ensure that VAWG be treat as the national emergency that it be . that include embed the first domestic abuse specialist in 999 control room under Raneem ' s law , start in five police force , and far extend the roll - out of domestic abuse protection order to Cleveland and north Wales . I thank the Minister for her answer . a constituent of mine in Southampton Itchen suffer horrendous domestic and sexual abuse while she be a serve police officer , but inexplicably the rule do not allow she to take her complaint to the Independent Office for Police Conduct , and make she a victim of the very system that be mean to offer her protection . do the Minister agree that a woman ' s right to get justice should not depend on the job that she happen to do ? will she meet I and my constituent to discuss the change need so that we can well protect dedicated public servant such as she ? I absolutely agree . I be more than happy to meet my hon . friend and his constituent . allegation of any crime involve serve police officer should be investigate robustly and independently by the police . outside of criminal investigation , disciplinary investigation , include those involve serious assault and sexual violence , be refer to the IOPC under mandatory referral criterion , but there be more to do . in my constituency of Stevenage , we have an excellent charity call SADA — survivor against Domestic Abuse . such charity rely on multi - agency work to deliver essential service to those affect by domestic abuse . how be the Government continue to support organisation in work closely together to continue to provide effective service to those who have suffer domestic abuse ? I thank SADA for the amazing work that it do . in December 2024 , we prioritise confirm funding for those deliver frontline service . in the next few week , we will work on agree decision about our wide budget that will support the Government ' s ambition of halve VAWG in a decade , to deliver on our manifesto commitment . on International Women ' s Day , our community in Tamworth come together to not only celebrate the achievement of woman , but reflect on the important issue of the safety of woman and girl . local woman Tamanna and Mckenzie take the initiative to organise a walk - and - talk event , bring together key organisation , include the UP Creative Hub community interest company and Tamworth Street Angels . they have never organise an event before , and they manage to pull together 50 woman in just two week . will the Minister join I in congratulate Tamanna and Mckenzie on that fantastic event , and on their dedication to raise awareness of such an important issue ? absolutely , gladly . Tamanna and Mckenzie deserve all our praise . it be infectious ; the first time we do such a thing often lead to the second . the rise of the woman be the rise of we all . I be sure we all agree that secure woman ' s wellbee be key to tackle violence against woman and girl , so can the Minister assure woman across my constituency and the country that the Labour Government , have promise to prioritise woman ' s health , be commit to continue the Conservative Government ' s work by make sure there be a woman ' s health hub in every integrate care board , to ensure holistic support for woman ? a Minister to my left tell I that these hub be already in nine out of 10 integrate care board . I can assure the hon . Lady that I be work very closely with the Department of Health and Social Care on the violence against woman and girl strategy , because there be real gap when it come to how domestic abuse , sexual violence and other related abuse be deal with by our health service . that will be absolutely fundamental to both protection and prevention . I thank the Minister for her answer and for her ongoing engagement on this issue with the people in Northern Ireland . the name Natalie McNally will mean much to the Minister ; on 18 December 2022 , Natalie be brutally murder in my constituency , along with her unborn baby . can the Minister update the House on ongoing discussion about a UK - wide strategy for tackle violence against woman that will improve conviction rate , get tough sentencing , and provide more support for victim ? we do this in the name of Natalie and the many other woman who have lose their life . I thank the hon . Lady for her continued support for Natalie ' s family . when I be in Northern Ireland , it be very clear to I that that support have be in place . a fundamental part of halve violence against woman and girl have be look at exactly the issue she have talk about — the femicide of woman , and how we can all work together in a multi - agency way to ensure that I do not have to read out name like Natalie McNally ' s . will the Minister discuss with the Home Secretary how good we can bring to account , albeit belatedly , those still survive who aid and abet Mohamed Fayed in the rape and sexual assault of young woman and girl ? the Home Secretary and I have very much discuss that . while there be ongoing police investigation , it would be inappropriate for I to make any further comment . however , have meet some of those affect , I want to see exactly what the right hon . Gentleman want to see . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the Minister and many colleague in this place will be aware of the groundbreaking new Netflix programme " Adolescence " . it be chilling , but be rightfully force a national conversation about the dangerous content see by young man and boy , with fatal consequence . give the important role that school play in prevent violence against woman and girl , will the Minister provide an update on what be be do with the Department for Education to counter misogyny and extreme violence , in order to enable a safe future for young boy and girl ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that include man and boy in the conversation about how we prevent future violence against woman and girl will be absolutely fundamental . a huge portion of the new violence against woman and girl strategy be focus on prevention , and what we can do in our school , our workplace and elsewhere to reach man and boy , in order to change the future . I have be contact by a number of woman in my constituency who be victim of domestic violence , and whose partner continue to exert control over they through the family court process and the presumption that they will be able to access their child . will the Minister meet I , or inform I of what she be do with the Ministry of Justice to help those woman escape that control ? I work hand in glove with my counterpart in the Ministry of Justice on the violence against woman and girl strategy , and I have long - stand concern — as the hon . Lady do — about the presumption of contact and family court issue . those issue will form the subject of part of our reform , and be be look into . I will gladly meet the hon . Lady . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in January , the Labour Government commit to assist five local inquiry , include one in Oldham . into groom gang and rape gang . two month on , we have have no update from the Government about the other location . in which town can woman and girl now sleep safely in their bed ? when and where will the other four inquiry take place , and what do the Government plan to do about the other 45 town and city across the country in which those gang have reportedly operate ? what the Government plan to do across the country be more than be do before . the House should expect an update very soon exactly on all the plan that the Home Secretary lay out . she say that the announcement would come before Easter , and I beg the shadow Minister to have the patience she show with her own government when they offer none of these thing . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this Government celebrate International Women ' s Day and Women ' s History Month by accelerate action to change woman ' s life . that mean great opportunity in the workplace and ensure that our street be safe for woman and that we have well public service for our woman and their family . harness the talent and skill of all woman will boost our economy . a 5 % increase in employment among woman could boost the UK economy by up to £ 125 billion . woman ' s equality be at the heart of our plan for change and will drive economic growth for everyone . accord to research , 52 % of integrate care board in England , include Cheshire and Merseyside ICB , still require same - sex couple to self - fund at least six to 12 cycle of costly intrauterine insemination before they be eligible to access in vitro fertilisation treatment on the NHS . can the Secretary of State please tell we what she be do to end the postcode lottery for lesbian and bi couple look to start a family ? my hon . friend be right to draw the House ' s attention to the postcode lottery and the patchy access to IVF across our country . we want to make sure that everyone have fair access to high - quality care . the Department of Health and Social Care have start to make progress towards its ambition to improve access to IVF service , and we also await the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence conclude its review on clinical guidance for the provision of such service . I call the shadow Minister . parent up and down the country be anxious about the use of puberty blocker on under - 18 , so I be disappoint to read that the Health Secretary have fail to intervene in an NHS puberty blocker trial , despite grave concern about child ' s safety . the landmark Cass review say that more evidence be need , but will the Secretary of State show moral courage and common - sense leadership to ensure that these dangerous and irreversible drug be never test on our child ? the Government ' s position on this issue have be clear . we have accept all the recommendation bring forward by Dr Hilary Cass . I have meet Dr Hilary Cass to discuss this issue . give the question the shadow Minister have ask , he perhaps misunderstand the recommendation that Dr Cass bring forward . what consideration have be give to the introduction of safe leave for employee experience domestic abuse ? we strongly encourage employer to support their employee who experience domestic abuse . many already do that through their membership of the employer ' initiative on domestic abuse , which empower employer to take action . I will be work with the Department for Business and Trade , include through the violence against woman and girl strategy , to look at issue specific to victim in the workplace . will the Minister update the House on what change , if any , she intend to make to the Equality Act 2010 ? in particular , if she be go to make caste a protect characteristic , will she ensure that people of all religion that emanate from the indian subcontinent be consult , because that measure would severely impact every such family in this country ? we have no plan to change the Equality Act . as my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) set out early , through the new race engagement group be lead by Baroness Lawrence we will consider any such question , include the one that the hon . Gentleman identifie . after an appalling rape incident on the Fuller Street bridge in my constituency , I be shocked to find that last year only 2 . 7 % of record rape in the UK result in a charge . what be the Minister do to improve the charge rate and get justice for more survivor of this appalling crime ? I be very sorry to hear of the case in my hon . friend ' s constituency . it bring into sharp focus the need to tackle violence against woman and girl , and to ensure that our mission to halve its incidence be deliver . our inheritance from the Conservatives be shocking , with far too many woman deny justice , case never get to court , and victim be leave to wait for year for justice . that be why the Lord Chancellor have make it a priority to take action to deliver justice for woman . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I welcome to the Gallery the Chairman of the State Great Hural , the Parliament of Mongolia . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 19 March . last night I speak to President Zelensky to discuss progress that President Trump have make with Russia towards a ceasefire , and I take the opportunity to reaffirm our unwavering support for the people of Ukraine . I be deeply concerned about the resumption of israeli military action in Gaza . the image of parent carry their child — young child — to hospital that have emerge over the last few day be truly shocking , as be the sheer number of those who have be kill . we will do all that we can to ensure the resumption of the ceasefire in order to get the remain hostage out , and to get aid that be desperately need in . the whole House will want to celebrate the extraordinary life of Group Captain John " Paddy " Hemingway , the last know pilot of the battle of Britain . the courage of his generation , the fearlessness , the sense of duty and the service , secure our freedom , and we will never forget they . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , I shall have further such meeting later today . brain tumour kill more child and adult under the age of 40 than any other cancer . from time to time all of we in our surgery hear story from our constituent that really get to we and twang the heartstring . last Friday , Laura attend my Sharnford surgery and tell I of the tragic death of her energetic , love six - year - old son Taylan from a brain tumour . all that she ask be for I to raise this matter nationally , and I be do that now , but I want to go one step far . will the Prime Minister agree to arrange a meeting for Laura , and the brain tumour support group know as Angel Mums , with the relevant healthcare Minister to discuss brain tumour research ? I thank the hon . gentleman for do what he be ask to do , and raise that case here . the loss of a child be unbearable , and I think that most we , include I , simply do not know how we would be able to react . I be sure that the whole House will want to send its deep condolence to Laura , and to all Taylan ' s family and friend . I will happily ensure that the meeting the hon . Gentleman have request take place , so that we can give a reassurance that we be commit to support lifesaving and life - improve research and do all we can to improve the way in which in we prevent , detect , manage and treat cancer . like many people in Peterborough , I be passionate about tackle low pay and insecure work , especially for young people . next month many of my constituent will receive a welcome boost in their pay packet owe to the increase in the national minimum wage that be be deliver by this Labour Government . may I thank the Prime Minister for ignore the voice of those on the Opposition Benches who continue to oppose our plan to make work pay , and may I urge he to go far and fast in deliver our plan for change for work people ? I thank my hon . friend , who do a superb job for Peterborough . we be proud of the fact that our Employment Rights Bill be tackle the cost of insecure work , and that we be deliver that pay rise for 3 million of the lowest - pay . we know that the Leader of the opposition oppose all that . she think that the minimum wage be a burden , and that maternity pay be excessive . it be the same old Tories . they oppose the minimum wage in the first place ; they have learn absolutely nothing . I call the Leader of the Opposition . the Chancellor claim that her Budget be " a once - in - a - Parliament reset " , so why be we have an emergency Budget next week ? we have deliver record investment into this country , we have have three interest rate cut in a row and wage be go up fast than price , which be a massive cost of live boost . that be in only eight month , after 14 year of absolute failure . what do the Conservatives leave ? interest rate be at 11 % and there be a massive £ 22 billion black hole in the economy . they crash the economy ; we be rebuild Britain . the Prime Minister know why we be have an emergency Budget . it be because since the last one — since the Chancellor deliver her Budget in October — growth be down , borrowing be up and she have destroy business confidence . do the Prime Minister now regret raise taxis on business ? the Office for Budget Responsibility will present its number and there will be a spring statement next week . we have record investment into this country and interest rate have be cut . the Leader of the Opposition talk about national insurance . we have to fill the £ 22 billion black hole that the Conservatives leave . we have invest in the NHS , school and public service . we be press on with planning , with infrastructure and regulation . I understand the Leader of the Opposition be straight - talk , so perhaps she can help we with this . be she go to reverse the national insurance contribution increase ? if not , what be the point ? if so , what other taxis be she raise to fill the hole — one way or another ? the only black hole be the one that the Prime Minister be dig . he have show absolutely no regret , but everybody know that the Chancellor have make a mistake . that be why they be have an emergency Budget . later today , conservative will vote to exempt hospice , pharmacy and care provider from her national insurance rise . will he at the very least support exempt those vulnerable service from his job tax ? I notice the Leader of the Opposition do not say that the Conservatives would reverse the national insurance rise . that be exactly it : she want all the benefit , but they can not say how they be go to pay for they . she carps from the sideline , but can not make her mind up whether she support or do not support national insurance rise . we have make provision for hospice and we have make provision for charity , but we have to secure the economy . we have to fill the £ 22 billion black hole that they disgracefully leave . the Prime Minister have not make these provision . he keep talk about Budget benefit . unemployment be not a benefit ; business close be not benefit . I ask he whether he would exempt hospice — even child ' s hospice — from the job tax . he do not answer that question . his mp know that this could affect end of life care , so I will ask the same question again : will he exempt hospice from pay his job tax ? we have already invest £ 100 million for adult and child ' s hospice , with an additional £ 26 million in funding through the child ' s hospice grant , but we can not get away from the root cause of what we be do in that Budget , which be fix the economy the Conservatives leave so badly damage — a £ 22 billion black hole . perhaps the Leader of the opposition will start the next question with an apology . I remember when the Prime Minister make — [ interruption . ] if Labour member want I to answer question , we can swap side . I remember when the Prime Minister make that announcement . he have forget , because the money he be refer to for hospice be for building . it be not for the salary hit by the job tax . as St Helena hospice in Colchester say : " we can not use this funding for salary which be where we need urgent help . " why be the Prime Minister not listen to hospice ? I have already set out the position in relation to hospice . the Leader of the Opposition say that she want to swap side — heaven forbid ! after 14 year of break everything , we be get on with the job of fix it , and all she can do be carp from the sideline with absolutely no policy . winter fuel payment have be snatch . the job tax be hammer everyone from business to charity . the Chancellor promise a once - in - a - Parliament Budget ; that she would not come back for more . in that budget , she say : " there will be no extension of the freeze in income tax … threshold " . — [ Official Report , 30 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 821 . ] ahead of the emergency Budget , will the right hon . and learn Gentleman repeat the commitment that she make ? the right hon . Lady have such pre - script question she can not adapt they to the answer I be give . I think she now call herself a conservative realist . well , I be realistic about the Conservatives . the reality be that they leave open border and she be the cheerleader , they crash the economy , mortgage go through the roof , the NHS be leave on its knee and they hollow out the armed force . this Government have already deliver 2 million extra NHS appointment , 750 breakfast club , record return of people who should not be here , and a fully fund increase in our defence spending . that be the difference a Labour Government make . a lady come to see I recently who need help . she have a disability , which mean that her child have to help she cut up her food . they have to help she wash beneath the waist . they have to supervise she as she go to the toilet . under the Tory welfare system , we be able to get that lady on to a personal independence payment . under the Prime Minister ' s new propose system , she will get zero — nothing . after 14 year of the Tory Government and many of we want to see the back of they , can the Prime Minister answer one question ? what be the point , if Labour be go to do this ? I have live with the impact of disability in our family , through my mother and brother , all my life . I do understand the human impact , but the current system be morally and economically indefensible . we be right to reform it and nobody should be defend the broken status quo . we be proceed on three principle : if you can work , you should work ; if you need help into work , the state should help you , not hinder you ; and if you can never work , you must be support and protect . they be the right principle , and we can not leave the current system as it be . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark on Ukraine and Gaza . I also pay tribute to Group Captain John " Paddy " Hemingway and all our hero from the battle of Britain . member across the House will , like I , have hear from GPs , dentist , community pharmacist and care home who be all deeply worried about the impact of the national insurance rise on the service they provide to patient . that be why the House of Lords pass a liberal Democrat amendment to exempt NHS and care provider . that amendment come before this House this afternoon , but we be hear worrying report that the Prime Minister will order Labour mp to vote against it . will the Prime Minister reassure the House and patient across the country that those report be not true ? I start by point out that , because of the change we make at the Budget , we be able to put record amount of money into our national health service . it be vitally important that we do so . it be not right simply to oppose the measure we have to take to raise the money and at the same say , as the right hon . Gentleman do , that he want the benefit of the increase in funding to the NHS . the two can not sit together . we have already invest an additional £ 3 . 7 billion of funding in social care , include £ 880 million to increase the social care grant . we be take step , but the basic point remain : we can not make the investment in the nhs if we do not raise the money . he can not simply oppose any raising of money and at the same time welcome the money into the NHS . I think the whole House be disappoint by that reply . I hope that , ahead of the spring statement , the Prime Minister and the Chancellor will think about take that money from the NHS , and reverse that . I would like to turn to the issue of illegal hare coursing . criminal gang be terrorise rural community across our country , from Cambridgeshire to Devon , from Oxfordshire to Wiltshire . man in balaclavas be threaten and abuse farmer , as these criminal tear across their field in 4x4s . farmer be warn that it be only a matter of time before someone be kill . do the Prime Minister agree with I that we must act urgently against this appalling criminality ? will he back our call for a comprehensive rural crime strategy , so that we not just stamp out hare course but keep our rural community safe from all crime ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for raise this important issue , which be a matter of deep concern . we be already develop a rural crime strategy , but we will happily work with he and other to develop it far . my constituent in Birmingham Northfield be deeply concerned about the scourge of knife crime , and I pay tribute to the professionalism of West Midlands police for its response to these horrendous attack . however , there be still 1 , 200 few police officer and police community support officer in the force than in 2010 , and a new bid for 150 more officer have be submit to the Home Office . will the Prime Minister look at this issue so that the police can do more to keep our street secure and safe ? I join my hon . friend in commend West Midlands police for keep his community safe . we be double our investment to £ 200 million towards the recruitment of 13 , 000 neighbourhood police officer , give every community a name officer to help tackle violent crime , and we be currently work through bid with force to ensure that we do so . I will ensure that he get a meeting with the Policing Minister . we have a deeply unfair and unequal economic system , where vast number of people be struggle while billionaire be get rich and rich . do the Prime Minister really think that the way to tackle this situation be to put the onus on old people , child , and now sick and disabled people , rather than on the shoulder of the super - rich — those who can most easily afford to pay — with a wealth tax ? if the Prime Minister use the phrase " difficult choice " in his answer , will he specify " difficult choice " for whom ? we do have a proportional tax system , and we have raise tax on the wealthy under this Government . the hon . Lady ' s advice would count for a bit more if her party ' s manifesto have not be a recipe for £ 80 billion of extra borrowing , which would have do exactly what Liz Truss do to the economy — that would not help any of the people she be claim to support . I welcome the Government ' s ambitious growth plan for the Oxford - Cambridge arc , which promise to reverse year of decline and transform the eastern region by drive prosperity , create job and deliver much - need housing . do the Prime Minister agree that the crown achievement of these plan would be the establishment of a world - class theme park in Bedford borough , which would transform our local economy , create thousand of job and opportunity , and elevate Bedford as a national hub for leisure and tourism ? my hon . friend be right to raise this important project , which we be work on . it be vital that we unleash the potential of the Oxford - Cambridge corridor — and , of course , Bedford — by generate growth , job and opportunity . we be do that by speed up the delivery of new infrastructure project , slash red tape and get Britain build . many of my constituent have approach I about the inadequate treatment of young people with eat disorder . this year , despite a 30 % increase in referral , the majority of integrate care board have cut real - term funding . currently , as I have see in my own family and in my weekly surgery , those who reach out for treatment be tell , in effect , " come back when you be thin , " increase both the human and financial cost of treatment . do the Prime Minister agree that timely intervention be critical , and will he meet I to discuss how we fund they ? the hon . Gentleman be right : too many people with eat disorder be not get the treatment they need . the NHS be expand eat disorder treatment service with a focus on access treatment early and close to home , and we be provide access to specialist mental health professional in every school . I will make sure that he be keep update . labour ' s flagship Crime and Policing Bill be design to tackle the rise in antisocial behaviour , theft and shoplifting that occur under the Tories . it will grant police the power to confiscate disruptive off - road vehicle , which will help to tackle the scourge of off - road bike in my constituency . do the Prime Minister agree that we be the party of law and order , and that we be fulfil our commitment ? it be totally unacceptable for anyone to feel intimidated or unsafe due to the action of reckless and selfish individual . whatever the vehicle , our Bill give police force strong power to seize they immediately and put a stop to antisocial behaviour . that be our plan for change in action , make our street and community safe . have have 14 year to get ready , Labour come into power with no plan to reform welfare . now , in a panic because of their economic mismanagement , the Government be cut benefit for disabled people without consult they at all . it probably say in the Prime Minister ' s folder that the High Court rule that the Conservatives ' consultation be too short , but at least we consult . the Government be not consult at all . will the Prime Minister explain why he be do thing to disabled people and not with they ? no , what it say in my folder be that the Conservatives have 14 year — [ interruption . ] they do not need to consult ; they just have to get on with it . they have a majority of 80 for their last five year of Government . they be now carp on about some of their idea . they have 14 year and they do not implement a single one ; they simply break the system . they be in no place to lecture other people . accord to the charity shelter , there be more homeless child in my city of Edinburgh than in the whole of Wales . that be an appalling legacy of 18 year of SNP Government . do the Prime Minister agree that there should be no homeless child , and will he work with I , the Scottish Parliament and anyone who will listen to end child homelessness in Scotland ? the situation that my hon . friend describe be an appalling indictment of the SNP record . the conservative party leave record homelessness in England . the SNP record be equally shameful : a record number of child in temporary accommodation . we be invest £ 1 billion to tackle homelessness , abolish no - fault eviction and build 1 . 5 million new home . meanwhile , the SNP have cut its affordable housing budget . it have have the large settlement since devolution . it have the power and the money ; now it be time that it start deliver . this morning , I receive an email from Santander inform I that the Bognor Regis and Rustington branch in my constituency be both set to close . with four other bank branch have shut across the constituency in 2023 alone , the most vulnerable member of our society be be gradually cut off from essential banking service . small cash - base business will also struggle to deposit their taking , face with the add burden of travel to Chichester or Worthing , make it even hard for they to operate . what decisive action be the Prime Minister take to guarantee that people and business in my constituency and across the country be not leave without access to cash and vital banking service ? we be roll out 350 banking hub across all community . I will happily arrange for the hon . Lady to have a meeting with the Minister to discuss how that might affect her constituency . first , let I welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement of £ 200 million from the National Wealth Fund for the industrial future of Grangemouth . today , I want to ask specifically about the worker face redundancy . give the assurance from the Prime Minister on 18 February and repeat by Anas Sarwar , the Scottish Labour Leader , as recently as 4 March , can the Prime Minister confirm that the guarantee give on 18 month ' pay protection will be honour for all those worker lose their job due to the Grangemouth refinery closure , include the share service worker , and will he say how the payment can be claim by all those affect ? Petroineos have say that every employee make redundant will get 18 month ' full pay . the Project Willow report , which have come out today , describe how we can support a sustainable industrial future for Grangemouth , which be incredibly important , deliver job and economic growth . as my hon . friend reference , I have announce £ 200 million through the National Wealth Fund to secure the site ' s long - term future , and that be back by the £ 100 million Falkirk and Grangemouth growth deal and the training guarantee to support worker into good job . those be all action that we be take on this very important issue . today , the House of Lords consider the Infected Blood Compensation Scheme Regulations 2025 , which diverge from the proposal of the inquiry report and the Government response . the regulation introduce new exclusion , treat victim inconsistently and downgrade some previously agree award , such as that for my constituent Owen Savill . will the Prime Minister remember the promise make to victim such as Owen and think again ? the victim of this scandal have suffer unspeakably . I be pleased that at the Budget we set aside £ 11 . 8 billion to compensate they for this appalling scandal . I gently point out that the conservative party be commit , rightly , to the compensation but do not provide a single penny in the column to pay for it . the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have be establish and it begin to make payment last year , with over £ 1 billion of interim payment have be make . we remain completely committed to co - operate with the inquiry and act on its recommendation . everyone be talk about " Adolescence " , the series by Knowsley ' s own Stephen Graham and Christine Tremarco , which highlight online male radicalisation and violence against girl . the creator of the show be call for screening in Parliament and school to spark change . will the Prime Minister back the campaign to counter toxic misogyny early and give young man the role model that they deserve ? yes . at home we be watch " Adolescence " with our child — I have a 16 - year - old boy and a 14 - year - old girl . it be a very good drama to watch . the violence carry out by young man , influence by what they see online , be a real problem . it be abhorrent and we have to tackle it . we be put in specialist rape and sexual offence team in every police force and do work on 999 call , but this be also a matter of culture . it be important that , across the whole House , we tackle this emerge and grow problem . the Liberal Democrats have long call for a UK - EU youth mobility scheme . polling have repeatedly show that the majority of Brits support the idea , include my constituent in Epsom and Ewell . a well - structure and control scheme would show that the Government be serious about provide opportunity for young people and back british business . will the Prime Minister stop sit on the fence and finally commit to a youth mobility scheme ? we be work closely with our european colleague , and the EU in particular , on a reset of the relationship . we will not be return to freedom of movement — I have make that clear repeatedly — but we be make good progress . the previous Government fail to properly support further and adult education over the past 14 year . in contrast , the Prime Minister ' s personal commitment to technical qualification have be encouraging . last year ' s Budget provide a welcome boost to some part of the sector , but need and demand be outstrip available funding . skill be crucial to the Government meet their mission to deliver economic growth , build 1 . 5 million home and transition to a green economy . will the Prime Minister reassure I that the funding model will be review , so that we do not see college have to turn away people who want to gain the skill that our country so desperately need ? my hon . friend be right that further education play a critical role in give young people the skill and confidence that they need , and the training that we need for the future . we be invest £ 400 million in education for 16 to 19 - year - old this year , and our levy - fund growth and skill offer will create job in key industry . I can assure she that the funding will deliver enough place for young people . large spending announcement for defence would make people think that Britain be march to war , but the Ministry of Defence be bimble along with procurement system that be well design for peacetime . will the Prime Minister use his good office to bring british industry into this fight , and quickly ? yes , but the opposition do leave a bit of a mess that we be clear up , have hollow out our armed force and have not make the investment that we need in our defence . we have announce the large sustained increase since the cold war to 2 . 5 % by 2027 and 3 % in the next Parliament , subject to economic circumstance . we be get on with the job and clear up the mess that they leave . my constituency have the great number of high - rise building with dangerous cladding in the country . on Friday , I visit Stratford fire station . our brilliant local firefighter tell I that 77 high - rise building in Newham and 165 in Tower Hamlets be cover in hazardous material , with many of they deem unsafe . thousand of my constituent have be call for justice for year . what be the Government do to ensure that private developer be hold to account for the dangerous cladding on high - rise building that they have build ? my hon . friend be right that remediation have be far too slow , and everybody deserve a safe and secure home . we have sign a contract with 54 major developer who will pay for or fix over 1 , 700 building , and we be accelerate that progress . we will take tough action against those who evade their responsibility . we will recover taxpayer ' fund and make sure that those responsible pay up and fix unsafe building quickly . I come to this Chamber every week to ask sensible question — [ interruption ] — and I expect sensible answer , but all I get be glaze expression and waffle from those on the Government Benches . I want to ask the Prime Minister a simple question on behalf of all the net zero sceptic . if we become net zero tomorrow , by how much would that reduce the Earth ' s temperature ? it be a simple question . net zero be of course not easy , but it be a huge opportunity to boost our growth , our job and our economy . the hon . member know my view on that . he complain , but reform would have well idea if it stop fawn over Putin . I understand that the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) want to be Prime Minister , but he can not even lead a party that fit in the back of a taxi . one in five disabled people in social housing , and one in three disabled private renter , live in inaccessible housing . one of my constituent with severe fibromyalgia and post - traumatic stress disorder live in a first - floor flat with no lift access . as we build the 1 . 5 million new home that the country need , will the Prime Minister ensure that they be build to be accessible and adaptable so that disabled and old people can live independently for generation to come ? my hon . friend be right that everybody need to be able to access a home that be suitable for they and meet their need . the planning rule already mean that council must consider the need of disabled people when plan new home . we will go far , set out our policy on accessible new home very shortly . we be boost the disabled facility grant by £ 172 million , help more people to make vital improvement and live independent life . despite Ukraine be the victim in Russia ' s illegal aggression , President Zelensky have show leadership to his people by commit to the US plan for a ceasefire . however , it be clear that Putin be play for time and be still carry out daily attack on the ukrainian people . be now not the time to take those frozen russian asset , seize they and give they to the ukrainian people to strengthen their hand at the negotiating table and punish russian aggression ? on both point , last night , follow the discussion yesterday , I speak to President Zelensky to discuss the way forward . on the wide question of asset , it be complicated — it be not straightforward — but we be work with other to see what be possible . the release of Project Willow today be a step forward in secure good job and an industrial future for Grangemouth . however , the Government need to work at pace to ensure that the recommendation in Willow be act on . will the Prime Minister outline what step he will be take to ensure that barrier to a rapid transition at Grangemouth be remove and investment be progress as quickly as possible ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise Grangemouth again , for the second time in this session ; that be because it be centrally important . he will have hear what I have to say about the project that we be look at to ensure the long - term future of Grangemouth , the interim measure that be be take and , of course , the £ 200 million of the wealth fund that I announce just a few week ago . the Prime Minister and I disagree on much — the family farm tax , the national insurance job tax and the cut in winter fuel payment — but we surely agree that the common good be build on public order . crossbow in the hand of killer cost life : they cost the life of three innocent woman last year . the previous Government move to consultation over a year ago on the regulation of crossbow , their sale and use , and yet we have hear nothing since . they be as powerful as gun , as silent as knife . will the Prime Minister agree for one of his Ministers to come to the House before Easter to give we a clear instruction about what the Government intend to do before any more life be lose ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this shocking issue ; he be right to do so . the case he refer to be truly shocking , as I think be agree across the House . we be work on this and I will make sure that he get an update so that he be across the detail of what we be do . Most member of this House will be aware that the welfare system can be a nightmare to navigate and do , indeed , need reform , but could we have less of this rhetoric about the Prime Minister ' s £ 5 billion package of disability benefit so - call reform be moral ? there be nothing moral about cut benefit for what may be up to a million people . this be not about morality ; this be about the Treasury ' s wish to balance the country ' s book on the back of the most vulnerable and poor people in this society . my right hon . friend be a passionate advocate on this issue and have be for a long time , and I pay tribute to she for that . however , as she rightly acknowledge , the current system be break . this be where I disagree with she : I think that one in eight young people not be in education or training — that be a million young people — be a moral issue . all the evidence suggest that someone in that situation at that stage of their life will find it incredibly difficult ever to get out of that level of dependency . that cut across the opportunity and aspiration that be the root of my value , and labour value , about how we take work people forward . I do see it as a moral issue and I will not turn away from that . I be genuinely shocked that a million young people be in that position , and I be not prepared to shrug my shoulder and walk past it . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . the shadow Minister for Women , the hon . member for East Grinstead and Uckfield ( Mims Davies ) , just before Prime Minister ' s question , state at the Dispatch Box that imam Adam Kelwick post that he pray for victory of Hamas over Israel . that be totally inaccurate . he make absolutely no mention , in the post to which she refer , of Hamas or against Israel ; that be add wrongly by the shadow Minister . he , in fact , call for prayer of peace . the truth be that Adam have spend year work on counter extremism and even unite people through food and conversation when rioter come to attack his local mosque in Liverpool last year . I ask that the hon . member correct the record , and I remind she that should she have make such statement outside the House , there would possibly be legal action . what advice can you give to member to ensure that they do not abuse parliamentary privilege by slander people ? I be not responsible for hon . member ' question , or for Ministers ' or shadow Ministers ' answer . I do not want to extend this question , but I can assure the hon . Lady that the Table Office will be able to advise she on how to pursue the matter . I be sure , without doubt , that it be on the record and that people will reflect on that . Food Products ( Market Regulation and Public Procurement ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the Groceries Code Adjudicator ; to require co - ordination between the Groceries Code Adjudicator and the Agricultural Supply Chain Adjudicator ; to make provision about public procurement in respect of british food product ; to make provision about the labelling of food product ; and for connected purpose . I remind the House of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . in March 1917 , at the height of the first world war , the then Prime Minister , David Lloyd George , send a letter to an Orkney farmer , Charles Paterson . he write : " in the nation ' s interest I urge you , at whatever personal sacrifice , to overcome all obstacle , to throw your full energy into the work , and to influence and encourage all who assist you , so that every possible acre shall be sow . " at that time , there be no question at the heart of Government about the vital importance of farmer in the isle and across the country . in the century since , farmer have continue to play their part in supply the nation ' s table , but their income have stagnate . the market for agricultural produce in the UK have not be a free market since at least the end of the second world war . successive government have intervene through the payment of public subsidy to farmer , initially in the name of food security and more recently in the name of cheap food for consumer . that intervention have , over the year , distort the market and allow a range of unfair practice to be hardwire into the system . as a consequence , the market today have a handful of behemoth retailer — the supermarket — at the top , hundred of thousand of farmer at the bottom and a variety of processor , distributor and other in the middle . everyone take their cut and then , at the end of it all , the farmer get whatever be leave . the power imbalance between the supermarket at the top and the farmer at the bottom be more pronounced than any other market I can think of , and it be well document that those at the top who have the power wield it to their own advantage . the extensive debate that we have have in this House in recent month have lay bare the shocking truth about the lack of profitability in farming . just last week a new report from the Food , Farming and Countryside Commission find that real income for farmer have stay stock - still for the past 50 year . shortly after the autumn Budget , a group of young farmer in my constituency come to see I and bring with they their farm account . they be despondent in point out to I that their business earn a net profit of 0 . 7 % on their capital . they be not much cheer when I point out that they be do well than many of their contemporary , as figure from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs show that the average return be as low as 0 . 5 % . one of those farmer be the great - grandson of Charles Paterson , a seventh - generation farmer who work the same land as his great - grandfather . we really could not ask for a well illustration of the shift in priority of our government over the past 100 year . this can not go on . farmer be see a rapid withdrawal of funding support . in England , the accelerate withdrawal of basic payment , follow by the closure without notice last week of the sustainable farming incentive , have leave many farmer desperately worried about the viability of their business . elsewhere in the United Kingdom , the removal of the ringfencing of money give to devolve administration for agricultural payment leave farmer there feel vulnerable to adverse change . that be why this market now need direct and meaningful intervention . without it , we risk lose domestic food production and any notion of food security . if , as the Prime Minister say , food security be national security , his Government should act urgently to allow our farmer to get a fair price for the food they produce . I be in government when the Groceries Code Adjudicator be set up . I do not think anyone believe that the GCA would be the last word in the regulation of the food supply chain , but we all take the view that it be well to have something than to have nothing . twelve year on from its creation , the limitation of the adjudicator be apparent for all to see . the office have few than 10 staff , all second from other public body , and it be fund by a levy on supermarket . to expect an operation of that size to take on some of the large retail business in the country be laughable . it be hardly surprising , then , that business supply supermarket be reluctant to make complaint , especially when the office have not issue a single fine in its entire existence . case that be pursue end up with settlement and non - disclosure agreement . since publicise my Bill , I have speak to a number of producer who have tell I about their experience at the hand of supermarket . just yesterday , I speak to a businessman who have be a supplier of Brussels sprout to a large supermarket . his company have , on the basis of undertaking make to it by the retailer , invest significantly , borrow £ 400 , 000 to build a state - of - the - art packing facility . in 2022 - 23 , that one supermarket account for 47 % of its business . then , in February 2023 , the company be tell by the supermarket that its supply be no long want for that season . for that business , the news be a hammer blow , and despite it be a prima facie breach of the grocery supply code of practice , the GCA initially decline to intervene . I would love to say that this be an isolated incident , but the GCA annual survey conduct by YouGov suggest that it be not . it find that 42 % of supplier would not raise issue because they believe the retailer would find out and that there would be consequence . the experience they describe include de - list without reasonable notice , undisputed invoice not be pay accord to agree term , retrospective change to supply agreement , run a promotional activity at the supplier ' s expense , and much more . practice among supermarket show a wide variety of behaviour . seven of the retailer be judge to have improve or at least stay the same , with Sainsbury ' s come out on top with a net improvement score of 10 . 34 % . unfortunately , seven other — home Bargains , ASDA , Tesco , Ocado , Iceland , Morrisons and Amazon — be score as have worsen by vary degree , with Amazon ' s performance be judge to have worsen by a whopping 21 . 38 % . Amazon be also score as have comply with the code " consistently " or " mostly " only 46 . 96 % of the time . yesterday ' s Daily Telegraph report that ASDA be threaten a " price war " to regain the market share it have lose in recent year . for farmer , that be a chilling prospect . if supermarket be about to embark on a race to the bottom , we can be pretty sure that it will be farmer , not company executive or shareholder , who will be expect to take the hit . it be not for we in Parliament to pick a winner in a fight between supermarket , but they should know that we be watch . any supermarket that think it can rebuild its balance sheet on the back of Britain ' s farmer might find itself in front of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , and it well have some good answer when it get here . my Bill have support from mps across political party ; it be sponsor by Liberal Democrat , Labour , Conservative , Plaid Cymru , SNP , Green and Democratic Unionist Members . it also have wide geographical support , with sponsor from Shetland to Cornwall and across the four nation that make up the United Kingdom . I be grateful for the support I have receive from the farming union , the Country Land and Business Association , Scottish Land and Estates , the Tenant Farmers Association and the Countryside Alliance . that be a remarkable coalition of people who all understand that if we fail to act now , before too long there may be no industry leave to protect . Charles Paterson ' s family in Orkney still work the same land to this day . if we want to keep farming community alive for generation to come , however , we need to act now to make it happen . that be why the Bill be necessary and why I seek the leave of the House today to introduce it . question put and agree to . order , that Mr Alistair Carmichael , Jayne Kirkham , Sarah Bool , Jenny Riddell - Carpenter , Charlie Dewhirst , Sarah Dyke , Ann Davies , Seamus Logan , Ellie Chowns , Jim Shannon , David Chadwick and Tim Farron present the Bill . Mr Alistair Carmichael accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 20 June , and to be print ( Bill 203 ) . National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) bill for the purpose of supplement the order of 3 December 2024 ( National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) bill : Programme ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . subsequent stage ( 2 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 3 ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill consideration of Lords amendment I can confirm that Lords amendment 1 to 20 engage Commons financial privilege . have give careful consideration to Lords amendment 20 , I be satisfied that it would impose a charge on the public revenue that be not authorise by the money resolution pass by this House on 3 December 2024 . in accordance with Standing Order no . 78 ( 3 ) , that Lords amendment will therefore be deem to be disagree to and be not available for debate . lord amendment 20 deem to be disagree to ( Standing Order no . 78 ( 3 ) ) . clause 1 - rate of secondary Class 1 contribution I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . with this it will be convenient to consider Lords amendment 2 to 19 and 21 , and Government motion to disagree . I welcome the opportunity to consider the Lords amendment to the Bill . I thank Members of both Houses for their careful scrutiny and consideration of the Bill , and I place on record particular thank to the Financial Secretary to the Treasury , Lord Livermore , for his invaluable support and for so expertly lead the Bill through the other place . during consideration of the Bill in the other place , 21 amendment be make , 20 of which we will address today , but before I do so directly , let I remind both Houses of the context for the Bill . when we enter government , we inherit a fiscal situation that be completely unsustainable . we have have to take difficult but necessary decision to repair the public finance and rebuild our public service . the measure in the Bill represent some of the tough decision that we have have to take as a result . to restore fiscal responsibility and get public service back on their foot , we need to raise revenue , include through the measure that the Bill will introduce . many of the amendment from the other place put at risk the funding that the Bill seek to raise , so let I be absolutely clear : to support the amendment be also to support high borrowing , low spending or other tax rise . with that in mind , I now turn to the first group of Lords amendment . the Minister have talk about the growth mission , which be the Government ' s raison d ' ê tre , but last week we find out that the economy have shrink . have he do any work to find out how much that 0 . 1 % drop will cost the Government ? it will have huge tax implication . as I have set out to the hon . gentleman in a number of debate in recent week , the Government have have to take difficult but necessary decision to restore fiscal responsibility after the completely unsustainable situation that we inherit from the conservative party . that fiscal responsibility and economic stability be essential for great investment in the economy , which be the bedrock of the growth that we be so determined to pursue . will the Minister outline how many billion the Government will spend this year , what percentage £ 22 billion represent in that amount , and — if I may be so greedy as to ask an additional question , Mr Speaker — how much the flatlining of the economy have cost the government compare with that £ 22 billion ? I put it to the Minister that the impact of the national insurance contribution rise have be much great than that of the mythical £ 22 billion allege by the Government . I be not clear from the right hon . Gentleman ' s intervention whether he finally accept that we inherit a £ 22 billion black hole when we enter government . I know that several of his colleague have seek to rewrite history , but the fact be there . we inherit a completely unsustainable fiscal situation , with pressure and a £ 22 billion black hole , and we have to take difficult but necessary decision to remedy that . it be important to do so , because without the basic fiscal responsibility and economic stability that a Government should deliver , investment , which be the basis for growth , will not happen . the Minister speak about fact . be he aware of the fact that when the Labour party win the election , the economy be grow , and be he aware of the fact that it be now shrink ? I be very aware of the fact that we inherit an economy and a fiscal situation in a mess . that be completely unsustainable , and it be our duty as a Government to address it . no responsible Government could have let thing carry on as they be , with the fiscal situation the way it be . that be why we take the action we do . will the Minister give way ? I will not , as I have already give way several time and must make progress . we have to take those decision to put the fiscal responsibility back at the heart of government , to return economic stability to the public finance , and to have the basis for the investment on which we can grow the economy and put more money in people ' s pocket . lord amendment 1 , 4 , 5 , 9 and 13 relate to the NHS and social care provider . the amendment seek to maintain the employer national insurance contribution rate and threshold at their current level for nhs - commission service , include GPs , dentist , social care provider and pharmacist , as well as those provide hospice care . as member of both Houses will know , as a result of the measure in this Bill and wide Budget measure , the NHS will receive an extra £ 22 . 6 billion over two year , help to deliver an additional 40 , 000 elective appointment every week . primary care provider — general practice , dentistry , pharmacy and eye care — be important independent contractor that provide nearly £ 20 billion - worth of NHS service . every year , the Government consult the general practice and pharmacy sector . one question raise regularly in my constituency relate to GP surgery . the national insurance contribution will hit they immensely hard . GPs tell I that their only choice be to reduce staff and cut back appointment . the Minister mention £ 22 billion extra for the NHS , but if GP surgery and health clinic be reduce staff and reduce their capacity to deliver service , be that not a step down in what be deliver in my constituency and beyond ? will he reconsider the measure give the impact on GP surgery ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the question of GPs and the funding and support that the Government be provide they . we be invest an additional £ 889 million in general practice , which bring the total spend on the GP contract to £ 13 . 2 billion in 2025 - 26 . that be the big increase in over a decade . the change to the contract will improve service for patient and help to make progress towards the Government ' s health mission — shift from analogue to digital , from sickness to prevention , and from hospital to community care — as set out in the Prime Minister ' s plan for change . that support for GPs be an essential part of what the Budget , include the national insurance measure we be debate , deliver . Age UK in my constituency have tell I that the employer nic rise will cost it £ 50 , 000 a year . do the Minister agree that it be impossible to improve the public sector by tax the public sector ? we inherit public service that be on their knee and need urgent support . part of the reason why we take the difficult but necessary decision at the Budget last October be , of course , to restore fiscal responsibility , but it be also to get public service back on their foot . that be not just about the public service that people across the UK enjoy ; it be also about ensure that we have the stability for economic growth . if we do not have a health service that work well , we do not have a healthy population who can go to work . if we do not have a transport system that work well , people can not get to work . that investment to get public service back on their foot after 14 year of conservative control be essential for the experience of people in the UK , but it will also ensure that we have the economic growth that will enable we to put more money in people ' s pocket . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make a little progress . I have speak about GPs , but the Department of Health and Social Care have enter into consultation with Community Pharmacy England regard the 2024 - 25 and 2025 - 26 community pharmacy contractual framework . the final funding settlement will be announce in the usual way , follow the consultation . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way yet again . the National Pharmacy Association announce for the first time ever , in 104 year , that it be plan action by reduce service because of the implication of the Budget . one of its request be the release of an independent report commission by NHS England on the future funding of pharmacy . now that the Government be in charge of NHS England , will the Minister ask his colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to release that report before the consultation finish , so that the public and the pharmacy can see exactly what the financial situation in that independent report will be ? report on work that the Department of Health and Social Care be carry out be a subject for Ministers in that Department , but on the funding that I be speak about , the final funding settlement will be announce in the usual way , follow the consultation that be under way . the NHS in England invest around £ 3 billion every year on dentistry , and NHS pharmaceutical , ophthalmic and dental allocation for integrate care system for 2025 - 26 have be publish , alongside NHS planning and guidance . on social care , the Government have provide a cash increase in core local government spending power of 6 . 8 % in 2025 - 26 , include £ 880 million of new grant funding provide to social care — funding that can be use to address the range of pressure face the adult social care sector . the figure that the Minister be present , along with the answer that he give to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , and similar to the Prime Minister , involve money go into sector that will not mitigate the national insurance rise . will he confirm that sector such as hospice , social care , GPs and pharmacy will have some support , rather than tell we about money that be not go to help people with regard to the job tax that be come in ? the various organisation or service that I be talk about , whether GPs , pharmacy or organisation that provide social care , receive money from Government , and the way that those discussion take place be by consider pressure on the provider of those service in the round — that be the way the negotiation take place . direct support for employer national insurance contribution obviously apply to central Government , local government and public corporation , which be much the same way that the previous Government approach thing under the health and social care levy . pressure on social care or GPs , as I have be outline , be consider in the round in term of their funding settlement , and as I say , the £ 880 million of new grant funding can be use to address a range of pressure face adult social care . the hon . Gentleman make an interesting point , but let we look at child ' s hospice , which will be down £ 4 . 9 million . Most funding for child ' s hospice do not come from the government ; it come from community and from people support they . can the Minister , at the Dispatch Box , assure child ' s hospice such as Acorns in the west midland that they will not be down the money that they will be lose through extra ni contribution , and that that £ 4 . 9 million will be replace by the Government for child ' s hospice ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for mention hospice , and perhaps I may set out the Government ' s position on hospice and some of today ' s amendment . the Government recognise the vital role that hospice play in support people at the end of life , and their family , and they also recognise the range of cost pressure that the hospice sector have be face over a number of year . we be support the hospice sector with a £ 100 million increase for adult and child ' s hospice , to ensure that they have the good physical environment for care , and £ 26 million of revenue to support hospice for child and young people . the £ 100 million will go towards help hospice to improve their building , equipment and accommodation , to ensure that patient continue to receive the good possible care . the point that Opposition Members be try to emphasise be that the Government appear to be give with one hand , but take away with the other . the hospice sector be just one example of many sector that have be adversely affect by the Government ' s cruel tax . as I say a few moment ago , the way that the Government support central government , local government and public corporation — that be Departments and other public sector employer — be the same way that the previous Government respond to the health and social care levy . that be a standard way in which the Government offer support for employer national insurance cost . rise — I will make some progress . will the Minister give way on that point ? no , I will make some progress . the Government want to shift healthcare out of hospital and into the community , to ensure that patient and their family receive personalise care in the most appropriate setting . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . southern Area hospice , which be locate just outside my constituency , have to raise £ 3 . 6 million per year , or £ 300 , 000 per month . it be not government fund , as have be mention , so what reassurance can the Minister give to those currently use Southern Area hospice for end of life care that the Government will do the right thing and support our hospice by not include they in the increase to national insurance contribution ? I have explain how the Government be approach employer national insurance contribution and the support that they offer for central Government , local government and public corporation . that be an establish way of respond to change to employer national insurance contribution , which the previous Government do — rise — the right hon . Gentleman be be so persistent . he must have an amazing point to make , so I will give way to he . I wait with bated breath . it be an amazing point , and I hope that the hon . Gentleman will get it , because it be clear that the Prime Minister do not get it at Prime Minister ' s question . let ' s tell the real truth : the money that be be give by the Government — taxpayer ' money — to child ' s hospice such as Shooting Star and Demelza hospice , be for building . the national insurance increase be directly hit the people who do the work on which very sick child depend . why be that imposition be make ? the £ 100 million that the right hon . Gentleman allude to be important funding to help hospice improve their building , equipment and accommodation , to ensure that patient receive the good care possible . as I say a few moment ago , there will be £ 26 million of revenue to support child and young people ' s hospice . more widely , the Government provide for charity , include hospice , through the wide tax regime , which be among the most generous in the world . that include tax relief for charity and their donor worth just over £ 6 billion for the tax year to April 2024 . finally , as the right hon . Gentleman will know , all charity , include hospice that be set up as charity , can benefit from the employment allowance that the Bill more than double , from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 . that will benefit charity of all size , particularly the small . the Minister know that that be fund for one year , and mainly for building , as he have admit . this will be a cost on hospice every single year go forward . it will be cumulative and mean that hospice have to ask their community for more and more , just to give that basic help . will he commit to fund child ' s hospice by the £ 4 . 9 million that the Government be take off they every year , or not — yes or no ? the point I be make before I give way to the right hon . Gentleman be recurrent feature of the tax system . the support through the tax regime for charity and their donor , which be worth more than £ 6 billion in April 2024 , be a feature of the system that happen every year . the increase in the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 , which will benefit hospice that be set up as charity , be a permanent change that we be make through the Bill . as be evident to many hon . member , the Minister have , for the first time , find himself unable to answer some very straightforward question from Opposition Members about the difference between the allocation of funding for capital expenditure and for current expenditure , and the impact that that difference will have on our hospice , child ' s hospice , GPs and other affect by labour ' s job tax . I be sure member of the House of Lords who bring these amendment back will also have notice that the Minister have be unable to answer those question . prior to the Bill go back to the House of Lords , will the Minister agree to speak to the Chancellor or the Chief Secretary to the Treasury to get a clear answer to the question that have be raise today about which money will be available for capital and which money will be available to offset the national insurance charge increase ? I be sorry that the hon . Gentleman feel that I be be unclear — I think I be be perfectly clear on the Government ' s position . he may not agree with that position — he be entitle not to — but on the employer national insurance contribution change I have be very clear that the Government will provide support directly to central Government , local government and public corporation , such as Departments and other public sector employer , as be the case under his Government with the health and social care levy . that do not apply to GPs , dentist , hospice and the other organisation that we have be discuss today . the important point that I be make , which I hope be clear to he and his colleague on the Conservative Benches , be about the wide support that the Government be provide to hospice , the funding that we be provide to GPs and the discussion we be have with other primary care provider . that be the context in which the Bill have to be see . we be able to take decision around funding for public service because of the difficult decision that we take at the Budget last year , and this Bill implement one of those decision . at Prime Minister ' s question early today , it be noticeable that when the Prime Minister ask the Leader of the opposition whether she would reverse the national insurance contribution rise that we be bring in through the Bill , she refuse to commit to that . I be unclear exactly what the conservative position be — [ interruption . ] rise — I think one of the Conservative Members say that he will update I in his speech later . I may have misheard he , but I think I hear he say that he will confirm later whether the opposition will reverse the national insurance change we be make , so I look forward to that update . will the Minister explain to the House how it be right for the Government to cover the extra national insurance contribution of those work in the public sector , for example in hospital provision , but it be not right to do that for those work in hospice , in end of life care ? how can that circle be square ? why will they cover the national insurance contribution for those work in hospital that be treat people , but not for those work in hospice that deliver end of life care ? the fundamental principle be about which organisation the Government will support in response to the change to national insurance contribution . the approach the Government be take , which be in line with the approach take by the previous Government in the health and social care levy , be for the Government to provide support for Departments and other public sector employer for additional employer national insurance contribution . as I say to the hon . member for North Bedfordshire ( Richard Fuller ) , that mean central Government , public corporation and local government . primary care provider be independent contractor and will therefore not be exempt from the change . the Minister make the point that this be secondary for primary care provider . however , he do not acknowledge that primary care provider still do not know how they will be compensate by the Government , as I hear from dentist , community pharmacy and social care provider in my constituency . we be very close to the start of the tax year and those small business be provide critical primary care service in our community . how can they operate when the Minister obfuscate and say other people might talk to they at a later stage about the money that they might receive ? would it not be easy for the Minister to accept the Liberal Democrat amendment from the House of Lords and clear up this matter today ? for clarity , primary care provider who be independent contractor will not receive the direct support that the Government provide to Departments and other public sector employer . the pressure that those provider face be consider in the round before funding be provide to they , so the solution be arrive at in a different way from the way suggest by the hon . Gentleman . as I set out early , the revenue raise by the decision set out in the Bill will help fund public service , include those provide by the NHS and other social care provider . the amendment would put much of that funding at risk , so to support these amendment be to support high borrowing , low spending or other tax rise . what advice can the Minister give Thames hospice and Alexander Devine child ' s hospice service in Maidenhead , which be look at a £ 300 , 000 and £ 50 , 000 increase in bill respectively ? be he say that they should cut service , or be he expect resident in our constituency to raise more money for they , for it to be give directly back to the Chancellor ? I do not know the situation of those hospice , so I will not give they direct advice on manage their operation . more generally , I have set out the Government ' s approach to provide direct support for Departments and other public sector employer . it depend how hospice care be provide . in many case , integrate care board be responsible for commission palliative and end of life care service to meet the need of local population . where hospice be commission by the NHS , contractual arrangement should be discuss with the integrate care board at local level . the Minister have a capital budget and revenue budget . we be talk about a small amount of money — £ 4 million or £ 5 million — so will he consider switch £ 4 million or £ 5 million from the capital budget to the revenue budget ? open up that opportunity would have merit , and would help these very vulnerable organisation . I have set out the Government ' s approach to support Departments and other public sector employee when it come to the change to employer national insurance contribution . as I say to the shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the hon . member for North Bedfordshire , we be take the same approach that his Government take to the health and social care levy . we be talk about the wide pressure face by organisation , be they gps or hospice , and what we can do to support they and their process . we be consider the pressure on they in the round . I have make a considerable number of point about Lords amendment 1 , 4 , 5 , 9 and 13 . in the light of those point , I urge the House to disagree with those amendment . I turn to the Lords amendment relate to charity , local government and special educational need transport . lord amendment 2 , 7 , 12 and 16 seek to exempt charity from the change to employer national insurance contribution rate and threshold . the Government recognise the crucial role that charity play in our society . we recognise the need to protect the small charity ; that be why we have more than double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 pound , mean that more than half of business , include charity with national insurance liability , either gain or will see no change next year . as I have note , it be important to recognise that all charity can benefit from the employment allowance . the Government provide wide support for charity via the tax regime ; tax relief for charity and their donor be worth just over £ 6 billion in the tax year to April 2024 . again , the amendment would put much of the funding that the Bill seek to raise for public service at risk , so support these amendment be support for high borrowing , low spending or other tax rise . after yesterday ' s announcement about benefit change and benefit cut , the Government have say that they want more people to go into work . a lot of help to get people into work be deliver by charity , so we be expect a great need for such charity . how will they cope if they be be tax through further nic ? they will have to reduce their service and their ability to provide support , so there will be a gap in the market . will the Minister explain how the Government intend to bridge that gap ? I thank the hon . gentleman for draw attention to the very important reform that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions set out in this House yesterday , which be a crucial part of get people back into work . further detail on intervention to help people back into work will be set out . we recognise that charity may , in some case , provide that support , which be why many of the element of support for charity in the tax regime remain so generous . there be £ 6 billion for tax relief for charity and their donor in the tax year to April 2024 through feature that will continue in the tax year that we be enter . the employment allowance be more than double from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 , which will benefit all charity in this country . charity , particularly small charity , will benefit directly from change that we have make to the employment allowance . [ interruption . ] sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker — I think you be go to intervene on I . the Minister be make a lengthy contribution ; I be just wait for a conclusion . in that case , I will not take any more intervention , and I will make speedy progress . I will address Lords amendment 3 , 6 , 11 and 15 , which relate to employer who provide transport for child with special educational need . in the Budget and the recent provisional local government finance settlement , the Government announce £ 2 billion of grant funding for local government in ' 25 - 26 , which include £ 515 million to support council with the increase in employer national insurance contribution . that funding be not ringfence , and it be for local authority to determine how to use it across relevant service and responsibility . lord amendment 8 , 10 , 14 and 17 to 19 together seek to maintain the current threshold for business employ few than 25 member of staff . when it come to protect the small business , the Government be take action through this Bill by increase the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 , as I have say . that mean that next year , 865 , 000 employer will pay no national insurance at all , and more than half will see no change , or will gain overall as a result of this package . finally , Lords amendment 21 would require the Government to conduct assessment on the economic and sectoral impact of the Bill . as we have discuss previously in this place , the Government have already publish an assessment of this policy in a tax information and impact note publish by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . that note state that as a result of the Bill , around 250 , 000 employer will see their secondary class 1 national insurance contribution liability decrease , and around 940 , 000 employer will see it increase . around 820 , 000 employer will see no change . the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s economic and fiscal outlook also set out the expect macroeconomic impact of the change to employer national insurance contribution . I hope that hon . and right hon . member will understand why we be not support these amendment from the other place . through this Bill , the Government be make difficult but necessary decision in order to fix the public finance and get public service back on their foot . the amendment from the other place require information that have already be provide , do not recognise other policy that the Government have in place and , most seriously , undermine the funding that this Bill seek to secure . I therefore respectfully propose that this House disagree with the amendment , and urge all hon . and right hon . member to support the Government on that disagreement . rise — order . this debate have to conclude within two hour of its start , so we will have a six - minute time limit , other than for Front - Bench Members . I call the shadow Minister . I rise on behalf of the official Opposition in support of Lords amendment 1 to 4 , 8 , 10 , 14 and 21 . before I dive into the detail , I want to get a little nostalgic . one year and six day ago , I open second reading of the National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) Act 2024 , which cut national insurance for some 29 million work people across the country . what a difference a year make . at the end of my speech that day , I pose a simple question to the shadow Minister , now the Exchequer Secretary , which be really bug I at the time : how will labour pay for all its many spending commitment ? I ask specifically what taxis Labour would put up , and call for Labour to just be straight with the british people . alas , no straight answer be forthcoming , but now we know the answer , don ' t we ? it be just a shame that Labour give it to we only after the general election . Labour promise not to raise national insurance , and that it be on the side of british business . it say that it would deliver economic growth ; how be that go ? the fact be that the Chancellor be deliver a £ 25 billion tax rise on job across the country . that will stifle growth , hold back british business , and harm public service . this labour national insurance Bill will , unbelievably , take the tax burden to its high level in history on the back of work people . we be debate a series of amendment table and vote through in the other place with the aim of mitigate at least some of the damage to three vital part of our economy and our community : healthcare provider , charity and small business . lord amendment 1 , 3 and 4 seek to exempt from the measure care provider , NHS GP practice , NHS - commission dentist and pharmacist , provider of transport for child with special educational need and disability and charitable provider of health and social care , such as hospice , as we have hear . that be because we have be warn that as a direct result of the national insurance tax hike , we could see few gp appointment , reduce access to NHS dentistry , community pharmacy closing , adult and local authority pay more for social care , and young work family be hit with even high childcare cost . we have to avoid that . would the hon . member reverse this national insurance tax change ? what spending would he cut to do so ? if the hon . Gentleman look back at the record of proceeding on early stage of the Bill , he will see that we vote against it . if he look at our record in government , he will see that we cut national insurance for 29 million people across the country . as I have say so many time in this place , why be we not debate the Government ' s creation of an £ 8 billion quango in Great British Energy ? why be they spend £ 7 billion on a rebrand of the UK Infrastructure Bank ? why be they spend £ 9 billion on give up our sovereignty to Mauritius ? let we start with those discussion ; we can then have a real debate . lord amendment 2 recognise the role that the voluntary sector play in the provision of essential service by seek to exempt charity with an annual revenue of less than £ 1 million from the national insurance rate rise . charity with an income of less than £ 1 million make up some 95 % of register charity and undertake vital work in all our community , yet this Chancellor will force charity staff and volunteer across the sector to raise £ 1 . 4 billion more to cover this tax rise next year alone . support this Lords amendment would prevent so many service provide by the third sector from be reduce , or even remove altogether . lord amendment 8 , 10 and 14 seek to exempt the small business — those with few than 25 full - time employee — from the propose cut to the threshold at which an employer be require to pay secondary class 1 national insurance . the hon . member mention small business . local hairdresser in my constituency have be in touch with I to say that give the difficult economic picture , these nic rise will mean that they can not take on apprentice this year . do he agree that this nic rise be a tax not just on business , but on education ? absolutely . to be fair , I do not think the profound impact of this tax be appreciate by Labour Front Benchers . the hon . Lady have point out yet another area in which it will have an impact — tax on education . I could talk about the impact on university as well . do my hon . friend think that the Government have assess the loss of tax revenue that will result from this measure ? in North Yorkshire , almost all of the job that would have be create in small business over the come year be now be repress , lead to a loss of income for the Exchequer . to answer simply , I do not think the Government do that assessment before announce this tax rise , but with plummet business confidence , decline economic growth and forecast for economic growth that be consistently downgrade , the profound impact on business and growth — as I be say — be clear for all to see . I listen carefully to your answer to the Minister ' s question about what you would cut if this change be to be reverse . you have not be clear about whether you would reverse it , but I listen carefully to the answer , and what I hear you say — [ interruption . ] I be so sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker . the shadow Minister refer to GB Energy and the National Wealth Fund . will he clarify whether he be really say that he want to reverse record level of investment in energy infrastructure and innovation job , and in job across this country , to stabilise our economy into the future ? I remind hon . member that intervention should not be short speech . the hon . Lady be absolutely right ; look at the Chair should hopefully prevent she from say the word " you " repeatedly . the problem with that intervention be that the chairman of GB Energy himself disagree about the number of job that it will supposedly be create . I have set out clearly some of the thing that we would do differently , and the different choice we would make from the choice this Labour Government be make . when we talk about small business , and about the impact of this national insurance tax increase on business as a whole , the Minister and other Labour Members incorrectly suggest that only the large business will be force to pay this job tax . as I have tell they consistently in every debate we have have on this Bill , that be simply not the case . village butcher , high street hair salon and community pharmacy be not what most people would regard as large business , yet business such as those will be hit . if the Government really want to ensure that our small business be exempt from at least part of this damaging tax , they should support the Lords amendment that be before we today . we know that the Minister be have to defend the undefendable — he have get a certain Matt Hancock about he in how he do it with zeal . [ interruption . ] sorry , Madam Deputy Speaker . do the shadow Minister agree that the people who be pay for these increase be taxpayer ? they be people who be work hard . I be talk to a manufacturing business in my constituency that be go to give its employee a 4 . 5 % pay increase , but can now only afford to give they a 2 % increase . this money be come out of the pocket of hard - work people . I remind hon . member that language should be respectful at all time . the jungle await the Minister , clearly . my right hon . friend be absolutely right ; in fact , the OBR have clearly demonstrate in its analysis that 76 % of this tax increase will be pass on to work people . that be a manifesto breach if ever I see one . not only that — the Institute for Fiscal Studies have make clear that this tax increase will not just have an impact on work people . it be the lowest - pay people in our country who will be pay for it , which be another under - appreciate and under - comment fact for the Labour party . it be bad than that , be it not ? the money that be be pay to bail out Demelza and Shooting Star child ' s hospice be be generously donate by people who have already pay tax . those work people be effectively be tax twice on the money they be generously give to support some of the most needy child in this country — needy in term of health . be that not absolutely appalling ? yes , it be . my right hon . friend be exactly right ; the Government be give a small amount with one hand and take a large amount with the other , but the bottom line be that it be all taxpayer ' money . it be a double tax on those people who now face the brunt of this tax increase . will the shadow Minister give way ? I will make some progress , if the hon . Gentleman will allow I , and then give way . this tax , purely and simply , be a financial penalty on 940 , 000 business — that be how I look at it . the analysis show that it be go to cost business an average of £ 26 , 000 per year per employer . not content with ruin farmer ’ future through the immoral family farm tax , the Chancellor want to hammer they with this Bill , too . she be go to make pub , caf é s and restaurant stump up more to cover her job tax , without regard for the impact on our high street or the community they serve . she be go to squeeze the creative industry , from theatre to film producer , in a desperate attempt to keep this circus on the road . it be crucial that we understand the impact that the Bill will have . that be why Lords amendment 21 require the Chancellor to carry out a review within six month of the Bill ' s impact on the sector I have describe as well as on farming , creative industry , hospitality , retail and university . the shadow Minister have mention caf é s , and when we have be debate this point previously in the House , I have mention Basil ' s caf é in Tunbridge Wells . it now inform I that it be have to put its price up because of the NIC rise . do the shadow Minister think that we be go to see a bump in the inflation figure as a result of this tax ? I remind the House that inflation have already go from 2 % to 3 % under this Labour Government , and in fact , the OBR score the Hallowe ' en Budget as inflationary . the hon . Gentleman be right that when these tax rise hit , they will be pass on through high price . I hope that that will not put pressure on inflation , but it will inevitably do so . the combination of factor and how they be affect business , include caf é s , be not always appreciate either . the national living wage be go up . conservative Members have welcome that — we implement the national living wage — but it be about the context in which it be go up : national insurance be on the rise and business rate relief for hospitality business and high street business be be reduce from 70 % to 40 % . all those thing be compound the impact on caf é s , such as the one in the constituency of the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) . they will be devastate , inevitably lead to job freeze or job loss , which I will come to . from healthcare to charity and small and medium - sized enterprise , I have make the consequence of this Bill clear since it begin its stage in the House . today , the Government have one more chance to change course , because what many people across the country want to know be this . what be this Bill for ? we be tell that it be a one - off tax rise to fix the foundation of the economy . we be tell that there would be no more tax rise after this , yet we find ourselves just a week away from an emergency Budget , with speculation rife that other taxis may have to rise because the Chancellor will not meet her own new fiscal rule . some be suggest that Labour will break another pre - election promise and not unfreeze the income tax threshold in 2028 , but will rather extend the freeze to pay down their new debt . that surely can not be true — the Minister himself give I his personal assurance in this House that income tax threshold would be unfrozen from 2028 . I would like he to reconfirm that promise to I today , in order to end the speculation . this be vital context for member as we consider the amendment before we today . if more tax rise will be need — if the original justification for this Bill be now void — why should we stomach the Bill ' s terrible consequence ? why should Labour mp have to go out and defend this to their constituent ? why should we allow the Government to punish the sector that the amendment before we seek to protect ? in fact , why must we stand here and see this entire Bill implement at all ? one impact that hit every sector of our economy be the impact on job . just yesterday , we hear Labour talk about the importance of lift people out of welfare and get they back into work , and it be right to do that . as conservative , we know that the dignity of work and the security of a regular pay cheque be what lift we up as a country and lift family out of poverty . the tragedy be that this Bill have cause so much concern and so much uncertainty that employment be already decline in anticipation of its passing . the Office for Budget Responsibility tell we that the Bill will depress workforce participation for year to come . put simply , this Government be cut welfare to boost employment , while at the same time boost taxis , which will cut job . no wonder business confidence have completely and utterly nose - dive . it be inexplicable and entirely avoidable . the shadow Minister say it be inexplicable , and I agree that on the face of it , it be . however , be one possible explanation for fiscal misadventure on this scale not that the Government Benches be fill with people who have scarcely any understanding of the real economy , much less what it mean to try to start , run and sustain a business ? that be right , and it be an important point , because the decision make by this Government be have such a profound impact on people in the real economy . I simply say to the british public that if they be unhappy with the decision be make , they have to change the people make they . [ interruption . ] unbelievably , I be get heckled on that point . the hon . member for Hamilton and Clyde Valley ( Imogen Walker ) should get out and talk to the average businessperson in her constituency . she might quieten down significantly . the Minister imply that the Government have no choice , and he still seek to ask I what the Conservatives would do differently . other on the Government Benches be try that , imply that there be no other alternative . the Minister should look at the £ 70 billion of wasteful spending commitment that I have already list , include the quango , such as GB Energy , the pay - off to the union without any reform or productivity gain , and the billion of pound be surrender as part of the surrender deal to Mauritius . we have growth on the decline and inflation , debt and unemployment on the rise . we have a Chancellor on the brink , and confidence crumbling . we may not be able to kill this Bill , but we have our chance now to dent the damage . I urge Ministers and Members across the House to do the right thing and to support these amendment . rise — due to the length of Front - Bench contribution , Back Benchers be now limit to five minute . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to rise to speak to Lords amendment 1 to 19 . I want to speak about what make a good tax system and , in particular , optimal tax theory , which be a topic that be as thrill to I as it be no doubt to the entire Chamber . a good tax system be define by neutrality , simplicity and stability , as set out in the Mirrlees review . a tax system design along those three principle will raise the maximum revenue with the minimum economic impact . each of the amendment in isolation might seem reasonable , but together they introduce individual exemption that make our tax system less neutral , less simple and less stable . the amendment would make our tax system bad . today , we be discuss raise national insurance contribution from the large employer to fix our broken public service and invest in our prosperity . three quarter of that £ 23 billion of investment be from the rich 2 % of business , while we be reduce contribution from the 250 , 000 small business . the hon . member talk about simplicity . if that be the case , why be the Government split the nic ? they could have introduce an increase on employee at the same time as the increase on employer , but they have decide not to do that . that would have be a simple measure to raise taxis , without create this complication . how do that tally with his theory ? it be a pretty well establish introduction to the tax system to have both employee and employer nic . the point about simplicity be about where the tax be levied . I will come to the specific point that the hon . member raise later in my speech and hopefully provide some illumination . the revenue we be raise will be use to invest in our nation ' s prosperity : insulate our home , rebuild our crumble school and hire more nurse to care for our love one . it be about get cost down and create good job . it be about rebuild this country after , frankly , more than a decade of despondency and despair . the amendment before we represent bad policy that put that at risk . as I may have mention in this House once or twice before , I use to be an economist . I can tell the House that a good tax be one that raise revenue and do not introduce perverse incentive . a good tax ensure that resource go to activity because there be high level of productivity . a good tax system introduce three principle . the first be neutrality : it treat similar activity in similar way . the second be simplicity : it be straightforward and easy to implement . the third be stability : it be predictable . the hon . Member be talk about productivity and growth . how do he square that with the additional tax on early year care ? that care allow parent to work . if parent can not work and employer can not afford to bring young people through , how be we go to get the nation work ? nursery be on their knee and they can not take on more child , because there be strict rule about ratio and the amount of space each child take . first , there be more funding go into the early year , but I will deal with the tax side as I speak to the specific amendment . each amendment seek to carve out an exemption for something , and I be sure that member across the House identify with and , indeed , support some of those individual exemption . however , if we be to pass the amendment , they would give specified sector advantage not enjoy by other . it seem to I that the hon . member ' s issue be not with some of the amendment , but with all of they take together . why do not he not back some of the amendment ? I do not , because that would introduce exemption and perverse incentive and make the tax system less clear . it would make the tax system as a whole less efficient . I will come to the specific way shortly . let we start with non - neutrality . lord amendment 7 , 12 and 16 would create non - neutrality between small charity and non - charity . that would incentivise more social enterprise to be charity instead of business . lord amendment 8 , 10 and 14 would create an additional nic band for small business , thereby disincentivise they from grow . under those amendment , if a business see its revenue go over £ 1 million or it employ more than 25 people , all of a sudden it would incur a NICs charge . that be a cliff edge . it would introduce a perverse incentive and reduce productivity and economic growth . I be pleased that the hon . Member be talk about growth . he talk about perverse incentive . what possible kind of perverse incentive could he have in mind when remove a job tax from a child ' s hospice , which care for child and family go through the most unspeakable heartbreak ? where be the perverse incentive in that ? as I think I have set out , the question be not about carve out an exemption for this establishment or that establishment ; it be about how we create a tax system overall that be simple and efficient . it be about ensure that business and other organisation be operate more efficiently . I say this to the hon . member : when the Conservatives be in government , they do not propose abolish national insurance for all hospice . they should follow their argument to the end of the line . I will move on , as I be conscious of the time . the amendment would also reduce simplicity in the tax system . we be not exempt specific sector or , indeed , specific establishment from this tax . overall , Lords amendment 1 to 19 would complicate the tax system and reduce stability . raise rate be accept policy ; introduce special rate for specific sector or establishment be not . it would make for a less efficient tax system that be complicated to govern , expensive to enforce and more prone to fraud . this be not a predictable way of make tax policy . it be not neutral , it be not simple , and it be not stable . it be bad policy that all of we in the House should oppose . all this may sound dry , but it matter to our constituent . bad taxis do not just harm economic growth , but bring in less revenue . that mean few appointment in the NHS , it mean few new teacher , and it mean less insulation in our home . we be elect to this place as legislator . we have a duty to make policy that work , and that involve distinguish the whole from its part , ensure we do not introduce loophole and carve - out that weaken our tax system , and govern responsibly . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . notwithstanding what be say by the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , the Lords amendment be clearly not design with the aim of create a simple tax system . they have be send to we to consider because they may create a fairer society , and that , in my view , should be a drive force in our consideration of they today and in the work of this House . such be the strength of feeling in the other place that it have send we 21 amendment , and such be the strength of feeling on the liberal Democrat Benches that we will support every single one . take together , they offer exemption for health and care provider , for small charity with an annual revenue of less than £ 1 million , for transport provider , for child with special educational need and disability , and for small business with few than 25 employee . rowcroft hospice in my constituency be impact greatly by the Bill , as be Bay Care , an excellent social care provider . both those organisation be have to make challenging and difficult decision about how many people they can employ and how they can support people in their community . do my hon . friend share my fear that this will result in the shunting of cost on to our core NHS service ? I agree wholeheartedly with my hon . friend . one of the main problem with this particular measure be that it be so self - defeat . it be effectively rob Peter to pay Paul . I have say it once and I will say it again : this job tax be damaging to growth , and self - defeat for our health and care service . we Liberal Democrats have oppose it , and throughout the debate on the Bill we have suggest alternative way — fairer way — in which the Government could raise the same amount of revenue . we have also ask the Government , if they be indeed pursue this measure , at the very least to exempt health and care provider . the Government will not get hospital out of a financial hole by tax the GPs , dentist , pharmacy and care provider who prevent people from need to go to hospital in the first place . the Government will not alleviate the pressure on hospital by tax hospice , which will now be force to withdraw service from people who be try to die with independence and dignity in a setting of their choosing , rather than in a cramped hospital corridor or a sterile ward . the Government will not keep people out of hospital by levy a tax on the very health and care charity that provide vital service for those who be vulnerable — warm space , friendship for the isolated , financial advice , welfare support and social care . the Minister say that extra money would go into social care , but we know that the money allocate to it in the Budget be dwarf by the increase in national insurance contribution . we can not save the nhs unless we fix social care . there be many similar example , but Quantum Care in Hertfordshire , a not - for - profit social care business , say that its cost will rise by £ 1 . 7 million in national insurance contribution alone , which will also have an impact on council and social service . that be certainly not solve our health and social care problem . as a fellow Hertfordshire Member , I have meet representative of Quantum Care a number of time and have hear the same report as my hon . friend . this be extremely worrying for our social care provider , who be very clear about the impact that this measure will have . they will have to put up their cost , they will have to hand back contract to local authority , and they will not be able to provide the level of care that many vulnerable people require . the measure will also have a huge impact on small business and high street . as I have say before , high street be the most visual and visceral indicator of whether the economy be work in their area . if small business see their local high street go down the pan , they will lose confidence in their local economy . pub , hospitality company , retailer , beauty salon and day centre be the glue that hold our community together , but they be also the engine of local growth . small business be cry out for assistance . what make they feel so overwhelmed be the cumulative impact of all the measure that we be see from this government : the national insurance increase , the rise in business rate bill , and the new obligation that be impose by the Employment Rights Bill without the resource to manage they . throughout the passage of the Bill before we , we Liberal Democrats have set out alternative way for the Government to raise fund . the Government say that this measure will raise £ 25 billion for the NHS , but the Office for Budget Responsibility say that when behaviour change and reimbursement in the public sector be take into account , it will raise just £ 10 billion . we believe that that money could be raise from different source , from the digital service tax to the gaming tax to reform capital gain tax so that it be fair and raise more money than it can currently raise because of the way in which the Government have address it . this measure will destroy growth , decimate part of our high street , and cause vulnerable people to lose out on vital service . that be why we Liberal Democrats have oppose the increase in the job tax , and it be why we ask for , at the very least , an exemption for our valuable health and care provider . lord amendment 21 call for a review of this policy . I will come to the practical reason for my opposition to it shortly , but first I want to focus on the cause of the problem and the cause of today ' s debate . the last government preside over economic chaos , scare business away from long - term investment . the last Government fail to invest in the skill that be require in the vital sector about which we have be hear today . the last Government leave the NHS on its knee , in desperate need of long - term investment . it will be hard to take the serious step that will put the country back on its foot , but I believe that the measure we be debate today be necessary . what a contrast we see now : a Government laser - focus on economic stability , a Government determine to invest in skill for the future , a Government who be already reduce the NHS waiting list thank to a £ 23 billion investment . that be the outcome of this policy , which be part of a package of measure to stabilise our economy and enable we to invest in public service . I have to admit that I have be strike by the passion and commitment of member on both side of the House who have speak about important public service . I talk to representative of those service regularly myself , and I firmly believe that the investment that this Government will be able to make in childcare , in early year , in breakfast club , in the NHS and back into local government , where it need to be , will in the round create the more sustainable public service that we so desperately need . on the practical reason why I oppose Lords amendment 21 , the OBR have already consider the implication of this policy — will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not give way . Jobs datum be already publicly available that will enable everybody to analyse the impact of this policy , and there have be a detailed assessment of it by HMRC . I firmly believe that this amendment will not deliver on the objective that our country need . I rise to speak in support of the Lords amendment , and I direct the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I want to talk about the service that be so integral to our community , because they be the one on which our constituent rely . I be talk about GP surgery , dental practice and pharmacy . I be also talk about our community hospice ; the charity hospice that care for our love one through the most difficult and heartbreaking of time ; the hospice that our constituent work so hard to raise fund to keep go . include our child ' s hospice . I listen very hard to what the Minister say , and he talk really dispassionately about difficult decision . have he no shame ? this be a choice , and the Government have choose to impose this job tax on child ' s hospice and the service that support family go through the most unimaginably difficult and painful of time . my hon . friend speak with so much knowledge and passion , and she be a real advocate for her constituent . when we look across the Chamber , we see that the Labour Benches be threadbare . be that not testament to the fact that Labour be actually try to defend the indefensible ? that be absolutely right . there be over 400 Labour mp , but just four of they be sit there to try to defend this indefensible job tax on our most vulnerable . they should be utterly ashamed of themselves . do they not have child ' s hospice in their constituency ? do they not have hospice and other setting that their constituent work so hard to raise fund for ? they should be absolutely ashamed of themselves . perhaps I may suggest an easy decision , rather than a difficult one ? the Government , instead of give £ 9 billion away to Mauritius , should use some of that to support social care and charity . that would be an excellent decision , and I be sure the Naomi House child ' s hospice and Jacksplace , which do so much invaluable work to support family go through the most unspeakable difficulty in my area , would advocate for that . I want to talk about childcare setting , which ensure that our small but most cherished family member be care for and give the very good possible start in life . it be incomprehensible that the Government have take this decision to imperil some of the business and service that our constituent most rely on — nursing home , for example . the owner of one nursing home , with 35 year of service in the Gosport constituency , tell I that the tax rise in the Budget will add £ 90 , 000 on top of its annual cost . this business be particularly vulnerable because a very large proportion of its bed space be occupy by local authority patient . its cost be go to go up by 12 % this year , drive mostly by change to the minimum wage and this job tax — the national insurance contribution change — on his 75 member of staff . the council , which be have difficulty of its own , can provide only a 4 % uplift to cover it . quite simply , this an existential threat to his business , and he be not alone . it be the elderly , the vulnerable , disabled people and their family who be go to pay the price , and we know that these cost will go to those have to foot the bill . if people be not privately fund , some nursing home will be force to hand back their local authority contract and increase the proportion of bed commission privately . since the Budget , I have receive message from individual who have already see the cost of care go through the roof . one write to I : " directly due to the increase in Employers National Insurance contribution the Chancellor have manage to cause an increase of 7 . 8 % in my brother ' s care home fee that be already north of £ 8000 a month … I shudder to think of the overall cost nationally of this increase across all those with relative and love one in care . " I also want to talk about early year setting . early year provider be face a squeeze that many just will not be able to stomach . just as care setting have their revenue dictate by local government , nursery be limit by childcare ratio and the fee they get from their local authority for their 30 hour ' free childcare . hopscotch nursery , which look after 1 , 900 child across my region , have tell I that these change will add £ 1 million to its overhead . it say that , in order to make up the shortfall , it be go to have to put its fee up by 10 % , and that 10 % will be pass on to my Gosport constituent . how can parent in Gosport face such an uptick in fee ? what assessment have the Government make of the impact that will have on parent , on people drop out of the job market or out of the workforce , and , most especially , on woman ? at the end of the day , we all know that when it come to childcare , rightly or wrongly , the buck always stop with we . what will be the disproportionate impact of this on woman ? I could mention so many other organisation that be face the prospect of scale back their activity . they include hair and beauty salon , which be warn that this will result in billion of pound lose , and many will shut up shop or encourage staff to go freelance . they have previously take on so many apprentice , but they warn that by 2027 there will be no apprenticeship leave in this sector because they will be too expensive . the common thread be that this national insurance change will hit business for which labour be the high cost and there be no digital solution , and business that be unable to find efficiency because of the nature of their overhead . the amendment pass in the Lords would go some way towards alleviate those cost pressure . in many case , they would be a lifeline for the business and service that our constituent so desperately rely on , and those that by their very nature be reliant on the public sector for revenue . I urge the Minister to change his mind , to show some compassion , to show he care , to listen to his constituent and to support these amendment . I be on record previously as call for more support for hospice , but I have be contact by a number of constituent about the issue of home - to - school transport for pupil with special educational need and disability . that relate to Lords amendment 3 , 6 , 11 and 15 , and I wish to consider those today . for many child with SEND , their school transport be a lifeline to education , friendship and independence . without it , these child risk be cut off , leave behind and deny opportunity that they deserve . if these Lords amendment be reject , local council and transport provider will struggle , family will face uncertainty and , I believe , the fundamental right to education will be compromise . this be not just a technical change to national insurance rate and threshold ; it be a direct threat to the future of vulnerable child and their family . these dry word on a page have a massive impact in the world outside this place . there be a genuine fear that the cost of remove these Lords amendment , which will ultimately see more child keep out of school , will actually be great than the additional revenue raise through the national insurance change . in reality , to exempt SEND school transport from the national insurance rise be not go to bankrupt the UK . we know that local council , even with additional funding , be already struggle with the impact of 14 year of austerity . I believe that we could certainly raise the money we need if we have a wealth tax and introduce other change to capital gain tax . I would appreciate it if the Minister explain why we be unable to compromise on this issue and find a way to exempt SEND school transport from the change he propose . it be almost three month to the day since we be here in this Chamber on Third Reading . the SNP and other party warn at that stage of the very real , dire consequence for organisation , business , charity , hospice and so on . it certainly do not give I , or anybody else on the Opposition side of the House , any pleasure that those threat have come to pass . there be no pleasure in that whatsoever . the british Chambers of Commerce speak last month of a " powder keg of cost " for business , with 82 % of firm survey say that they face the potential of staff lay - off , wage freeze or cancel promotion in the workforce , which will be a terrible drag on the economy . last month see vacancy in the UK contract at the second - fast rate in nearly five year , while wage growth have slump to an almost four - year low . if we want the evidence of what business think of this change , it be there in the figure : 300 , 000 small business owner survey last month say they intend to lay off employee in order to cope with Labour ' s national insurance increase . the economic impact be now become absolutely clear . last week ' s GDP figure show the UK economy shrink in January . on Monday this week , the OECD downgrade the UK growth forecast for both this year and the next . the reality under Labour be that economic growth have fall in four of the past seven month . the national insurance grab represent an extraordinary and unforced error in fiscal policy . if Labour genuinely have confidence in this move , then it should have no issue whatsoever in agree to Lords amendment 21 and publish an impact assessment of its national insurance increase . what the Minister detail as an impact assessment be in fact an analysis . an impact assessment deal not with the number , but with output in the real economy — the effect on business . the Minister know fine that that be not what he be talk about . on gps and Lords amendment 1 , 4 , 5 , 9 and 13 , the Scottish Government will be invest — or compensate , rather — £ 13 . 6 million in general practice this financial year to support GPs in Scotland alone , obviously , to retain and recruit staff in the face of the change . but Scotland ' s GPs , any more than England ' s , Wales ' s or Northern Ireland ' s , should not be pay the price for UK Government decision . labour ' s decision to increase national insurance contribution be a catastrophe for GP practice and for charity across Scotland — the relevant Lords amendment be 2 , 7 , 12 and 16 . there be 7 , 000 charity in Scotland at risk from this Labour Government . Marie Curie face a £ 2 . 9 million inflation to its cost , with £ 75 million across the charitable sector in Scotland . the Scottish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals alone be expose to a £ 400 , 000 recur pressure from this Labour Government . Scotland ' s public sector face a £ 700 million recur pressure , which , with the Government ' s compensation , still leave a £ 200 million shortfall . Scotland be again be punish for choose to invest more in its public service and pay people who deliver those service well . the Government regularly attack we by say , " what would you do ? " I will tell they what I would do : £ 30 billion by rejoin the single market ; £ 16 billion by introduce scottish income tax rate ; and £ 43 billion from a wealth tax of 1 % on asset over £ 10 million . but this Labour Government will not go after multimillionaire . they would far rather go after the disabled , hospice , family business , GPs , farmer , council and charity . that be what these so - call socialist be intent on do . in conclusion , Labour ' s fiscal bonfire be what my colleague in the Scottish Government have have to deal with to try to ameliorate and protect community from Labour ' s economic ineptitude . but even fiscally incompetent Unionists — a cadre in whose number I include the Minister — must realise that the Scottish Parliament can not exist simply to ameliorate and protect scottish public service from the United Kingdom ' s decision . devolution can only ever be a temporary face - lift for the crumble foundation of Unionism . as the Union crumble , I shed no tear , but I wish it be not rip the economic heart out of Scotland on its way down . I would like to start with a gentle reminder , if it be need , that Labour promise in its manifesto not to raise national insurance . yet we be here today because Labour break that promise . we be here today because right hon . and hon . member in the other place table some very important amendment to the Bill , which be , rightly , now here for we to consider . let we also not forget that Labour colleague vote against protect small family business ; against protect hospice ; against protect GPs ; against protect care provider ; against protect small charity , include air ambulance ; against protect provider of school transport for child with SEND ; and against protect nursery . now they all face the job tax . my right hon . friend will recall that the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) refer in his speech to perverse incentive . be it not perverse that the Government should , while exempt the health service , be tax doctor , dentist , hospice and child ' s hospice , which be , effectively , all part of that same health service ? my right hon . friend be absolutely spot on . I find it hard to believe that we be listen to those argument be make by Labour Members . the unintended consequence of the Labour Government ' s choice be not just disappointing but callous . they be so harsh on some of the most vulnerable community and vulnerable people in society . my right hon . friend be make some excellent point . do she agree that it also show a deep lack of understanding by the Labour party of the way our community be construct and the organisation we rely on so much to keep they go ? that be exactly the point . what we see instead be Labour Members continue to blame their economic inheritance . that be simply not correct . the chair of the Office for Budget Responsibility say : " nothing in our review be a legitimisation of that £ 22 billion " . I wonder what the former Governor of the Bank of England , Mark Carney , make of all this . in the run - up to the 2024 general election , he endorse Labour . what many people now see be a Government who do not really understand the role that so many charity play in support the NHS , community , old people , young people , family , and patient — people who be sick and sometimes terminally ill . for example , why would they protect the public sector and the rest of the NHS from the national insurance tax , but not general practice ? analysis from the Institute of General Practice Management estimate that it will cost each practice an average of £ 20 , 000 a year . how many staff hour be that equivalent to ? how many hour of a gp ' s time or a practice nurse ' s time be that ? I have speak to a number of local charity , and we have hear from other today . every pound that the Labour Government squeeze out of they through the job tax be an extra pound that can not be spend on frontline service — an extra pound that they have to find just to stand still . I find it so hard to believe that this Labour Government be also tax those who provide vital hospice care . how can they talk of help palliative care with one hand , while clobber hospice and care provider with extra taxis with the other ? I can be cynical at time but I see a complete lack of business expertise , knowledge or experience among those on the Labour Benches . just visit business be not enough to understand how a business operate . I speak to they in my constituency on a weekly basis . the chair of the CBI have state that " business have be milk as the cash cow " . we simply can not expect small business , or indeed any business , to just be squeeze and squeeze , think , " well , they ' ll just increase their cost and pass they on to the end user . " the end user can not afford they , as we have hear this afternoon . ultimately , something will have to give : hour , training , development and job . just yesterday , we be in this Chamber debate the Government ' s welfare reform . at the heart of the issue , I really believe people want to get back into work . they need support to do that , but they also need employer and business to have vacancy so that they can support they back into work . what I , like other , see in this legislation be the Government tax business out of create the vital job that this country so need to get the growth that we do not have at the moment . as I mention , attendance on the Government Benches be somewhat threadbare , give the appearance that the Government do not care . we have hear from Labour Members who do care , just like we on the Opposition Benches care . I draw my remark to a conclusion by urge member on the Government Benches and those listen outside to reflect very carefully . we all have the opportunity today to do the right thing — to protect and help charity and hospice and , by virtue of that , to protect and help some of the most vulnerable in our country and society . we have the opportunity to protect job and help business to create opportunity and , by virtue of that , to help work people who aspire to a well life . I end quite simply by urge those on the Government Benches to think again and to do the right thing . I wish to express my deep concern about the Government ' s national insurance change and the devastating impact they be have on essential service in my constituency . the amendment put forward by the Liberal Democrats in the Lords be crucial to prevent this policy from inflict serious harm on GP practice , care provider and the wide health system . take our GP surgery , which be vital to healthcare in Lewes and beyond . I have be speak to local healthcare provider in my community over the past week . unlike private business , GP surgery can not pass their cost on to their patient . every extra pound spend on national insurance be a pound less spend on patient care , staffing and appointment . the Government ' s failure to exempt they will mean few face - to - face consultation and long wait time , contrary to the Government ' s claim objective . the Liberal Democrats ' Lords amendment 1 , 4 , 5 , 9 and 13 would protect GP surgery , NHS - commission dentist and pharmacist by keep their national insurance cost at a sustainable level . social care provider be face the same predicament . a domiciliary care provider in my constituency be already struggle to recruit and retain staff due to rise cost . I have a similar situation in my constituency with Strada Care , which be under immense strain , have already close four care home over the past seven year due to chronic underfunding . thousand of care provider be on the brink of collapse , and many more may follow if these Lords amendment be disagree to . with social care service already struggle , more vulnerable individual will be force into hospital and be bed block . do my hon . friend agree that increase cost for social care provider will have a devastating knock - on effect for the NHS ? I absolutely agree . the care provider in my constituency face a 9 . 4 % increase in employer ' s cost , which it simply can not absorb . these be the very people keep elderly and disabled resident safe in their home , prevent hospital admission and ease NHS pressure , yet the Government have choose to burden they rather than support they . the Lords amendment I mention would ensure that care provider can continue to deliver essential service without be drive into financial crisis . the £ 615 cost per person report to I by care provider in my constituency will mean that one constituent , who be pay £ 1 , 500 a week for care for her 94 - year - old mother , will no long have the money to pay for the care of her disabled brother as well , after the fee go up as a result of this job tax . do my hon . friend agree that that be a shockingly unacceptable result of these change , and that the Lords amendment introduce by the Liberal Democrats should be accept ? I thank my hon . friend for provide such a concrete example of the real suffering these change will cause . this be not an abstract thing ; it be about real people ' s life , and there be people who will suffer as a result , as in the example give by my hon . friend . I will move on to nursery and early year provider , an issue very close to my heart . in my constituency , they be face the same impossible squeeze . the rise in national insurance contribution , combine with the increase statutory wage cost , be push many to the very brink . the National Day Nurseries Association have warn that the average nursery will see an additional £ 47 , 000 in cost , which the Government ' s funding increase do not come even close to covering . if nursery be force to close , it will leave work parent , who be already struggle with the cost of living , without the childcare they need . if school be exempt from this tax hike , as they should be , the nursery that provide the very foundation of a child ' s education should be , too . what make this even bad be that the Government be not just undermine essential service , but force more people towards they by strip away other form of support . at the same time as these tax hike , Ministers be cut vital benefit such as personal independence payment , leave thousand of vulnerable people struggle to afford the basic , mean that more people will have no choice but to turn to the very care provider and community health service that be now be hit financially by these national insurance change . the Government can not claim to support essential service while actively drive they towards collapse . they be give with one hand , while take much more with the other . I find that a gauge of the level of enthusiasm and pride that a Government have in a policy they have put forward be often the number of their representative who turn up to support it and be associate with it . notwithstanding the heroic contribution of the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , the emptiness of the Government Benches speak volume . the liberal Democrat Lords amendment before we today would help to prevent irreparable damage to GP practice , care provider and the wide healthcare system . I urge the Minister to back they , because fail to do so will cost not just money , but life . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the Bill be yet another example of legislation from this government that break their manifesto promise , harm local business , negatively impact our constituent and limit the prospect of growth in my local economy of Chester South and Eddisbury and , indeed , the country . fundamentally , these change will hit work people the hard — the very people the Chancellor say would be shield from the impact of the Bill will be the most affected . it will mean low wage , high unemployment and increase cost for business , result in high price in the shop . do not just take my word for it : the Office for Budget Responsibility have state that " additional payroll cost for employer be pass through into low wage . " when I speak with business owner in my constituency , they say they feel like they be swim against the tide , from the NIC increase to the reduction in business rate relief . the recur message from every company I speak to be that confidence in the economy be down . I must ask the Minister : how be that conducive to growth ? I will speak to two of the amendment . exempting hospice from this damaging increase in employer national insurance contribution be the right thing to do . I have have the pleasure of visit both the hospice of the good Shepherd in Backford and St Luke ' s hospice in Winsford , which provide a vital service to the most vulnerable of my constituent at the most difficult time in their life . they provide the very good care and support , and I encourage the Minister to visit and see for himself the warm , compassionate and welcome environment that they offer , which reflect the attitude of the doctor , nurse and , indeed , all the staff who go above and beyond in their work . the financial implication of an increase in national insurance contribution and the result consequence for service and staff will be hugely damaging . those hospice have share with I their challenge with recruitment and their deep concern that these tax rise will make pay their staff in line with what their colleague receive in the NHS even hard than it already be . my hon . friend talk passionately about hospice . do she agree that tax hospice but provide tax relief to hospital through the relief to the NHS actually disincentivise move people out of hospital , which the Secretary of State for Health say be his intention ? I completely agree with that excellent intervention . the frustration that hospice have be that in order to recruit staff , they need to pay wage comparable to what NHS staff receive , and this change be make that virtually impossible to do . hospice require a highly specialised workforce to provide the level of care and dignity that they offer to patient . without the propose exemption , I be unsure as to the sustainability of the hospice that serve my constituent . the second issue I would like to mention briefly be the impact on transport for child with special educational need . as we know , the complex need and challenge of SEN child vary from case to case ; some will need specialist transport to and from school , for appointment , or just for everyday task . many of these young people be vulnerable child , to whom process and routine matter . they might have a driver with whom they have build a bond and who understand their need ; they might be a highly anxious child , or perhaps a non - verbal child who have a driver who can use british Sign Language . for my constituent in Chester South and Eddisbury , specialist transport be of the utmost importance . our community be isolated and rural , and parent and child rely on this vital service . there be no transport alternative in many area . People can not get a bus — not even one without a specialist driver — leave many of my village cut off with no public transport option at all . in my constituency of St Albans , which be not particularly rural , many child with special educational need have to travel a great distance , because we do not have enough special school place . do the hon . Member agree that this be an issue that affect child right up and down the country ? the hon . Member make an important point . it do not matter whether we be talk about a rural or an urban community , these young people often have to travel large distance , and we really need to think about their welfare . in my constituency , they literally have no other option . if we make this service effectively unaffordable , we be just take away that option from SEN child . in conclusion , I simply say to the Minister and to Government Members that they should consider the real people behind these decision , the support that will be take away from vulnerable people and the vital service that will no long be affordable because of this inexcusable tax increase . rise — order . we have three more speaker . if anyone intervene , I will not be able to get all of they in . I rise to speak to Lords amendment 1 , 2 , 3 and 4 . the Liberal Democrats be extremely concerned that this tax rise risk dire consequence for social care , primary care , the NHS , hospice and charity , many of which be deliver vital healthcare in the community . thousand of care provider be already on the brink of bankruptcy , and this national insurance increase risk tip they over the edge . the OBR estimate that this hike will bring in £ 10 billion a year rather than the £ 25 billion estimate by the Government , once employer change their behaviour in response to the tax and once public sector employer be compensate . yes , we know that finance be stretch , and that the Government inherit an incredibly difficult situation , but the Government could have raise that amount of money through much fair tax change , and we Liberal Democrats have come up with many suggestion . for example , they could have reverse conservative cut hand to the big bank ; increase the digital service tax ; double the rate of remote gaming duty ; and introduce a fair reform of capital gain tax , so that the 0 . 1 % of ultra - wealthy individual pay their fair share . this may be something particular to Totnes , but many wealthy constituent have tell I that they wish they be be ask to pay more tax . the Liberal Democrats have call on the Government to exempt social care provider and GPs from the employer national insurance tax rise . on average , the tax rise will cost each GP practice an estimate £ 20 , 000 a year . the Government have announce an additional £ 889 million in the 2025 - 26 GP contract , but have fail to spell out how much of that they believe practice will need to use to pay the additional tax burden , and how much will be leave to meet unmet patient need . what be clear be that the national insurance rise will mean that the uplift to the GP contract be in fact far small than it appear , because a proportion will need to be return directly to the Treasury — rob Peter to pay Paul , as many member have say . what assessment have the Government make of how much of the recent uplift in the GP contract will practice need to use to offset the rise in national insurance ? rowcroft hospice , which be in the constituency next door , but which serve we , say the NIC rise be expect to add £ 225 , 000 to annual cost . one of my GP surgery say that its cost will go up by £ 187 , 000 , and the Devon Mental Health Alliance estimate the cost increase at £ 375 , 000 , potentially result in a loss of 25 , 167 staffing hour . one gp say to we : " I have be a gp for 10 year and a doctor for 15 . it be exhausting and , frankly , I just feel like give up . this be not an attractive or stable job for training doctor . " the Devon Mental Health Alliance , which be a strategic partnership , unite five lead charitable organisation in Devon , say : " as a sector , we play a critical role in ease the burden on the NHS by prevent thousand of people from need GP appointment , hospital care , or sit on waiting list for treatment . by address health issue at their root and offer early intervention and prevention , this sector act as a frontline defence , reduce demand on overstretch NHS service . " it can not fill the black hole by increase revenue efficiency or risk management . the organisation estimate cost of £ 375 , 000 next year and , as I have say , that could mean lose 25 , 000 staffing hour . that would mean that more people in Devon with complex need will not be able to access its service . Minister , at a time when we have a mental health crisis across all age and community , this extra financial impact on voluntary sector service be short - sighted and will only heap more pressure on the NHS . if we do not value the work do in primary care , particularly by GPs , we be put the health of our constituent across the country at risk , put more pressure on GPs who be already work at full capacity and threaten reform to the NHS , which have already be bring to its knee by chronic underfunding over the past decade . I strongly urge the Government to reconsider the NICs rise for GPs , social care provider and all of those work to support health and wellbee in the community that we represent . just to finish , I would like to echo what other have say about the total absence of Government Back Benchers who have feel able to come in and speak in support of their hospice , their social care provider and their voluntary sector organisation , because they could not come in here and defend a Government policy that they know be indefensible . I rise to speak in support of these Lords amendment , and I will speak today on those that would protect small business with up to 25 employee . in Wales , more than 99 % of all business be small or medium - sized enterprise . of those , nearly 95 % be micro - sized , mean that they employ between one and nine people . for all the protection that the Government say they have put in place for small business , the increase to employer national insurance contribution will still hit these enterprise hard . there be a lack of home - grow Welsh business develop beyond the micro - enterprise level and become large business themselves . we need a Government who will step up and support local business to grow . unfortunately , this Government be do the exact opposite , as it be estimate that an employer of 40 people on an average salary be about £ 29 , 000 bad off a year under the national insurance change . why would Welsh business now be incentivise to grow and take on more staff give this extra cost ? it be worth note , too , that the OBR forecast that 76 % of the cost of the national insurance contribution increase will be pass on to worker through high price and low pay rise . the Government have say that small business will be shield from the national insurance increase through the change to employment allowance . however , when ask specifically how many business in Wales will benefit , the Government respond by say that they do not know . this government like to talk about growth as their central mission , but can they explain how this policy be good for growth for our small business in Wales ? all I can see be that it be bad for Welsh business , bad for Welsh worker , and bad for the Welsh economy . I urge the Government to support these Lords amendment to at least protect more business from the damage that the national insurance hike will cause . I have raise concern previously in this Chamber that this Labour Government be not consider the need of small and local business in their decision , and these damaging national insurance hike be only further proof that that be the case . I rise to speak to Lords amendment 1 , 4 , 5 , 9 and 13 . these amendment table by the Liberal Democrats in the other place would ensure that care provider , NHS GP practice , NHS - commission dentist , NHS - commission pharmacy , charitable provider of health and social care , and hospice care continue to pay secondary class 1 contribution at the rate of 13 . 8 % . with healthcare in such a dire state in Glastonbury and Somerton , it be essential that provider be not put into further financial difficulty due to increase in employer national insurance contribution . like so many member , my inbox have be brim with correspondence on this matter from organisation across my constituency . the measure will disproportionately impact business run by woman . for example , early year provider Acorn Day Nursery in Somerton have tell I that it believe that the employer national insurance contribution increase , in combination with other recent funding announcement , could be the final nail in the coffin for its business , leave family without crucial early year care provision . I have hear from hospice care provider such as Dorothy House , which provide crucial end of life care for my constituent . it will be hard hit by the rise in employer national insurance contribution , which will impact care provision for people who live in rural area . Vine GP surgery in Street share with I its concern about the impact of the change to employer national insurance contribution , state that it will undermine access to patient care follow year of neglect from the previous Conservative Government . a constituent from Langport recently write to I to raise their concern about the negative impact of the rise in national insurance on care home . already stretch care home could see an increase of around £ 650 per employee for anyone work more than eight hour a week . that will have a knock - on impact on the cost of care provision . community pharmacy play an essential role in provide care in the community , in line with the Government ' s strategic agenda . however , if the rise in national insurance contribution go ahead , pharmacy such as Bruton , Castle Cary , Stoke - sub - Hamdon and Martock could all be put at risk . if they go , vital frontline service for rural community will be lose . the National Pharmacy Association have predict that around 1 , 000 will close by 2027 . the combined effect of change to the national insurance contribution and the national living wage could add an extra £ 25 , 000 to each pharmacy in rural Somerset , affect their viability . give the rate of pharmacy closure in Glastonbury and Somerton be nearly double the national average , my constituent will be hard hit by this tax hike . in rural area we simply can not afford to lose any more pharmacy or our critical frontline service . I fear that these measure will only increase the pressure on GPs and other service that will be badly impact by this decision . I urge colleague to back the Liberal Democrats ’ amendment so that we can protect frontline health provider , who , shockingly , be not include in the Government ' s exemption . without it , health and early year provision across the country will be drastically reduce . I will respond briefly to some of the point raise in the debate . I thank all hon . member for their contribution . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) , repeat many point that I address in my opening remark . he ask a fundamental question : why must the Bill be implement ? my response be because of the mess that his party leave when we win the election last July . I note that he refuse to say whether he would reverse the national insurance change that we be make , despite be ask by Government Members . he refuse to make clear his party ' s position , as the leader of his party do early . the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) speak of choice in politic . she be right that politics be about choice . but she be also incapable of explain what different choice she and her colleague would make , since they oppose our change to national insurance contribution . would they go for high borrowing , low spending or other tax rise ? my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) Poole and the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) speak about special educational need transport facility . I mention in my early remark that the Budget and the provisional local government finance settlement set out £ 2 billion of new grant funding for local government in 2025 - 26 . that include £ 515 million to support council with employer national insurance contribution . however , it be not ringfence , which mean that it be for local authority to determine how to use this funding across relevant service and responsibility . there be a comment from the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , although he be not in his place and I do not know where he be — perhaps he be off feed his spider . he make a rather colourful comparison between some of my point and those make by a former colleague of his . I do not know whether he realise that in do so he imply that the position that the former Secretary of State for Health be defend be indefensible . I would be interested to see which of the previous Government ' s policy he think be indefensible . when he return from his spider - care duty I will ask he , but in his absence , let I say what be indefensible : for Conservative Members to have vote for the Liz Truss mini - Budget . what be indefensible be what they do to public service over 14 year . what would have be indefensible would have be our let the situation carry on as it be when we win the general election . the Bill make some of the difficult but necessary decision that we as a Government have have to take to fix the public finance and get public service back on their foot . the amendment from the other place require information that have already be provide . they do not recognise other policy that the Government have in place , and most seriously they seek to undermine the funding that the Bill will secure . I therefore respectfully propose that this House disagree with the Lords amendment . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 1 . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Keir Mather Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Claire Hanna Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Julian Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Nick Timothy James Wild the House divide : Ayes 307 , Noes 182 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 1 disagree to . More than two hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords amendment , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83F ) . Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 2 . — ( James Murray . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Keir Mather Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth Davies David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Claire Hanna John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Nick Timothy James Wild the House divide : Ayes 310 , Noes 183 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 2 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 3 . — ( James Murray . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Keir Mather Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Nick Timothy James Wild the House divide : Ayes 314 , Noes 187 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 3 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 4 . — ( James Murray . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Keir Mather Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Claire Hanna Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Nick Timothy James Wild the House divide : Ayes 313 , Noes 190 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 4 disagree to . clause 2 - secondary threshold for secondary Class 1 contribution Lords amendment 5 to 7 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 8 . — ( James Murray . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Keir Mather Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Lewis cock Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Simmonds Paul Holmes the House divide : Ayes 316 , Noes 189 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 8 disagree to . lord amendment 9 to 19 disagree to . as the House be inform early , Mr Speaker be satisfied that Lords amendment 20 would impose a charge on the public revenue that be not authorise by the money resolution pass by this House on 3 December 2024 . in accordance with Standing Order no . 78 ( 3 ) , Lords amendment 20 be therefore deem to be disagree to . after clause 3 - Review of effect on certain sector Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 21 . — ( James Murray . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Keir Mather Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Calum Miller John Milne Gagan Mohindra Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young David Simmonds Paul Holmes the House divide : Ayes 316 , Noes 187 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 21 disagree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree with their amendment 1 to 19 and 21 ; that James Murray , Christian Wakeford , Imogen Walker , Dan Tomlinson , Chris Vince , Gareth Davies and Daisy Cooper be member of the Committee ; that James Murray be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . opposition Day - [ 1st Allotted Day , second part ] opposition Day Winter Fuel Payment I beg to move , that this House call on the Government to publish datum on the number of eligible pensioner it estimate do not receive the Winter Fuel Payment in 2024 – 25 ; further call on the Government to publish datum show the impact of change to the Winter Fuel Payment on level of pensioner poverty and the number of hospital admission ; also call on the Government to set out how it intend to ensure that those eligible for Pension Credit receive it before winter 2025 - 26 ; and call on the Government to apologise for the misery cause to vulnerable pensioner in winter 2024 – 25 . now that the sun have come out , I suspect that many of we will quickly forget the chill of the winter — the evening when it be freeze outside and we reach for our jumper , and perhaps the switch on our central heating too . however , for many pensioner turn up the heating be not an option , because one of the Chancellor ' s first act in her new job last year be to scrap the winter fuel payment for 10 million pensioner — something of which she give no hint before the election , a time when voter rightly expect political party to spell out their plan . as a result , million of old people , many with fix and far from substantial income and many live in draughty home , miss out on £ 300 this winter . that money make all the difference . in fact , for some it be literally a choice between heating and eat . at the same time , energy bill go up . before the election , the Government do not say they would cut the winter fuel payment , but they do promise to bring our energy bill down — by £ 300 , in fact . instead , they be up by about £ 170 . it be a promise so easily make and so carelessly break . Labour Members may not like hear this , but let we pause for a minute to think about what this mean in human term . I remember well my grandmother in her 90 in layer of jumper , shawl and blanket in winter , even when she have the heating on . in fact , I remember well give she a woollen shawl as a Christmas present , because she be always cold . I would describe myself as someone who feel the cold , but I know that what I feel on a winter ' s day be not a patch on how someone in their 80 or 90 feel , especially if they have health problem , and I know from my time as a Health Minister about the connection between be cold and end up in hospital . to help get the winter fuel payment cut past Labour Back Benchers , some of whom do have conscience , the Government claim that they be go to protect the most vulnerable because those on pension credit would still get it , but let we look at what that really mean in practice — at the fact . pension credit top up a pensioner ' s weekly income to £ 218 . 15 if they be single or , if they have a partner , to £ 332 . 95 jointly . someone with an annual income of £ 11 , 500 could be ineligible for pension credit . they may be just £ 1 or £ 2 over the threshold , but because of the cliff edge , they do not get pension credit and , as a result of the Government ' s cut , they would not get the winter fuel payment either . so we be not talk about rich people . I certainly remember , and I be sure other will , the Government say that those with the broad shoulder would take the strain . do the shadow Secretary of State consider those on this level of income to have the broad shoulder ? my hon . friend make exactly the important point I be make , which be that if the Government think what they be do would affect just the very wealthy in society , they be very wrong . be it not very tell that , although when this policy be vote on in this House in September the Government have a majority of 120 , there be very few Labour mp on the Government Benches to defend their own policy in this debate ? my right hon . friend be exactly right . as I say a moment ago , I do believe that some Labour member have conscience , but I be not sure which one . be those with conscience the one who be hide away from the Chamber because they feel guilty and do not want to hear this debate , or the hon . member here who be actually go to stand up in support of pensioner and join we in the Lobby later . I be look forward to the opening speech of the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) , because if we see the same sympathy that he show for people in his " Newsnight " interview last night , we should be in for a treat . when the Government put forward their proposal , they claim that they be go to save £ 1 billion . however , the amount of money they would be pay out with the increase uptake of pension credit be go to cost £ 3 . 5 billion at that time . do the shadow Secretary of State have up - to - date figure on whether this policy will actually deliver a saving for the Government ? one of the thing we would very much like to see be a full set of figure from the Government , but my hon . friend make a very important point . the Government say they want everyone who be eligible to sign up for pension credit and therefore be able to access the winter fuel payment , but if everyone have actually sign up for pension credit , the Government would not have save the money they set out that the policy would save . the Department for Work and Pensions state that it work to a planned timescale of 50 working day for processing application . however , on 9 December , in response to my write question , it turn out that , at its peak just before the cold period , it be 87 working day . even now , the answer be that it take on average 56 work day to get pension credit sort . that be a problem , because the Government direct people to pension credit who can not then get access to it when they need it , at the cold time of the year . be that not a despicable decision ? yes . my hon . friend make a really important point . he have be every effective in his use of parliamentary question to scrutinise the government and get datum from they — they do not like to give it willingly . he identify the long delay for pension credit approval and therefore access to winter fuel payment . some will have apply before the deadline for pension credit and get the whole way through winter without get money , or even know whether they be go to get any money . we know well from charity such as Age UK , which represent pensioner , that pensioner be very reluctant to get themselves into debt . if they do not know whether they be get the payment , they would have be very reluctant to spend money in the hope that they might . rise — let I make a little progress and then I will be delighted to take more intervention from colleague . the Chancellor have previously argue that winter fuel payment should be mean - test and cut for the rich pensioner , but who here think that someone on an income of £ 11 , 500 be rich ? Age UK estimate that over 80 % of pensioner live below or only just above the poverty line would lose their winter fuel payment . the issue be not just that low - income vulnerable pensioner miss out on help with their heating because they be just above the pension credit threshold — the problem be bad than that . last summer , the Government know that over 800 , 000 people may be eligible for pension credit but do not claim it , mean that they , too , would miss out on the winter fuel payment . the Pensions Minister at the time , the hon . member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , assure we that the Government would get on top of that . in fact , she tell we that her target be to have 100 % of those eligible for pension credit claim it . but here we be many month later , and still around three quarter of a million eligible pensioner be not on pension credit . that be another promise easily make but easily break . there have be a woeful failure by the Government to close properly that gap , despite all the coverage the winter fuel payment receive . of course , we know that this would be hard . we , too , have pension credit uptake campaign in Government . More people sign up , but still many do not . I expect the Government know that they would fail , too . their official would have tell they , but it be easy for they to assure the press , the charity and their Back Benchers , " Don ' t worry , " just as we have hear their minister do about the welfare reform in the last 24 hour . for they , it be easy to wait for the spring to come and hope that everyone would simply forget . well I say to they , " we win ' t let you forget . " nor will million of pensioner and their family : 10 million pensioner be miss out on help with their heating , among they around 1 million of the most vulnerable people in our country , quite literally leave in the cold by this Labour Government . that will not be forget in a hurry . my hon . friend be make a powerful speech . it be absolutely right that we ask the question we be ask today . the statistic that have shock I most in this debate be that of the million of pensioner who lose their winter fuel payment , 44 , 000 be estimate to have be terminally ill . be she as shock as I be by that statistic ? I be indeed extremely shock by that statistic ; that be one reason why we need to have this debate today and try to get some of the datum out of the Government . they be at the time , and continue to be , incredibly reluctant to share whatever they know about the impact of this cut on people , include the terminally ill . go back to datum , this policy do not just impact pensioner , because the Government second 500 extra staff to try to deal with pension credit . we know , from another write answer , that those staff come from the service handle child maintenance , counter fraud , compliance and debt , so there be go to be an ongoing impact . do the Government not need to be transparent about the impact on the Departments that have have to move staff across to try to deal with their own policy ? my hon . friend make an important point about transparency , and he recognise that this policy have have an impact not only on pensioner , but on other part of Government , and therefore on other constituent . it be another thing that I hope the Government back Benchers in the Chamber be take note of , to pass on to their colleague who , for some reason , have choose not to be present to discuss this topic this afternoon . my hon . friend be be exceptionally generous in give way . do she agree that the Government need to be completely transparent about the cost of this policy ? it have be estimate that it will cost the NHS — already press — £ 169 million . we know from NHS England that 100 , 000 extra people age 65 or over have be through a & E this relatively warm winter . be this policy not a case of rob Peter to pay Paul ? my right hon . friend , give his experience in this area , will know very well the connection between heating and health , particularly for old people . the Government must surely ensure that they understand the knock - on impact of the cut to the winter fuel payment on old people ' s health , and therefore on admission to hospital and on hospital ' ability to cope . as we know , there be then the consequence for old people , who , when admit to hospital , often end up have long hospital stay , with significant loss of independence and reduction in quality of life as a result . rise — I will continue , because I know that many member wish to speak this afternoon — at least on the Opposition Benches . from the moment the Government announce this policy , we be deeply concerned about the impact it would have , which be why we lead the opposition to the cut , and why we force a vote on it back in September . the vote be a chance for Labour mp to make a stand . instead , 348 Labour mp choose to support the winter fuel payment cut . we then see the Government try to avoid tell people the impact the cut would actually have , so we be try again today . I put it to the Minister that now be his chance to be straight with people . what do the Government know when the cut be announce ? do they know how many pensioner would miss out ? do they know how many would end up in hospital ? their own report from 2017 find that cut the winter fuel payment could cause nearly 4 , 000 pensioner to die . do Ministers ask if that be likely to happen this winter ? I would be happy to give way to he if he want to answer my question right now , but , give they have not be answer for month , I fear he will not . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will in a moment — I be hope the Minister might have answer , but he do not . to this day , the Government have not publish a full impact assessment set out the truth about their policy . be that because they do not know themselves , or because they do not want to admit the harm that they be willing to do ? thank to the effort of colleague and the public , we have , however , be able to glean some information in the month since . the Secretary of State admit to the Work and Pensions Committee that she have see internal modelling show that 100 , 000 pensioner would be push into poverty because of their political choice . thank to a freedom of information request , the Government be force to publish their equality analysis , show that 71 % of people with a disability would lose their winter fuel payment , while official NHS datum show that the number of over - 65 attend a & E this winter soar by nearly 100 , 000 compare with last year , despite this be a less cold year . and now , as I have say , it feel as if spring be here . it be time for the Government to be honest with the public and tell we what this policy have do in practice . I hope they will not tell we that they do not monitor the result , because that surely be not credible . it be time to tell we how many eligible pensioner do not receive the winter fuel payment this year ; time to tell we how the cut have hit pensioner poverty ; and time to tell we what those cut do to hospital admission . minister need to know this information so that they can prepare responsibly for next year . back Benchers need to know this information so that they can represent their constituent effectively . and the public deserve to know the consequence of the action of the government they elect . will the shadow Minister be honest with the House , and honest with pensioner : how many would be affect , and by how much , by the means - testing of the state pension , to which the Leader of the Opposition be commit ? order . I be sure the Member understand that the shadow Minister be always honest . perhaps she would like to clarify what she have just say . I ask the shadow Minister to be straight with the House , as she ask the Minister to be . order . that be two strike . again , I ask the hon . member please to clarify her question . will the shadow Minister tell the House how many pensioner would be impact by the Leader of the Opposition ' s plan to mean - test the state pension , and by how much ? I do not want to fall into the same trap as the hon . Lady do when she make those accusation . what she have just say do not describe the position of the Leader of the Opposition . I also remind she that today be an opportunity for the Government to answer question , and that be what she should be look to the Minister , rather than the shadow Minister , to do . I have always say that it be absolute nonsense that somebody like I , who be still work , and my wife , who be still work , should receive the winter fuel allowance . we be go to address that , which be right — so we should have do . if that be what be call mean - testing , then I be perfectly happy with that . but what we be not go to do be to take money from the pocket of the poor pensioner in the country , and that be what this Government have do . I could not have make the point well than my right hon . friend . I have one final question before I conclude : what be all this for ? we clearly know who lose out and who suffer as a result of the cut to the winter fuel payment , but who benefit ? to govern be to choose . all those who get inflation - bust pay increase after Labour do its deal with its trade union friend be the one to benefit . billion for the union , but nothing for the pensioner . this will be the legacy of yet another Labour Government . the last one increase the state pension by just 75p a week ; this one have take away the winter fuel payment . by contrast , it be the Conservatives who introduce and protect the triple lock , which see the state pension increase by £ 3 , 700 during our time in office ; it be the Conservatives who reduce the number of pensioner live in absolute poverty by 200 , 000 — Labour will undo that by a quarter in its first year — and it be the Conservatives who deliver nearly £ 12 million in winter fuel payment and cost of living payment for pensioner , because we understand the need to help the most vulnerable through the winter . it be astonish how many people Labour have already let down in just eight month — pensioner , farmer , business owner , young people look for job , and , yesterday , disabled people — in its rush to fix its financial mess . early we hear the Prime Minister say that if a party have a big majority , it do not need to consult , so the onus be on all of we here . colleague , and especially Labour Members , have an opportunity today to make the Government listen . it be a chance to stick to our principle , stick up for our constituent and vote to see the truth . I listen closely to those remark but be still none the wiser as to whether the conservative party be commit to reverse the change to the winter fuel payment . I be grateful for the opportunity to have this debate . the change to the winter fuel payment have be much discuss and debate many time by hon . member in this place . government make decision and , rightly , they be hold accountable for they in this place , especially when those decision affect pensioner , whom we all want to support . this Government have make , and will continue to make , responsible choice in our management of the public finance , but also in ensure that we deliver on what matter most . how on earth can the Minister say to a pensioner that he have make a responsible decision , when that pensioner be sit at home worried about whether they dare turn up the heating when they be cold , because they can not afford it ? I be come to the exact answer to that : responsible choice be how we can ensure that we deliver what matter most to pensioner : a rise state pension and rescue an nhs that be collapse on the right hon . Lady ' s watch . that mean we will make choice that may not always be easy — I recognise the strength of feeling on this issue in this place — but be necessary . everyone in this House know the economic and fiscal context . in Hartlepool we have take a proactive approach over this issue . since October I have be work with Hartlepool citizen advice bureau to help pensioner get the support that they deserve . the campaign end next week , but as of today we have manage to raise £ 885 , 900 of additional annual income by ensure that pensioner get the benefit to which they be entitle . will the Minister congratulate Hartlepool citizen advice bureau on its extraordinary work ? I congratulate it and I thank my hon . friend , and probably hon . member on both side of the House , who I be sure have engage with local charity in support their pensioner in the month that have go by . the Minister be be generous in give way , and I be sure that he will continue to be . he talk about make responsible choice . accord to Government analysis , 100 , 000 pensioner be be push into poverty . be that a responsible choice ? the poverty assessment , which we provide to the Work and Pensions Committee , do not take into account any increase in pension credit take - up , which I will come to shortly . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , talk about absolute pensioner poverty — the kind of poverty that should be fall every year as an economy grow . but relative poverty — a form of poverty that we look at — rise under the last Administration . opposition Members may not like to hear this , but relative pensioner poverty rise by 300 , 000 under the last government . I just gently say that when it come to pensioner poverty , we have more to do — I take the hon . Gentleman ' s point seriously — but the record of recent year be not one of success on that front . everyone in this House know the economic and fiscal context — the economic stagnation of the past decade , visible in flatline wage , collapse public service and strained public finance . every economist and every person in the country know that Britain have live through an unprecedented economic failure . in a challenging fiscal environment , difficult choice be unavoidable . the Government have set fiscal rule and we will stick to they . but , as some old member may remember , prudence be for a purpose : to support a grow economy that benefit everyone . it be the prerequisite for rescue our public service and rise living standard for worker , but also for pensioner . in my constituency , even after take into account pension credit , 20 , 000 pensioner will lose out from the Government ' s cut . Maggie from Waterlooville write to I to say : " we have cut back on heating , we be both in our seventy and we both feel the cold . " how on earth do the Minister justify that as a responsible choice ? how on earth will force pensioner into pneumonia or influenza help the NHS ? how on earth can the Minister come here and justify treat hard - work pensioner with such disdain ? I do not think that anybody in the House be go to be treat pensioner with disdain . that be why the state pension will rise by 4 . 1 % in April , why we have put £ 26 billion into the NHS and why we intend to learn the lesson of the last Administration ' s failure to cut pensioner poverty . [ interruption . ] I have already take quite a few intervention , so I will make some progress . as hon . member know , winter fuel payment be now target at low - income pensioner . the benefit be pay to over a million household who be receive pension credit in England and Wales or on other income - relate benefit . pensioner in receipt of attendance allowance or disability living allowance can also qualify for pension credit . crucially , those benefit do not reduce the pension credit award and can mean receive additional support . I be sure that we all want to see every pensioner get the support they be entitle to , but in recent year far too many pensioner have miss out , with over a third of eligible pensioner not claim . so since September , we have be run the big ever pension credit take - up campaign , build on campaign run by the previous Government , as the shadow Secretary of State mention . the campaign have include advert on television , radio , social medium and advertising screen in GPs ' surgery . we have engage with a wide range of stakeholder and partner include local council , community group and charity . I have certainly do that in Swansea , as I be sure hon . member across the House have do in their constituency . the Minister be be generous in give way . I welcome the fact that the Government have do work to raise awareness of pension credit , just as we do when we be in government , but that do not really reach the group of hard - work pensioner who be too proud to come forward and apply for pension credit ; it be just not what they would do . the £ 300 winter fuel allowance be a lifeline that they have now lose . the right hon . Lady make a fair point . I will come back to what more work we need to do to understand the barrier to people apply for pension credit . research show , though , that awareness be the big barrier . we need to keep break down those barrier , but I recognise the point she make . do the Minister agree that it be extraordinary to be lecture about responsible choice by member of the last Cabinet , whose irresponsible financial choice leave this Government with a £ 22 billion black hole ? we have to clean that up because of their irresponsible financial management . my hon . Friend prove that , while Conservative Members may be disappoint by the quantity of hon . member behind I , that be definitely make up for in quality . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress , because otherwise we will be here for several day . I take this opportunity to thank each and every organisation that support the pension credit take - up campaign , as well as the many friend , neighbour and family member who look out for pensioner and help they to claim . a few week ago , we release the first datum on the impact that the campaign have have . we have see 235 , 000 pension credit application in the 30 week since July , which be an 81 % increase on the comparable period in 2022 - 23 . on the question about processing rate , with over 500 additional staff allocate directly for that , we have see a similar rise in the number of claim process . most importantly , that have lead to almost 50 , 000 extra award compare with the same period last year . what would the Minister say to resident in Maidenhead who have tell I that they be not eligible for pension credit ? he talk about responsible choice , but the choice those resident now have to make be whether to dip into their saving to pay for their energy bill or to turn off their heating at night . a labour voter contact I who have have to make exactly that decision , and she say that she will never vote Labour again . be that really the change that the Government be elect to introduce ? no , the change that we be elect to introduce be to save our NHS and to return our economy to growth so that we can raise living standard for pensioner and for worker right across the country . that be the change that we be elect to deliver and that be what we be go to do . the Minister be be generous in give way ; congratulation to he on make the good of a bad job . he know that old people die in cold home . in 2017 , the Labour party do some research on which to attack the Conservatives , which show that 4 , 000 old people would probably die in the event that we remove winter fuel allowance ; we do not do that . I wonder whether he get his official to repeat that research and , if so , what it show . all of we in this place should be slightly careful when talk about what be a highly sensitive subject . there be not robust analysis that can separate out different cause of excess mortality over the winter . [ interruption . ] I will come on to answer the right hon . Gentleman ' s question . if we look at the excess mortality datum for this winter , we see that death be actually down . it be hard to separate out the effect of different measure — [ interruption . ] no , this be an important point , because some hon . member have be loose with their language than they might have want to be in past debate . we have see the level of death come down this winter . there be lot of thing — rise — I will make some progress , and then I will give way far . will the Minister give way on the datum processing point ? go ahead . I be terribly grateful to the Minister . he make the point about there be 235 , 000 application , which be great . in my write question , I ask about that and he come back and say 117 , 800 claim be award , but 114 , 500 be not . those be clearly people who feel they be entitle to pension credit but who will now struggle . what support be available for those people , who be clearly right on the cusp and be now not eligible and do not have pension credit ? the hon . Member make an important point . we should encourage people to apply , even if a percentage of those will always not qualify . the criterion under which people have be assess be those put in place by the previous Administration for pension credit . however , he be right ; we want as many people as possible to apply , even if some of they be not successful , for exactly the reason raise by the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) — we need awareness of pension credit to be high and we need to encourage claim , because a lot of people who be entitle be miss out . it be not always absolutely clear whether someone be entitle , for example if they be in receipt of attendance allowance . all the progress since September that I have speak about be a real achievement , but I be the first to say very clearly that it be far from job do . far too many people be still miss out on pension credit . we be already build on this winter ' s campaign , and that include write to all pensioner who make a new claim for housing benefit and who appear to be entitle to pension credit . in the long term , this Government be commit to bring together the administration of pension credit and housing benefit , make it easy for pensioner to get support . that be also a policy of previous administration at different time , even if deliver it be not prioritise . we will also undertake new research on what help boost take - up — that go to the question ask by the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills . there be a slight misunderstanding about people want to apply but be reluctant — the evidence do not support that significantly . the key problem be awareness of the system . the Treasury always say to every new government , " we have this jolly good idea . just get rid of the winter fuel payment and save yourself a lot of money . " we look at that when I be in the Department and eventually reject it base on two element of the impact assessment . first , there be the point about those who be right on the cusp of poverty — 80 % of they , as have be mention , will be damage by the policy . secondly , there be pension credit take - up . we get hammer either way , because if we push for pensioner to take up pension credit , the saving be lose and we spend more , but if they do not take it up , they end up in poverty . that be why we reject the idea and , I think , every other Government up until now have too . will the Minister have another review of that and ask his team at the DWP whether they should reject this policy now , because it will not work ? on the question of saving , this measure will make saving , even take into account the increase in take - up ; the evidence of that be very clear . I will also just reflect on the right hon . Gentleman ' s point that his party ' s Government do not take up the opportunity that the Treasury present to mean - test winter fuel payment . the truth be that the last Government and the new Labour regime before that allow pension credit to be erode year after year by inflation . since the period when he consider the measure , there have be over 50 % inflation erosion , so the policy of the previous Government be to cut the winter fuel payment year after year . in real term , I be afraid that be how inflation operate . we will not just carry out research ; we will put the evidence that it provide into practice . I welcome suggestion from right across the House on what more we can do to drive take - up of pension credit . my point relate to the cliff edge . Anne Addis from Cullompton be a 76 - year - old widow . her late husband ' s Army pension push she just £ 15 over the pension credit threshold . that mean that she be one of 130 , 000 people who be bad off than those on low income who continue to qualify for pension credit . will the Minister consider introduce a taper to get rid of that cliff edge ? we have all meet constituent who raise this issue , and the hon . member be right to say that there be challenge with the cliff edge . it be in the nature of the pension credit regime , because the regime be about a minimum income guarantee . People sometimes think about it as if it have a threshold , but it be about provide minimum guarantee of minimum income , so I do not think that that be an appropriate way forward , but I would be happy to discuss this with he , as it be always useful to discuss these issue . do the Minister agree with the Resolution Foundation , which I think he know very well , and its enlightening paper " Public Pivot " from January this year , which talk about big implication for living standard ? he may well know that document , although he do not actually write that one , for a change . it mention the winter fuel allowance and state : " tax rise on top of lacklustre economic growth make for a gloomy living standard outlook in 2025 . " be there not a direct correlation between living standard and this cruel cut to the most vulnerable in our society , whether in Swansea West or in the Wrekin in Shropshire ? I thank the right hon . member , not least for his kind word about a very impressive organisation that go from strength to strength under far well leadership than it have in the past . I do not want to get into the detail of economic forecast and living standard forecast — [ interruption . ] " please do " , member say . right — the reason why forecast of living standard and of growth be often low than we might like at the moment be that , although we talk about forecast as forward - look measure , what they be often actually do be look backwards at the disastrous growth this country have see — [ interruption . ] those be the fact about what be actually go on . the only way we be go to sort this country out be to get growth go once again , and that be what this Government be try to do — [ interruption . ] well , we actually be . we be currently see significantly fast wage growth than we have see for quite some time . rise — I must make some progress . I have take lot of intervention , and at some point even your patience may start to run out , Madam Deputy Speaker . as hon . member know , wide help be also available for pensioner . the warm home discount provide eligible low - income household across Great Britain with a £ 150 rebate on their winter energy bill . this winter we expect to find that over 3 million household , include over 1 million pensioner , have benefit . we have also set out plan to expand the scheme to cover a further 2 . 7 million household . we be provide £ 742 million in England to extend the household support fund for a further year , support all household , not just pensioner , with the cost of essential . the devolved government will receive consequential funding through the Barnett formula . around 40 % of property in Glastonbury and Somerton be not connect to the gas grid . they be more expensive to heat , and people experience more fuel poverty as a result . off - grid pensioner , who be particularly suffer , be obviously more reliant on their winter fuel payment . will the Minister commit to develop a rural winter fuel poverty strategy for those pensioner , who be suffer now ? I have hear from many member the point the hon . Member make about the different way people heat home , particularly in certain part of the country , include Northern Ireland . I would be happy to talk to she about that specific suggestion , have ask for suggestion early . as I say early , our top priority be to raise the state pension and to rescue the NHS , which pensioner in particular rely on . it be precisely because the Government have take some difficult choice that we be committed to deliver on the triple lock throughout this Parliament . it be true that target winter fuel payment save a bit over £ 1 billion a year , but spend on the state pension be forecast to rise by over £ 31 billion — indicate dissent . I have already engage with the right hon . member . spend on the state pension be forecast to rise by over £ 31 billion during this Parliament , which put that into context . what do this mean for individual pensioner ? the full new state pension be expect to rise by around £ 1 , 900 a year , and the basic state pension by around £ 1 , 500 , benefit over 12 million pensioner . then there be the health service , the state of which be the big betrayal of old generation today . the Conservatives leave pensioner far too often not receive the care and support they deserve and need . we be invest and reform the English NHS through the 10 - year plan by abolish NHS England so Ministers be accountable for the health service once again . for pensioner who have spend their life pay into the system , our priority be to ensure a resilient nhs that give back to they at a time when they need it most . during the general election campaign , we on the conservative side have the triple lock - plus policy to prevent pensioner in receipt of just a state pension from pay income tax . do the Minister recognise that million of pensioner in that position will have to start pay income tax , and be he happy with that ? the vast majority of pensioner start pay income tax under the previous government because they abolish the age - relate allowance for pensioner , so the taxing of pensioner be a decision take by the previous Government . the majority of pensioner pay income tax because of decision take by the previous Government . this be an Opposition day , so it would be rude not to talk about the opposition . it be hard to know where to start — maybe with the hypocrisy . it come in the general form of many Opposition Members claim that they be in favour of a small state , but oppose this targeting of winter fuel payment . worse , there be the more specific hypocrisy of campaign against this change , but not be honest about whether they would reverse it . will the Minister give way ? I will if the hon . Member will tell I whether he plan to reverse that change in government . do the Minister not agree that it be the hypocrisy from the Labour party , which do not include this policy in its manifesto at the general election ? while we be on broken promise , the hon . Member promise to tell I whether the Tory party policy be to reverse the change , and I have hear nothing on that front . I will come on to manifesto shortly . there be the specific hypocrisy of the Opposition campaign against the change have call for it in their own 2017 election manifesto . back then , they attack the winter fuel payment for be " pay regardless of need " , and that be before we get to the Leader of the Opposition ' s bold plan to means - test the state pension — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Minister have just say that , as it be an Opposition day debate , he will speak exclusively about what the opposition think and say . be it your understanding , Madam Deputy Speaker , that it be in order for a Minister at the Dispatch Box not to defend the track record of his own government ? that be not a point of order . I will return to the Conservatives ' policy , because I be just come to the bold plan set out by the Leader of the Opposition to means - test the state pension . apparently , she say , " that ' s exactly the sort of thing " we " will look at . " rise — no . apparently , mean - test the winter fuel payment be beyond the pale , but means - test the state pension — the bedrock of pensioner ’ income — be the future . the Leader of the Opposition ' s self - image be of a bold iconoclast , but means - test the state pension be not bold ; it be bonker . never mind what the conservative say they would do now , what about what they actually do ? let ' s talk about pensioner poverty . will the Minister give way ? I will not . pensioner poverty halve under the last Labour Government , but the Conservatives ' record be high pensioner poverty — an increase of 300 , 000 people on their watch . we be not pretend that all the problem face the country can be solve overnight , but we be honest that unless we tackle the big challenge and take some tough choice , they will not be solve at all . this be a Government raise the state pension , rescue the NHS and deliver for pensioner every single day . More ! I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be sure the Minister almost opposite I feel that it be a brave decision by the Conservatives on my right — in fact , from the noise off during the speech of their spokeslady , the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , it may even have be a bit quacker — to choose this topic for a debate . as the Minister highlight , pensioner poverty increase under the watch of the last Conservative Government . the Tories leave the economy in an absolute state . they completely crash it , leave the new Labour Government a massive mess to deal with . however — [ interruption . ] Don ' t worry ; I be come to some labour - bash now . we Liberal Democrats be deeply disappointed about Chancellor ' s botched autumn Budget , however , when she balance the book on the back of pensioner . yesterday the book be be balance on the back of people with disability throughout the United Kingdom . the scrapping of the winter fuel allowance mean 100 , 000 more pensioner in relative poverty . it have be estimate that approximately 800 , 000 pensioner who could benefit from pension credit have sadly not take advantage of it . conservative colleague to my right have highlight that there continue to be significant delay , and they be right to say so . when I have ask question about that , I have be tell that there be 90 , 000 claim in the queue , result in pensioner go through the winter unsure about whether it be safe to put on their heating . the Work and Pensions Committee , of which I be a member , receive evidence from a medic who say that when people get to the age of about 65 or 70 , they find that their body begin to become less resistant to cold weather , and they have a much great need for heating . that be why the winter fuel payment be and continue to be the right decision . in fact , I hope that the Labour party will listen to Unite , which have undertake survey highlight the fact that two third of pensioner be feel the cold more but choose not to put the heating on because of their fear about bill . a constituent from Tintinhull who be suffer from stage 4 stomach cancer contact I because he have recently have a gastrectomy , which have cause he considerable weight loss . despite that , he have now lose his winter fuel allowance , which be make it more difficult for he to keep his heating on as it cost he a lot more . do my hon . friend agree that the Government must urgently reassess exemption to ensure that all pensioner with cancer be eligible for the vital winter fuel allowance ? my hon . friend be spot on . in fact , we Liberal Democrats feel that the winter fuel allowance must be reintroduce across the board . the Liberal Democrats want the introduction of a social tariff that support pensioner in poverty and pensioner on benefit . we also want to ensure that the whole United Kingdom have a home insulation scheme that get people warm in their home , tackle climate change and give employment across the country for those who need it . we call upon member to back the motion and ensure that winter fuel payment go back to pensioner , where they should be . before I begin , will the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) , clarify she early comment ? do she not support pay rise for the armed force ? [ interruption . ] she be more than welcome to clarify ; I can see that she look a bit confused . the hon . Lady ask about something that I have never say , so I be surprised to hear it . I very much thank the hon . Lady for those comment . I know she vociferously criticise pay rise for public sector worker in her speech , so I be glad to have clarify that . the winter fuel payment be a policy that the Labour Government introduce in 1997 , and it stand as one of the great achievement of that Labour Administration . when it be bring in , pensioner poverty be significantly high than what we face today , and it make a real difference to many pensioner who be struggle with heating , eat , and many other living cost . along with many thing that that Government achieve , we have the short NHS waiting time in history , we bring crime down , and we create sure Start , which make a difference to many young people ' s life . we have record result in school , we introduce the Disability Discrimination Act 2005 , and we bring in the first ever Climate Change Act in 2008 . all those thing make a huge difference to the life of people in this country , in particular pensioner . do the hon . Lady really think that go through Tony Blair ' s great hit be any comfort to pensioner on £ 13 , 500 who lose their winter fuel payment in 2024 ? I thank the hon . member for his comment . it be important to stress that this be a policy that the Labour party bring in , and the conservative party vote against it at the time . the inheritance that this Government get from the previous Government be so dire — we really can not forget how big a black hole £ 22 billion be . the economic situation of this country as a whole , and the finance that the Government inherit , mean that even the Labour party know we have to make tough choice that we would never have make if we have have the inheritance we give to the Conservatives in 2010 . do the hon . Lady accept that there be a real problem with Labour ' s framing of its choice ? Labour Members have make out that there be an absolute necessity to get rid of the winter fuel payment , but at the same time they be spend £ 8 million on GB Energy . they be spend God know how much on the Chagos island — they will not tell we — and hundred of million on pay rise for train driver . do she accept that the pensioner find it rather confuse that there be a complete necessity to cut winter fuel payment , when the Government be splurge cash on all manner of other weird project ? one reason why I decide to get into politic — I be quite happy do something else — be because I be look around this country and see the huge systemic issue that be face we . none of those issue would go away if the Government just say , " we ' re go to keep give out pot of money to people , " and the hon . Lady know that . as a proud member of the Labour party , I support people receive fair pay for their fair work , and I support the rise that we give to our nurse , our soldier and our teacher . I be very proud of that . we face so many systemic issue that we know we need to make some big change . thing such as GB Energy , which be in our manifesto that million of people vote for , be a huge change that will make a difference . my hon . friend talk about manifesto commitment , and it be a clear manifesto commitment of this government that we would provide the triple lock throughout this Parliament — something that be only ever suspend under the conservative party . do she agree that the £ 1 , 500 increase to the state pension that pensioner will see over the course of this Parliament will be a good thing , and put cash into the pocket of pensioner that they do not have under the previous Government ? my hon . friend be exactly right . the triple lock be a serious commitment that we be utterly commit to , and it will make a difference to every single pensioner in this country — far more than try to pretend that we do not face the systemic problem that this country face . will the hon . member give way ? I be go to go back to GB Energy , but why not ? the hon . member be be very generous with intervention . she talk about fairness in pay . those pensioner also work all through their life and also deserve fairness . what be fair about the hundred of million be give to train driver as oppose to what have be take away from pensioner ? what be fair about the £ 18 billion , or whatever the figure be , be spend on the Chagos island , compare with what pensioner deserve ? what be fair be a 4 . 1 % rise in the state pension and a 5 . 5 % to 6 % rise for our soldier , teacher and nurse , and I will say that as many time as I need to say it . many people in this country have be grapple with skyrocket energy bill , which have cause real poverty . those bill have skyrocket largely because we be at the mercy of international market , so it be vital that we take back sovereign control of our energy and energy price , and GB Energy be a vital part of that . the interim chief executive officer of GB Energy have say that reduce energy bill " be not in the remit of GB Energy " , so how be GB Energy go to help with energy bill ? GB Energy will turbocharge renewable across the country . once we have that , we will have more control over our energy system and , as the hon . Lady know , we will have control over what happen with bill . my hon . friend mention GB Energy , which be headquarter in Scotland . I note that there be a Scottish National party Member in the Chamber , the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) , who I be sure will shortly make a passionate speech about the issue . when she do so , I hope she will remember that the winter fuel payment be already devolve to the Scottish Government and that if they want to follow a different policy , they be able to , perhaps use some the additional funding — record funding of almost £ 5 billion extra — that they get in the Budget this year . I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . I will now turn to a quote — [ interruption . ] I hope Opposition Members will settle down . the quote state : " we will look at Winter Fuel Payments , the large benefit pay to pensioner , in this context . the benefit be pay regardless of need , give money to wealthy pensioner when work people on low income do not get similar support . so we will mean - test Winter Fuel Payments , focus assistance on the least well - off pensioner , who be most at risk of fuel poverty . " do the shadow Secretary of State recognise that quote ? no , and the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) do not appear to recognise it either . it be take directly from the 2017 conservative party manifesto , which I understand both member stand on . would they like to stand up now and say whether they regret do so ? last July , the hon . Lady stand on an election manifesto that do not include the removal of winter fuel payment to pensioner . be she proud of the fact that she be elect on a manifesto that say something completely different from what she be support the Government in do now ? I be fully commit to bring forward all our manifesto commitment , include the triple lock for pensioner , fix the systemic issue face the country and tackle the backlog in the NHS . our record be something to be proud of so far . rise — we can carry on with our history lesson — [ interruption . ] I be sorry , do the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) wish to intervene ? I intervene simply to inform the hon . Lady that it be David Cameron who introduce the triple lock . I believe it be then suspend , but I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . in his early remark , he raise the valid point that no Member of this House should be receive the winter fuel payment , and he speak about the very poor in this country face that payment be take away . we have protect the very poor pensioner , but whenever there be a threshold , there will always be people who fall on the other side of it . I and my colleague have be very aware of people come to we who need we to help they find alternative source of help . rise — rise — I will just make a bit of progress and then I will let the right hon . Member and the hon . member intervene . I do not think there be a single Labour Member who be not conscious of the impact of the decision that we , as a Government , be make . we rightly laud our achievement , but we recognise that we have have to make tough decision . pensioner be not the only group face poverty in this country . child poverty have rocket over the past decade to a shamefully high level . not one of those child ever receive a winter fuel payment . plenty of other have be face the effect of poverty , and shamefully that include a rocket number of people in work . as a Labour Government , it be our task to ensure that we be end the scourge of poverty once and for all , whether for child , people in work or pensioner . be one of the main cause of child poverty not the two - child benefit cap that the conservative party introduce and the Labour party be continue ? child poverty and the two - child benefit cap be unfortunately sad sign of the legacy that we have inherit . we need to fix the foundation of the economy so that we can start to take measure such as that that may have an impact . we have set up the child poverty taskforce so that we can start to look at that and ensure we make a real and significant difference over the next few year . we have inherit a shameful situation , and we be work very hard to do what we can to change it . I turn to the triple lock , which I and other hon . member have speak about . the commitment to the triple lock be pivotal ; it will see the state pension of thousand of people , include people in my constituency , increase by more than £ 470 this year . additionally , as a Government we have run a campaign to increase the uptake of pension credit , mean that we have have an 81 % increase in claim , which be good to see . we have also extend the household support fund , so that help be available for all age group . I appreciate the hon . member refer to pension credit uptake . if all the people who be eligible to take up pension credit do so , how much will it cost the Government ? the costing take into account the uplift in the number of people claim pension credit , as they be entitle to do . do my hon . friend agree that the change make to the winter fuel payment to secure it for those most in need actually save £ 1 billion net , with the extra cost of the rise in those claim pension credit ? do she also agree that the Government ' s choice across the board mean that we be able to make the decision to protect the triple lock , nearly double the warm home discount and get the NHS back on its foot ? it be pretty shocking that we have so far not hear one example of how the conservative party would make different choice to do those same thing . sadly , it be a feature of this debate that it be very easy for member across the Opposition Benches to say , " you shouldn ' t do something , " but very difficult to say what should be do instead . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will keep go , because I have be speak for a long time and I know that lot of member want to get in . I be terribly sorry . to cut to the chase , the Government be determined to fix the foundation of this country , sort out the systemic issue that we face , tackle the cost of live and deliver an NHS fit for everybody in this country . this winter , pensioner across Beaconsfield , Marlow and the south Bucks village feel abandon by the Labour Government . many across this country vote for a Labour Government in good faith , think that they would actually have a reduction in their energy bill of £ 300 , only to discover that many pensioner be go to lose their winter fuel payment , which be a lifeline to pensioner , who have serve their community and work hard their whole life . it be bring in by a Labour Government and never abolish during the entire time that the Conservatives and the coalition be in power . there be a reason for that : it be fair , equitable and ensure that no one be leave behind . the reason why it be not scrap before be that a means - test mechanism be not in place , so it be quite shocking to see that the first act by the new Chancellor be to scrap a winter fuel payment that Labour initially bring in without an impact assessment . will the hon . Lady make it clear whether it be the policy of the conservative party to reintroduce a universal winter fuel payment at the next election ? it be clear that we do not get rid of it in the first place , and we have 14 year . the interesting thing that we keep hear — do the hon . Lady hear the question ? yes or no ? I think our record speak for itself — we have 14 year . it be very interesting that the Labour party talk about tough choice . for pensioner , turn off the heat — be make to choose between heating and eating — be a tough choice . that be a choice that this Labour Government have make for the most vulnerable . my hon . friend be correct that this be about action , not word . labour ' s decision on the winter fuel payment be not in their manifesto ; it be bring in with a piece of legislation that be vote on without an impact assessment and then put into place . yesterday , we hear an announcement about disability that be also not mention in Labour ' s manifesto . it be bring forward with a gap before the impact assessment — we will see that in a couple of week ' time — and it will then be take through . do my hon . friend agree that the british public be be take for fool ? these be not transparent policy or policy that be put forward in a manifesto ; they be be bring forward later on , under the guise of try to do something well . my hon . friend make an excellent point . this be about transparency and keep our promise to the british public , and it lay bare the truth about this Government . the hon . Lady talk about transparency and honesty , but be it not true that the conservative party conceal the true state of the public finance from the Labour party when we be prepare for Government ? do they not need to reflect on their own spirit of public service and decency ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution , although the Office for Budget Responsibility contradict what he be say . the truth about this Government be that they talk a tough talk , but they be the master of outsource every tough decision for other to make . we see that in the tough choice they have force on small business across this country — whether to stop hire , cut staff , raise price , or close altogether in order to deal with this black hole that the Chancellor have create through her socialist spending spree — but we see it first in stark term in the way that the Government treat pensioner . the Chancellor choose — yes , choose — to make pensioner make the tough choice between eating and heating . she be not able to be tough with the train driver union , and she be not able to be tough with the Energy Secretary to stop he waste £ 8 billion on GB Energy or £ 11 billion on overseas climate aid , but she be able to be tough with the pensioner of this country . she be a Chancellor who can be tough with the weak , but melt before the union and her Cabinet colleague . this be a Government who have abandon evidence - base policymaking , such as by attack parent who send their child to independent school , engage in a tax raid despite the clear evidence that it will damage the life chance of young people in both the state and the private sector . the hon . Lady talk about abandon evidence - base policy . could she set out the basis for the conservative party abandon the UK ' s net zero target ? I thank the hon . member for his contribution and for his advocacy on this issue . [ interruption . ] I will respond as I go through my speech ; he have make a very sound point . this be about tough choice . we all have to make tough choice , and be in government be hard . those of we on either side of the House who have be in government know that it be difficult , but we make choice , and then we be hold responsible . conservative Members understand that , because we be hold responsible . on 20 November 2023 , when I be the Paymaster General , I make some comment about the winter fuel payment . the right hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , who be now Chief Secretary to the Treasury , write to the Chancellor at the time and ask whether we could confirm that we would not be remove the winter fuel payment , because pensioner would be deeply concerned . my view , have have that put on a list of option when I be Chief Secretary , be that there be no way it would be right to do so . I know , for example , that 71 % of pensioner with a disability would lose that value and completely necessary extra funding — there be not a rationing mechanism that be efficient for the poor pensioner . I expect to be hold to account , which be why I do not do it . I be therefore somewhat surprised when , 25 day into a Labour Government , they reverse the policy that they have challenge I about several month before . my right hon . friend make an excellent point , and one that I be go to make . this be about choice , and it be about the most vulnerable — the disabled pensioner who we do not have a way to test for . there be no mechanism to protect they , and I be very glad that my right hon . friend choose to protect the most vulnerable disabled pensioner . by protect everyone , we ensure that the most vulnerable be protect , and that be a tough choice that we make when in government . to be honest , I expect a Labour Government to make the same kind of choice , to protect the most vulnerable disabled pensioner , who have be negatively impact by this choice . I would have expect well from a Labour Government . those of we who have be in government know that when new Ministers come to power — perhaps as innocent and heartfelt as the hon . member for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) — often idea that have be reject by their predecessor be put before they . as my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) describe , official float proposal previously reject in the hope that new Ministers , in their naive urgency , will embrace they . I feel a little sorry for the hon . member for Swansea West , actually : I suspect that it be his innocence , his naivety and his lack of wit and wisdom that get the well of he — and I say that kindly — for it allow his official to float a policy as hopeless as this one , which be reject by those with wise head , such as my right hon . friend . my right hon . friend make a good point . when we try to do the right thing , oftentime we make a choice that have adverse consequence . what be tell about this decision be that an impact assessment be not publish in advance . many member from all part of the House be not fully aware of the consequence or impact of this policy , whereby 10 million pensioner have lose out this year while cope with rise energy cost and rise price . nearly 3 million of those pensioner be aged over 80 . some 1 . 6 million pensioner with a disability be now lose out . this be a choice that the Chancellor could have avoid by be tough with her Cabinet colleague or the union , but she choose to be tough with the weak . this be a choice where the evidence point to a terrible impact , but she choose to be tough with the weak . this be a weak Chancellor in a Government who put ideology before evidence and politic before people , but it be never too late to change . in politic , in my opinion , it matter hugely how we make argument . my generation of politician , many of we newly elect , have grow up in an era of ceaseless turbulence . our world have become more insecure , our economy have flatline , and our democracy be sometimes strained . that mean we have responsibility as elect politician in how we make argument , and that matter for this debate . first , over several decade this House have cede too much power to unelected and sometimes unaccountable body — agency , quango and administrator . elect representative must have the power to change the thing for which the public hold they accountable . secondly , the public be tired of be tell that we have no choice , that our hand be tie and that we must do this because lawyer or economist say so . our job be to make argument to the public on the basis of principle and not solely of necessity . after all , why vote , if the people we vote for be not in charge , but lawyer , economist , quango or agency be ? what be democracy for , if the people we elect do not control the thing that affect our life ? to restore trust in politic , we must show that politic matter . that be why it be vital that we articulate our choice in term of principle . rise — hopefully , what I be about to say will answer the hon . Gentleman ' s point . [ interruption . ] if it do not , he be welcome to come in . let I make clear the principle behind the reform that we be debate today : those who need support to heat their home must get it . nobody should be cold at home because they can not afford to turn on their heating . when Gordon Brown introduce the winter fuel payment — I entirely agree with everything the hon . Gentleman have just say , but I be sure that , like I , he have receive hundred , if not thousand , of message from pensioner say that they be suffer and can not heat their home . if his point be one of principle , then clearly he must vote to overturn this policy so that the people who I be sure be contact he as well as I will be able to heat their home next winter , as they be unable to do this time round . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . conveniently , I shall be respond to exactly that point in a few minute , but if he feel that I have not do so , he be welcome to intervene again . give that the state pension have rise by £ 900 and will rise again by as much as £ 1 , 900 over the course of this Parliament , the Government ' s change target the winter fuel payment on the basis of the principle of need . that be the right principle . I do not believe that taxpayer should foot the bill for pensioner with million of pound to receive winter fuel payment . it be true that some donate the money to charity , but many do not . accord to the columnist Fraser Nelson : " a millionaire I know have a tradition every year : he buy a bottle of vintage wine with his winter fuel payment and invite friend to drink it . " target the winter fuel payment be not just about the public finance ; it anchor and preserve the policy in the right moral principle — the principle of need . it protect the winter fuel payment for those who need it most . some object that although the principle of need be the right one , the change set too low a threshold . that have not be my experience , and here I come to the point make by the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) . I represent more people of pensionable age than most member , and many of they be struggle . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way at this point . in town such as Hindley Green and Hindley , Abram and Platt Bridge , Ashton and Orrell , pensioner who have work all their life be face acute and sometimes painful challenge . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , at this point . order . may I remind member that it be up to the Member on his foot to decide whether to take intervention ? the hon . Gentleman should show some respect to a pensioner ! I do . I believe in lay out the argument , and once I have do so , in a couple of minute , the right hon . Gentleman will be welcome to intervene . that , I think , be partly what the House be for . after the announcement of this policy , I immediately enter into a partnership with Wigan Council to ensure that every pensioner I represent who be eligible for pension credit and help from the household support fund receive every single penny for which they be eligible . I make it clear to my constituent that I would not rest until my most vulnerable pensioner be protect . in recent month , Wigan council ' s fantastic income maximisation team have secure almost £ 8 million in benefit that would not otherwise have be pay to Wiganers . I have invite the team to all the coffee morning that I host with resident every month , and these alone have secure ten of thousand of pound in benefit for the people I represent . I have encounter much the same story again and again . so many pensioner be convince that they be not eligible for pension credit because they have never receive a penny of benefit in their life , and so many do not know about the household support fund , but it turn out that they be eligible . opposition member never want they to receive this benefit , but we have make sure that they get what they need and deserve . it be heartwarme to hear someone make a speech base on his principle , and the hon . Gentleman have make it clear that it be his principle that will inform his vote on this topic . can he articulate , very clearly , what principle tell he that someone on £ 13 , 500 be too rich to receive a winter fuel payment ? if the hon . Gentleman will allow I a few more minute , I will come to the exact question of the threshold at which pension credit be award and at which , therefore , someone be eligible for the winter fuel payment . in order to reach the most vulnerable people , who be often the hard to reach because they be not on Facebook and be not come to my coffee morning , I write to more than 5 , 000 pensioner to ensure that they receive the support they deserve . let I end by make a broad point . today ' s debate have underscore a simple truth about Conservative Members . Theirs be no long the party with the strength and courage to lead , whether in assert the sovereignty of this place or in make argument with principle . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not . the Conservatives know that the winter fuel payment need to change — they say so in their manifesto in 2017 — but they do nothing about it . they know that NHS England be duplicate , waste taxpayer ' money and fail to drive up standard , but they do nothing about it . they know that flooding be get bad in place such as Platt Bridge , Ashton and Abram in my constituency , but they do nothing about it . let I give an even more egregious example from this week . the shadow Secretary of State for Justice , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , have stomp his foot and shake his head about new guidance issue by the Sentencing Council . the Lord Chancellor have be clear that independent agency should not make policy ; this Chamber should . however , what the shadow Secretary of State for Justice be unwilling to confront be the fact that his party welcome that guidance . the unequal treatment in the guidance have not change , and he know that . the shadow Secretary of State for Justice typify what the conservative party have become , and that have be exemplify in this debate . conservative Members come to this Chamber shake with outrage and spoil for a spat , but they forget that they have be in charge . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way , as I be come to the end . today ' s debate be another reminder that Conservative Members be grow comfortable with opposition . they prefer shout , stomp and shake with outrage to run the country , and that be the difference between we and they . we believe in calmly but doggedly drive the change this country vote for . we believe in stand alongside work people , and deliver change that benefit they . conservative Members can put on their Britney mic and prophesise about abstraction , they can stomp their foot , they can wave bit of paper and they can get buzz cut in a bid to convince work people that they have change , but they have not . we be the party of work people and of change , and change be what we will continue to deliver . I have be reflect that I have be in this Chamber for 10 year , and for most of that time I , like many of my hon . friend now sit on the Opposition Benches , be of course seat on the Government Benches . the hon . member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) claim that we on the Opposition side now resort to stomp and outrage , whereas the Government be act calmly and doggedly , but I must say to the new hon . member that if I experience anything over the last 10 year , it be that the faux outrage from the Labour Opposition on this side over 10 long year be all about the sort of issue we be raise today . my hon . friend the Member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) remind Labour Members that , in the 14 year that the Conservatives be in government , we do not remove the winter fuel payment . furthermore , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) add the benefit of his experience , and explain that he have look at this matter when he be a Minister , but conclude that it would be wrong morally and fiscally to remove the winter fuel payment . so I say very gently to hon . member for Makerfield that we on the Opposition side of the House have , for too many year , have to put up with all the false outrage and the anger that hon . member who be now in government show we over the year . however , I can tell they that the anger come to the Labour Government will not be from my hon . friend but from the pensioner in the hon . member ' s constituency , and indeed in every constituency that now have a Labour MP . the hon . Member be reflect on his party ' s record in office and how pensioner may feel about it . how do he think pensioner feel about the record of 300 , 000 more pensioner be in poverty thank to his Administration over the last 14 year ? I be afraid that the hon . member miss the point . the whole point of this debate be to acknowledge that there be poor and vulnerable people in our society , and that we keep the winter fuel payment precisely to ensure that the most vulnerable pensioner in our society be assist . what we have hear from Labour party member — the very Labour party member who say during the election that they care for the most vulnerable and the poor in society — remind of a comment that they once make about the conservative party . if there be any nasty party , the removal of the winter fuel payment and the total absence of Labour mp in the Chamber be proof positive that there be only one nasty party today : the Labour party . some of my constituent vote at the last general election for a Labour party that promise to help work people and promise to be the party for the weak in society . at no point do any of my constituent who put a cross next to the South Leicestershire Labour party candidate think that a Labour Government would remove the winter fuel payment , yet they do that within week of take office . at the same time , they cruelly increase salary for those who do not require increase . the train driver be demand exorbitant salary increase , which the conservative resist when in government . the new Labour Government capitulate , take money from those who need it — the most vulnerable in society — and give it to those who do not need it . that be a betrayal of the british electorate , when the Labour party say it have the most vulnerable people in mind . will the hon . member confirm that he oppose pay rise for the armed force ? the hon . Lady have raise that point already and erroneously say that my hon . friend the Member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) have misspoken . the only person who have misspoken this afternoon , and continue to do so , be the hon . Lady . the Conservatives have be very clear . last year , when the Labour Government choose to give train driver an exorbitant pay increase , we highlight that that be a poor decision precisely because it have a negative impact on the most vulnerable in society , the very people we be speak about today — pensioner . my hon . friend be make an impassioned speech and excellent point . it be about not just the pay rise for train driver , but the fact that they be not ask for any saving in return . in fact , the only people who be ask to make a sacrifice be the poor pensioner . indeed . my hon . friend continue to make very sensible point . I be sure pensioner watch this debate will , once and for all , see that in 14 year of conservative government we have protect the most vulnerable and weak in society at the forefront of our mind . I appreciate the hon . Gentleman give way , but I want to press he one more time , because I do not feel that he answer the question from my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) . he make play of the fact that public sector worker be give a pay rise . I want absolute clarity here : be he say that he do not support pay rise for soldier , nurse and teacher ? a simple yes or no will do . I will give the hon . Gentleman a very clear and unambiguous response : I support pensioner and the weak in society . it be disgraceful that it be a Labour Government who have take away money that be need by the most vulnerable in society . I will end where the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Faversham and Mid Kent , end . I ask , as she do , what be all this for ? why deny the weak and most vulnerable elderly people in our society money they desperately need to keep their house warm ? I add , as she do , that to govern be to choose — the idiom we have hear time and again . well , the Labour party in government be show its true colour to the british electorate . it have never be a party for the work people , the most vulnerable or the weak , and today , it clearly demonstrate that it be most certainly not a party for our pensioner . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) , a Member for whom I have a lot of fondness , but with whom I be afraid I be go to part way quite considerably this afternoon . the point have be make by Opposition Members about the difficulty of government , so I will repeat a point I have make in previous Opposition day debate . member on the Opposition Benches , for the time be , have considerably more experience of government than member on the Government Benches . I believe that regrettably , many of the action my own party take during our time in opposition prolong that , but as a result , I and many member on these Benches gain a huge amount of experience of what real opposition look like , as well as what flawed opposition look like . I gently remind Opposition Members — not for the first time in this place — that if this be what they consider opposition to look like , they be go to spend a lot more time on those Benches than they might wish . it be often say that any day in government be well than any day in opposition . I be sure member on the Opposition Benches be very much enjoy the opportunity to repeat argument we have hear numerous time already . but every single day in government be also a time when we must make decision , and we on this side of the House — in this government — have be very clear about the decision we have take . we have not shirk from it . we have not hide it . our decision on the winter fuel allowance be announce in this place . it be not an easy decision — far from it . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be very , very close to make a point , but why not ? there be more people wish to speak on the Opposition Benches than on the Government Benches , so as someone who have many teacher in the family — we have mention teacher in this debate already — I will give way and say , " it ' s not my time you ' re waste . " I thank the hon . gentleman for give way , but I actually do not think it be anyone ' s time we be waste , see as we be discuss such an important topic . he talk about a decision that be make . I be just wonder , if Government Members have their time again , would they make the same decision ? I would , and here ' s why : when there be difficult decision to be take , we can not shirk from they . when the Government shirk from those decision , they end up with the grotesque chaos of enter a general election have accrue £ 22 billion of expenditure that there have not be sufficient allocation for , which be why someone else have to pick up the piece . the hon . Gentleman look almost proud of the decision to withdraw winter fuel payment . he talk about take tough decision — can I offer he a really easy alternative ? scrap GB Energy , which do not produce any energy ; do not give Mauritius money and sovereign british territory ; and restore the winter fuel payment . I thank the hon . gentleman for his talking point from conservative campaign headquarter — they have be very much receive on this side of the House . I do not relish have to take money away from anyone . it be one of the most difficult decision that any of we will take . I hope that all of we in all part of the House — every single person here — believe they be do what be good for their constituent . I believe that every single member on the Opposition Benches believe that what they be do be good for their constituent . I do not believe that what they be do be good for my constituent , but those be argument I dare say we will continue to have vigorously over the next four year in this place . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be about to get to the thrust of my argument , if the hon . Lady would not mind . we have be talk about the winter fuel allowance and money be take from pensioner , which be a serious point . I wish to talk briefly about what happen four year ago , when , in this place , the Social Security ( up - rating of benefit ) Act 2021 be pass . that be a very serious decision that the previous Government have to take . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) for some of the enlightening research that he commission from the House of Commons Library . in 2021 , the Conservative Government make a decision , follow the unusual turbulence in the employment market after covid , that the triple lock would become , for one year only , a double lock . the Conservatives , who be very keen to say that they be the party of the triple lock , turn it into a double lock . I think that it be fair to say — as many member do at the time — that it be a very unusual time in the market — will the hon . member give way on that point ? I would be happy to give way , but I be come to the thrust of my argument . as a result , the state pension do not increase by 8 . 3 % , as it could have do that year . it instead rise by the absolute minimum of 2 . 5 % , and that have have cumulative effect . in year one , pensioner be £ 470 bad off . in year two , they be £ 520 bad off . and in year three , they be £ 560 bad off . as I want to be reasonable in this debate , I make it clear that the Labour party do not support the 8 . 3 % rise , because we believe , as a reasonable opposition who go on to win the general election , that it be not within the bound of what would normally be consider a rise in wage and be because of the impact of covid . however , member on the Labour Benches — I be sadly not one of they at the time — support a Lords amendment that ask for the covid - specific element to be strip out to allow the conservative party to maintain their manifesto commitment to a triple lock . that be vote down by the conservative party . Labour Members have be attempt to be reasonable and consider in opposition and in government about the impact of spending on pensioner . conservative Members be argue as if they have never have to take difficult decision that would have impact on pensioner . we have all have to take difficult decision , and we will all continue to do so . I thank the hon . member for give way and for get to the thrust of his argument . he keep refer to market turbulence , but I think he mean the once - in - a - lifetime pandemic . we have repeatedly say how difficult governing be . the fact be that we would have make different choice from the one that the current Government be make right now . I thank the hon . member for his point , but I feel like he have not really listen to what I be say . the point that I be make be that , at the time , the Government of the day have an opportunity to strip out the covid effect . I have already use the phrase " covid effect " and I have refer to the once - in - a - generation pandemic — my Lord , do we not all live through it ? none of we have forget about it . but instead of strip out the covid effect , the Conservative Government argue that that would be too difficult , so , instead , there be a 2 . 5 % rise . that have an effect on pensioner , but I do not feel that the conservative party have have the same reckoning with that difficult decision that we on Labour Benches have have with the decision that we have take . to be honest , I be absolutely delighted to hear the first Member on the government Benches acknowledge that there be not a fictitious £ 22 billion black hole that they be try to fill , and that they have understand , finally , that the effect of covid and the war in Ukraine be part of the issue they be try to deal with . on the contrary . of course there be difficulty and complexity cause by a war on the continent of Europe and by a once - in - a - generation pandemic , but they do not cause the previous Government to spend £ 6 billion on asylum hotel that they have not account for . the point be often make about train driver . as Labour Members have point out , it be not just train driver who receive pay rise . I be not go to get into this , but while I be here I might as well declare that I be very proud to have be a serve trade union official for Unison , represent care worker , hospital cleaner and catering staff , who all receive a reasonable pay rise under this government . incidentally , it be a pay rise recommend by an independent pay review body that be ignore and leave on the shelf by the previous Government . rise — I be very respectful of the hon . member , and I will bring he in in a moment . rise — rise — I will be reasonable and give way to member , but first I want to point out that some of the money that have be save will be spend on the national health service . there be £ 25 . 6 billion extra for the NHS this year . unfortunately , I have have the bad luck of be in accident and emergency with a number of family member in recent month . in this place we often talk about the impact of the national health service struggle , and what I see there shock I . I have see child sleep on their coat on the waiting room floor for 12 hour . I have see pensioner on trolley in corridor for day , cry out for help . it be an appalling legacy — order . I remind member that we be debate the winter fuel payment . it be perfectly in order to try to put that in context , but perhaps we should steer away from a debate on the NHS . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for your reminder . I have come to the end of my section on context , so let I bring my speech to a close . [ interruption . ] my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) make the good point that I should give way . I thank the hon . member for allow I to intervene . there be no doubt that we all have sympathy with people who be find the cost of live a challenge . but as Madam Deputy Speaker have correctly remind we , today we be address the most vulnerable people in society who be no long able to earn money — pensioner . the Opposition ' s question of why the Government make the choice to increase the salary of those still work be valid . the point be that pensioner be unable to earn , and be poor at the £ 13 , 500 limit . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention , but those in receipt of pension credit be still receive winter fuel allowance , and all will benefit from this party ' s total commitment to the triple lock . my hon . Friend mention the triple lock and the very tough decision that the opposition take when in government , but what have be the cumulative effect of that for all pensioner in this country to date ? as I mention , my hon . friend commission research from the Library . the cumulative effect overall will be somewhere in the realm of £ 1 , 500 per pensioner . as I say , be I a Member in 2021 , I believe that I would have agree that 8 . 3 % be an unlikely increase . however , the Conservative Government be happy to raise it by 10 . 1 % and then 8 . 5 % in subsequent year . there be clearly a bit of dissonance . rise — as I have say , the opposition ' s time be be take up , not mine , so I will draw this entertaining speech to a close . I be pleased that Opposition member be proud of their position on the winter fuel payment . I be very happy for they . but under their government , the winter fuel allowance be never increase . by my own assessment , it go down by around a third in real term ; the Minister say around 50 % , and it be a matter of public record that he be far well at number than I , so I defer to he . if the opposition care about the most vulnerable , they also have to care about our national health service and support the action be take on the triple lock , and they must consider why in 14 year of government the winter fuel allowance be increase zero time . rise — order . around 15 member still want to speak . the wind - up will start at 6 . 35 pm , so if everyone be to get in , perhaps some thought could be give to the length of contribution . after such a huge election victory by a supposedly progressive party , it be disappointing to I and many of my constituent that , despite the financial situation that the Government inherit , one of their first act be to strip vital support from many of the poor pensioner in our society . I be sure that many of we across the House have hundred of email from concerned pensioner , worried about how they would afford their energy bill this winter . strip pensioner of this allowance be the wrong thing to do . the Government say that the removal of winter fuel payment would allow money to be spend in other area , but as with other attempt to raise money such as increase employer ' national insurance contribution , any saving will be offset , as point out by the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) , by cold , hungry and unwell pensioner add to the strain on GPs and social service . it be morally and economically a poor decision . one of my constituent , Patricia , write to I about how furious she be that the winter fuel allowance have be take away . she be no long eligible for winter fuel payment , but neither be she eligible for benefit or pension credit . she work in the NHS for over 40 year , but her NHS pension be not large , and she have be a widow for over 10 year so she be manage on a small , single income . because her husband die when she be 54 , she be not entitle to a widow ' s pension , either . she write to I say : " it be always the middle people who be squeeze , whose pip be make to squeak , the easy target " . I could give numerous other example of pensioner in a similar position to Patricia who do not know what to do . in January , I hold a cost of live advice surgery in Midsomer Norton where I bring together organisation and charity such as Wessex Water and Mind to provide a one - stop shop for constituent to come to I with their concern about bill and benefit . the majority of those who attend the surgery be pensioner anxious about the cost of their utility bill or confuse about their eligibility for various payment . More than 2 million pensioner currently live in poverty — that be unacceptable . the pressure that they be feel will only be heighten by yesterday ' s welfare reform announcement . I have already receive a deluge of email from constituent worried about the likely impact . loss of winter fuel payment , change to personal independence payment and increase to national insurance for charity and social care provider all pile the pressure on the least well - off in our country while the Government kick tricky decision like fix social care into the long grass . the cost of living crisis be go nowhere , and remove winter fuel payment be just another example of a decision that penalise some of the most vulnerable . I start by pay tribute to the pensioner in my constituency . they have work hard all their life and make immeasurable contribution to our community by volunteer for other and support family member and friend through hardship and sickness . my generation owe they a great debt , and they deserve well than what have become the norm under the Tories . tory mismanagement see spiral inflation and a £ 22 billion black hole in the nation ' s finance . tory mismanagement see an NHS on its knee , with the long waiting time on record and a social care system that be not fit for purpose . rise — I be not into the thrust of my argument yet , but I will give way . I refer the hon . gentleman to the comment make by the hon . member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) , who acknowledge that it be indeed the covid pandemic and the war in Ukraine that cause such a problem with the UK finance . the hon . Lady will know that , when it come to the NHS , the long waiting time be impact by the pandemic , but the long waiting time on record prior to the pandemic be see the day before it , because of conservative mismanagement . the Conservatives do not have a record that they should feel proud of on that matter , or on the economy . will the hon . member give way ? I be finish on the intervention that I just take ; I might then come to another . many constituent in Wirral West really suffer through Tory mismanagement on the economy and on public service . that mismanagement see a status quo fail our pensioner and fail all of we . get the country back on track require we to support those who need it most . no one in my constituency think that the very rich in society like Sir Richard Branson need Government support to get by . there be probably unanimity across the Chamber that Richard Branson do not need the winter fuel payment , but it be the poor pensioner — those who be earn just above £ 13 , 500 — who be lose out . let we not have the nonsense about Richard Branson or people swig champagne ; let we actually talk about the people who be suffer and will be go into hospital because they be cold and may end up die . those be the people we should be talk about . I will come to that , but I gently make the point , as be just say , that the Conservatives be pay Sir Richard Branson the winter fuel allowance every year . they could have change that , but they do not . rise — I will take intervention — I be happy to do so — but I will make some progress first . hon . member may have hear early that the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) — I do not believe that he be currently in his seat — say it be nonsense for he to be receive the winter fuel allowance . I think he reveal — it be news to I — that the Conservative Government have have plan to means - test it . I will be interested if those who wish to intervene would confirm whether he be right . member on the Conservative Benches have say that they do not think Richard Branson should have be receive the winter fuel payment . they talk about those above £ 13 , 000 . if the conservative party have be so concerned about the very poor pensioner , pension credit would not have be the most underclaimed benefit in the welfare system , with 700 , 000 people not claim it . if they really care about the most vulnerable pensioner , would they not have do more about that ? my hon . friend make a good point . there be incredible uptake under this government because we want to see the poor pensioner access the support they be entitle to . will the hon . Gentleman take my intervention ? I will , but I have a very neat point and so the hon . Gentleman will appreciate why I will not take his intervention right now . the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) say it be not all about people quaff champagne , but one conservative councillor lambaste I for the decision and for take away his champagne money . I do not think it can be right for public money to be use in that way while the pressure on vulnerable pensioner and work people be so great . rise — I will take intervention in a moment . hon . member have mention those who be just above the threshold . they will therefore share my relief that this Government have put hundred of million of pound into the household support fund , which can help those worried about their bill if they be just below the threshold . I will give way to the hon . member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) first and then to the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) . I thank the hon . member for finally give way . he have win his campaign to remove the winter fuel payment from Sir Richard Branson , but if I take he back a little early in his speech , he paint a picture of the sorry state that he claim this country be in when he take over . just let we suppose that and run with his argument , which he must believe : why do he think now be the time to also take away the winter fuel payment ? the hon . Gentleman use the word " suppose " and " sorry state " . it be no wonder Conservative Members lose ; they be in total denial about their failure for this country . now be the right time to end the status quo , end the incessant decline under the Conservatives and put a huge amount of investment back into our NHS . I , for one , be proud that we have have five month of fall waiting time . I want Conservative member to welcome such good news for our NHS — news that help all the people in this country . the hon . Gentleman be very generous in give way . I have listen carefully to the speech this afternoon with respect to our tenure in office and regret that we will have time to reflect on . I accept that . however , have be a Minister and a parliamentary private Secretary for 12 year , I want to tell the hon . Gentleman that though make the decision to remove the winter fuel payment for that population may be desirable — I acknowledge and have say that it may be desirable for people in the high level — it need to have a mechanism or a proxy to verify what would be fair and which vulnerable people would be affect . I put it to he that if somebody only have an income of £ 13 , 500 , they be in a state of vulnerability that mean that no government should take that away . the choice we make be base on the option available . if there have be an easy way of do that at a high level , I would have be sympathetic to that . those be the real choice that one actually have to face in government . I be grateful to the right hon . member , include for the way in which he put his point . he will hopefully share my relief , then , about the household support fund , which I often find my constituent do not know about . the fund be not report heavily in the medium , so it would be wise for we all to take the opportunity in this debate to reiterate that that support be available to people who be just above the threshold and who might just miss out on access the winter fuel allowance , so that they know that . I signpost many concerned constituent to Citizens Advice Wirral and support they in access the money available through the household support fund , hundred of million of pound of which have come from this Government . conservative Members rightly talk about the need to relieve pressure and protect the most vulnerable . however , I question where their outrage be when their government , back in 2021 , break their manifesto commitment and suspend the triple lock ; I wonder where their outrage be when their leader recently suggest that we should look at means - test access to the state pension ; and where be their outrage when only month ago the shadow Chancellor suggest scrap the triple lock all together ? it be Labour politician who be committed to protect pensioner ' income and deliver support to those in need . I have mention the household support fund , and we be end the Tories ' disastrous plan to drag a record number of pensioner into pay income tax by uprating personal tax threshold from April 2028 . unlike the Tories , we have an iron - clothe commitment to the triple lock , which will see the state pension of million increase by more than £ 470 this year . I would like to hear they welcome that . we be support those care for their love one by increase the income threshold for carer ' s allowance so that more than 60 , 000 carer will benefit by the end of this Parliament . time be tough and this Labour Government have make tough decision to get our country back on track . as I mention , NHS waiting time have now fall for five consecutive month . we have not have that for a long time . we have make a deal with GPs so that healthcare in the community work for everyone , we have target income support to those in the most difficulty and we have launch the big ever drive to ensure that those who can claim pension credit do so , with almost 50 , 000 more pensioner now get the money they be entitle to . the Tory status quo mean only decline for this country . with the Government ' s plan for change , we will get the country back on its foot . I be introduce an immediate three - minute time limit . I call Bradley Thomas . constituent across Bromsgrove and the village , particularly old constituent who have previously be beneficiary of winter fuel payment , rightly feel short - change by this Government . I know that from constituent who have contact I and those I have speak to directly on the doorstep . the faith that they place in the Government have not be reward by the Government support they at a time of vulnerability . in the limited time that I have , I would like to point out the effect that this policy have on rural community in particular . it be important to remember that , while about 83 % of home across the country at large be connect to the gas grid , many pensioner who live in rural area be not connect to main energy and have disproportionately high energy cost . they often live in much more exposed old home that be less well insulate . this mean that their energy demand be much great than those who live in well insulate or more urban residence . I also want to touch on political choice . I know that this have be stress many time already today , but governing be about choice . we hear a lot about £ 22 billion black hole , but we do not hear too much from the Government and Labour Members about the cumulative cost of other choice that they have make . these include the £ 18 billion for Chagos and the public sector pay award without any increase in productivity . we could say that pensioner be pay the price for the pressure that union have place on the Labour party . it be crucial to remember that , during the election campaign , Labour pledge to bring down bill by £ 300 a year . ever since the Government have be pursue their GB Energy policy , which be a quango fund to the tune of £ 8 billion that will not own any energy - generate asset , they seem to have abandon any claim over when that £ 300 deduction in bill will be deliver , but we have see the price cap rise . I find it quite spectacular how , in 2025 , Ministers be suddenly talk about how market force be affect energy price , when back in 2022 Labour Members say it be the decision of the Conservatives that cause energy price and therefore inflation to spike . it be important for the Government to reflect on the reality of what drive energy price and to restore the winter fuel payment to pensioner , not just in Bromsgrove and the village but across the country . it be an honour to take part in this debate , and this be an extremely pertinent time for it . we all hope we be through the bad of the winter — although in my part of the world nobody put their snow boot away until we have get through lamb season , because lamb storm usually bring snow — but we need to know , as we get through the winter and into the well weather , what the impact of this policy decision have be on our pensioner , on our health service , on A & e admission and on other allowance and benefit . we need to know the overall cost of the decision . the hon . member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) , who be no long in his place , suggest that he have more pensioner in his constituency than anyone else . have check with the House of Commons Library as I sit here , I assure he that Staffordshire Moorlands have more , because we have 22 , 197 compare with his 20 , 909 . of those 22 , 197 , over 20 , 000 of they have be affect by this decision , and Staffordshire Moorlands , as the name suggest , be not exactly warm . last winter , we see a low of minus 14 ° c ; this year , we see only minus 5 ° c — it have be a relatively mild winter . it be incredibly important that we find out exactly what impact the decision have have . at the pensioner ' fair I hold in Cheadle back in November , pensioner be terrify . I be hold another fair next week on 28 March in Leek , and I want to hear from my local pensioner what impact the decision have have on they , how it have make they feel and how often they do not switch the heating on . I be proud that I be part of a party in government that introduce the triple lock . the suspension of the triple lock have be refer to . those be exceptional circumstance . that be at a point when we have have furlough and earning have go down by 20 % — that be how the statistic work . when people come off furlough and the earning go up by a much high number , that be the statistical anomaly that mean give pensioner the increase in line with earning would not have reflect reality . earning have not go up by that amount ; it be that furlough have end . can I be clear in my mind that what the right hon . Lady be say be that at a tough time , the then Government take some tough decision , and that result in the pension level be £ 560 low now than if they have not make that decision — a difference far great than the winter fuel payment amount ? that Government make tough decision at a tough time that be cost pensioner money today . what be happen then be once in a generation , and it be not a real increase in earning ; it be merely that people have go from 80 % of their earning back to 100 % . when earning have go down by 20 % , we do not cut the state pension but continue to increase it in line with the triple lock . I want to make a point about universal benefit as oppose to means - test one . the Labour party seem to think that a universal benefit be bad because somebody who do not really need it might receive it . I take the other view : it be important that we get to as many people as possible who need it , and if that mean a few people at the top end of the earning level get a benefit they might not need — give that the right hon . member ' s belief be so strong , will she enlighten I on whether she vote to strip child benefit from certain family , as be conservative policy ? that be a universal benefit . the hon . Member make a good point , and that be a difficult decision because it be the way we could ensure that those at the high end of the earning spectrum be tax on their child benefit . that be a different way of deal with a benefit that some people may not be in need of but be in receipt of . it would have be perfectly possible for the Government to tax winter fuel payment . that would have mean that those on £ 13 , 500 be still get the money they need and the Richard Bransons of the world would be pay tax on it . that be a choice available to the Government ; they choose not to do that . they choose to just take the benefit away . the fact that child benefit go automatically to mother be an incredibly important point , and winter fuel allowance go automatically to pensioner be valuable to they . I ask the Government and the Minister , who I know well and who be an honourable and decent gentleman , whether they might consider put in some form of transitional arrangement , rather than have the cliff edge that hurt many pensioner . I also ask whether they will give we the information about whether there be fraud and error in the system now . will the DWP account be affect by the fact that the winter fuel allowance have be take away in this way and more people may be guilty of fraud and error ? will the Minister give we information on the impact that the measure have have on pensioner health ? that matter vitally to we all . I start by acknowledge the clear impact that I have have on the hon . member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) . I be not sure why or how I have have that impact , but it be clear that she be drastically upset at I , despite the fact that I have be sit quietly throughout the debate until that point . I will talk about why the Labour Government take this decision — why the Chancellor ' s first decision be to target pensioner . it be because the Government talk in their manifesto about the fiscal rule that they would put in place , and say that they would not raise taxis on work people , among a number of other policy . however , they then find themselves in a bit of a bind : " what can we do to reduce the cost in - year ? what be an easy target ? " the Treasury team obviously say , " well , how about cut the winter fuel payment ? you can do that in - year . you can make the change in this Budget , in the current financial year . " that have leave the Scottish Government in a rubbish situation . because those decision be take in - year , it reduce our block grant after we have set our budget in Scotland . we could not magically come up with the £ 147 million that the UK Government have take from we with no warning , despite say that they be go to reset the relationship with the Scottish Parliament . they take that money away in - year . this be suppose to be a Labour Government . my former Procedure Committee colleague , the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , talk about the universality of benefit . I wholeheartedly agree that that be what we should have . I believe that we should have universal social security system and universal basic income , and that everybody who deserve the social security net should be provide with it . then we should tax non - dom , tax share buy - back , rejoin the single market and have a more progressive tax system — like the one in Scotland — in order to pay for those thing . universal benefit mean that , yes , absolutely , one or two millionaire who buy champagne with their winter fuel payment will get it , but they also mean that every single person who need it will get it . the choice be make will exclude some of those millionaire , but they will also exclude the people who be freeze in the minus 1 ° c weather in my constituency overnight . that be a shoddy decision by the Labour Government . I do not understand what the point of Labour be just now . I know that , for the Government Front Benchers , I may well be repeat myself , but I think I need to : £ 300 may not seem like a lot of money , but believe you I , for the thousand of pensioner in my constituency and up and down the country who have miss out on their winter fuel payment , it be a lot . as we have hear this afternoon , and as Labour member know , it be the difference between heating and eat . what do the Minister say to someone who be terminally ill or have a life - threaten illness , be just over the pension credit limit , and miss out because of the Labour Government ' s callous policy ? do the Minister accept the finding that the chance of an over - 65 - year - old being admit to hospital or A & E this winter increase by 9 % compare with 2023 - 24 — an increase of 76 , 190 patient ? have he explain to pensioner that a report commission by Labour in 2017 claim that 3 , 850 pensioner ' life would be at risk if the winter fuel payment be scrap , and that scrap the winter fuel payment would cost the NHS an extra £ 169 million a year ? it be no wonder that the Government do not want to publish an impact assessment . the right hon . Lady be make an eloquent point about how important every pound be for a pensioner , and £ 300 be a lot of money for a pensioner . but be £ 560 more or less than £ 300 , because that be what decision take by the previous Government in 2021 have cost pensioner this year ? I completely disagree with the hon . Gentleman , and my right hon . and hon . friend have make clear the position on that . let I return to the point we be debate , which be the winter fuel payment . I would like to think , or even hope , that the Government would have a rethink , although it appear that might not be the case . what be bad be that they seem uninterested in assess the impact of this decision . they will not do it now , they do not do it before they make the decision , and it seem they will not even consider delay the measure . pensioner have face a cliff edge and they could not plan for this , which make it even hard . to add insult to injury , more than 30 , 000 pension credit application be wait to be process . I have be submit write question to the Department to try to flush out how many extra staff it have recruit . my figure be different from those give early by those on the Front Bench . my number be 1 , 045 full - time equivalent member of staff , and there be still a backlog . winter be not over and pensioner be still wait , so why do this Labour Government insist on penalise those who have work hard all their life ? pensioner have work hard , try to do the right thing by their family , pay their bill , and perhaps save a little bit of money , only to be kick at a time in life when they really need that little bit of help , and when it would make a massive difference in so many way . Labour Members choose to scrap the winter fuel payment for 10 million pensioner , and the really disappointing thing be that I have sit on these Benches and I have hear not one bit of humility . all I have hear be arrogance — will the right hon . Lady give way ? no , not now . I will continue to fight for the pensioner — for the friend , family , and resident of Aldridge - Brownhills who I know be suffer as a result of this . the flavour and mood of this debate have be somewhat strange . I expect to be in a debate face member on the Government Benches who be at least show humility , and who at least , in the word they choose , show that they regret the decision , even though they reluctantly support it . but that be not the mood we have face at all . Government Members have be bullish . we have hear the word " proud " . they have be jovial and , at time , even upbeat in describe this very bad decision of this Government of bad decision , and pensioner will have hear they . Labour Members may have impress each other , and they may have impress the trade union of which they be member , by talk about and defend train driver ' pay , but they will have deeply depressed , and depress far , those pensioner who live in their constituency , in my constituency and right across Britain . my hon . friend the shadow Secretary of State take we through the issue cause by withdraw the winter fuel payment , and she make the central argument that have be repeat from these Benches : they be withdraw the winter fuel payment not from the wealthy , but from those on as little as £ 13 , 500 . my constituent Jean tell I that she be now wash in cold water as a result of this measure . she be one of those people right on the cusp . she might also be concern by comment from the Leader of the Opposition about the potential means - testing of the triple lock after the next election , if the Conservatives be in government . will the hon . Gentleman offer Jean reassurance that there will not be an even long winter if the Government be to change next time ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give I the opportunity to talk about means - testing — I do not expect to have that Government argument make by a Liberal Democrat Member , but so be it . there be some sympathy , from across the House , for the argument for mean - test the winter fuel payment , but I assure the hon . Gentleman that nobody on the Conservative Benches think that the means - test cut - off point , if they believe in one , should be £ 13 , 500 . that mean that 10 million pensioner have lose out on the winter fuel payment . unless the Government can make a fiscal argument for remove winter fuel payment from the very wealthy that actually deliver more fund to the Treasury , this decision should not have be take at all , and should certainly not have be take when it harm those on a fix income of very little . the motion talk about ensure that " those eligible for Pension Credit receive it " . to return to the point I make early , if Conservative Members be so concerned about vulnerable pensioner , why be there absolutely no movement in the take - up of pension credit under the previous Government ? some 700 , 000 pensioner be eligible for pension credit , but I do not remember a big campaign on that by the previous Government that make a difference — order . the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention be far too long . I thank the hon . gentleman for draw attention to his own Government ' s promise to increase the take - up of pension credit . after the past winter , there be still 750 , 000 pensioner who have not take it up , so he should not speak with any pride or seek to deflect to previous government when his own Government have withdraw the winter fuel payment and there be still 750 , 000 eligible pensioner who be not receive pension credit . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be sorry , but in the time remain I can not take another intervention from the hon . Gentleman . without the winter fuel payment , over the winter we have see a 5 % increase in the number of people age over 65 attend a & E , and of those who have attend A & E , there have be a 9 % increase in hospital admission . the motion seek a proper impact assessment and analysis by the Government of the effect of winter fuel payment be withdraw . this be not a one - off winter , and it be a warm winter than average . the same will happen next winter , the follow winter and the winter after that , unless the Government bring back the fuel payment . the hon . Member state that he believe in means - test the winter fuel allowance , so at what level do he believe that eligibility should be set ? there be member across the House who would support the principle of means - testing , and I have invite the Government to come forward with the datum that show we where the bar would be set to bring money into the Treasury . however , I would reject any means - testing that take money away from those pay £ 13 , 500 . I do not know whether it be incompetence , pig - headedness or callousness , or indeed all of the above , that have lead this Labour Government to take the winter fuel payment away from some of the poor in society . so often today from the Government Benches we have hear about tough choice , but tough choice do not automatically mean the right choice ; in fact , in this case it be entirely the wrong choice . I expect to see the panoply of the usual greaser and crawler from the Labour Benches here today , but they be not here . in fact , as my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) mention , we have see Labour Members who seem to have don the hair shirt and decide that this should be their cause c é l è bre to demonstrate , either to themselves or to their party , that be tough somehow mean that they be be a strong government , which be absolute nonsense . all that the scrapping of the winter fuel payment will lead to be excess death . we have warm word from the hon . member for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) , but warm word will not heat the pensioner who be freeze in their home this winter . in my constituency of Farnham and Bordon , more than 18 , 200 pensioner will have lose the winter fuel payment , and many of they be just above the income threshold for the pension credit benefit . these people be contribute to our society but earn only £ 13 , 500 a year . they be not the champagne quaffer that the hon . member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) talk about ; they be the people who fight for and serve this country . they have put money into the system and rightly expect a tiny bit back to heat their home . at a pension credit surgery I hold in October , pensioner share their fear and frustration . one word keep come up : betrayal . that be betrayal by this Labour Government of their vote . they be not ask for luxury or for anything like a handout ; all they want be to be able to heat their home in winter . they want to live with dignity , and they want to do so without have to choose whether to heat their home or put food on the table . the idea that this Government would do this without an impact assessment and , subsequently , without do any monitoring of the impact be shocking . in his wind - up speech , will the Minister commit to do a full impact assessment to see the rate of NHS admission and the mortality rate that he talk about , so that we understand whether this policy have kill people ? this be not about money ; it be about value and decency . those who build this country should not have to shiver in their home because of this cruel policy . once again in this House we find ourselves discuss labour ' s failure to protect our pensioner . time and again we have expose its false narrative and ask how it intend to use technology to reduce cost , improve service and drive productivity . this Government capitulate to the archaic working practice of train driver and their trade union paymaster . there have be no serious attempt to modernise , no recognition of the technological advancement of the past five year , and no meaningful reform to improve efficiency . worse still , their Employment Rights Bill drag Britain back to 1970s french - style labour law , roll back the vital protection of the Trade Union Act 2016 . these outdated policy stifle economic growth , make job creation hard and hand excessive power to union — Order . I remind the hon . member that this debate be on winter fuel payment . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I merely wish to set the scene for winter fuel payment . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress . who be pay the price for the Government ' s economic mismanagement ? it be our pensioner . of the 23 , 282 pensioner in my constituency of Bognor Regis and Littlehampton — at least 5 % more pensioner than in the constituency of Makerfield — nearly 90 % will lose their winter fuel payment this year . that be nearly 23 , 282 elderly individual be force into impossible choice because of this Government ' s incompetence and poor choice . one constituent write to I that " this policy be especially unfair to old pensioner who receive significantly low pension than those bear later . we have contribute since the age of 16 , yet now we feel penalise " simply for be old . this be not just bad policy , but a deliberate choice by this Labour Government . instead of protect the vulnerable , this Government have prioritise inflation - bust pay rise for their union backer , wage class warfare on independent school and force a burden of at least £ 5 billion on to business through their disastrous Employment Rights Bill . labour ' s decision to strip away this crucial support will lead to more pensioner in A & E , more vulnerable people suffer in cold home and more life be put at risk . it be a betrayal . we will not stand by and let this injustice go unanswered . it be painfully clear that if this government believe you do not vote for they , they will continue to turn their back on you . that be clear from their treatment of independent school , small business owner , farmer , and now — and most cruelly — pensioner . within just week of take office , this shameful Government scrap the winter fuel payment for 10 million pensioner . those individual , many of whom be frail and some of the most vulnerable people in society , have give so much to our country . they build our foundation , our community and the national fabric , yet in return , they receive a cold shoulder from the Chancellor of the Exchequer . she could not wait to get her hand on their £ 300 . will the hon . member give way ? no , I be not give way . that small sum of money allow pensioner to keep the heating on , help they to make it through those cold winter night , and support they in not have to choose between heating and eat . wherever I go in my constituency of Mid Leicestershire , I have conversation with old people , and the word they use be " betrayal " . it be a betrayal feel deeply in their heart , particularly by those who help build this country . let we not forget that 348 Labour mp be complicit in take the winter fuel payment away from million of pensioner , and 71 % of disabled pensioner have lose that vital support . Labour Members have repeatedly tell we that theirs be the party of the NHS , but let we face the fact : they be all complicit in cost the national health service an additional £ 169 million , which be the cost of look after the 100 , 000 pensioner who have be leave out in the cold . we have hear the argument from Labour Members that take away the winter fuel payment somehow benefit the NHS , because money be go into it . do my hon . friend agree that the chief executive of NHS England have say that actually , every single penny that the Government be put into the NHS this year be be wipe out through national insurance rise , inflation and drug price increase ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the number simply do not stack up . in comparison , it be a Conservative Government who introduce the triple lock and increase the state pension by almost £ 4 , 000 . it be a Conservative Government who reduce the number of pensioner live in absolute poverty by more than 200 , 000 , and it be the Conservatives who have pensioner ' interest at heart . when I be out on the doorstep during the general election campaign — as I be sure every Member of this House be — I speak to my electorate in Broxbourne . they say , " look , Lewis , we know what ' s come . we know we ' re go to get a Labour Government . we know they ' re go to get into power and then they ' re go to tell we how awful it be , and they be go to come for we . they be go to come after pensioner . " the electorate in Broxbourne already know , so the british public be not fool . this argument about a £ 22 billion black hole and difficult choice that we be tell the Government have to make will not wash with the british people outside of this Chamber , because they do not believe it in the first place . will the hon . member give way ? no , I will not give way . the Government get elect on a manifesto . within eight month , they have introduce significant policy that be not in that manifesto , include the family farm tax , the national insurance increase , and of course withdrawal of the winter fuel allowance . that be what my constituent in Broxbourne be really cross about — it be not in the Labour party manifesto . People go out and vote in good faith in the July election , and lot of the people I speak to in my constituency who vote for the Labour party now heavily regret it because of the choice that Labour and this Government be make . they be not honest about those choice with the british people . what be in the labour manifesto , though , be a commitment to cut energy bill by £ 300 . the Government have get in — secure a mandate from the british people — and have then say , " you know what ? the manifesto we be elect on doesn ' t mean anything . we can throw it in the bin and concentrate on thing that we really want to do , rather than concentrate on put british people first and lower energy bill by £ 300 . " I hope that when the Minister sum up , he will tell we about the progress that the Government be make towards bring energy bill down . I suspect that it be very little , because they be too busy concentrate on thing that they have not be elect to do . far to the point that my hon . friend have just make , do he agree that the Government make promise to the british public that they not only will not deliver , but can not deliver , such as lower energy bill ? it be not within the gift of government to directly control energy bill — that be why the winter fuel payment be so crucial to so many pensioner across the country . my hon . friend make an important point . what the Government could do to lower energy bill be to secure North sea oil and gas investment in this country , so that we produce here more of the gas that we need to power all the industry in this country , instead of import it . do the hon . Member agree that if we be to rejoin a single market in electricity , we would lower our electricity bill by join the single day - ahead coupling system with Europe ? the hon . Member make a point that he be passionate about , but I do not agree with he . we need to produce more of our energy here at home , rather than rely on import . that be why the Government should change their policy and issue new oil and gas licence . I urge hon . member on the Government Benches — lot of they be honourable — to please support pensioner today and vote to keep the winter fuel allowance . that bring we to the wind - up . I call the shadow Secretary of State . this afternoon , we have hear some fantastic speech in which member have set out heartbreake real - life story from their constituent about the situation old people have find themselves in this winter . pensioner have be force to choose between eating and heating as a result of the Government ' s choice to remove the winter fuel allowance from around 10 million of they . that be compound by shocking delay in process pension credit claim . along with those who have just miss the threshold to receive support , it have mean that many , many people who be desperately in need have miss out on hundred of pound that would have make a real difference to they this winter . as have previously be say : " although the poor do receive some help through cold weather payment , they go only to those on income support , who generally have to wait until after the cold weather for help to be available . the payment be no help at all to most pensioner , include … those on the margin of poverty " . the individual continue that they be " simply not prepared to allow another winter to go by when pensioner be fearful of turn up their heating , even on the cold winter day , because they do not know whether they will have the help they need for their fuel bill . " — [ Official Report , 25 November 1997 ; Vol . 301 , c . 779 - 80 . ] those be the word of the former Labour Chancellor and Prime Minister , Gordon Brown , who bring in the winter fuel payment . it be a great shame that his successor in a Labour Government today have take a very different view on support for pensioner . the choice make by the Labour Government — almost their first choice in office last July — be as cruel as it be unnecessary , and it have real - life consequence for vulnerable people . like many other member , I suspect on both side of the House , I have meet my local branch of Age UK and other local charity . they all tell I about how hard their service — service vitally important to pensioner , such as GPs , hospice and pharmacy — will be hit by the Government ' s job tax , the NICs hike . alongside that impact on service pensioner rely on , this Government have slash the winter fuel payment for so many . understandably , pensioner be ask what the Labour party have against they — or , for that matter , against farmer or business . will the shadow Minister give way ? let I just complete the point . I know that the hon . Gentleman have only come into the debate relatively late , but I will take an intervention from he afterwards . the message be , under this government , do not run a hospice , a pharmacy or a care home . do not be a farmer . do not run a business and , heaven forbid , do not get old . we on the Government Benches be disappoint to have have to make this decision , but it be a symptom of the circumstance in which we find ourselves . I just remind the shadow Minister of something . I understand that he stand in the 2017 general election . some of the policy in the conservative manifesto at that time be to means - test the winter fuel allowance and to reduce the triple lock to a double lock . I will make a number of point to the hon . Gentleman . I be go to come on to his first point , but I will happily do so now . he seem to be allude to the mythical so - call black hole that be so often bandy around . the OBR pointedly decline to validate that or back it up in its assessment , and it can not be deem a rationale for do this . will the shadow Minister give way ? I want to make a little progress . we have see a real black hole emerge follow the Chancellor of the Exchequer ' s disastrous Budget . it be also not the case that the Government can claim they have save the pension triple lock , which be introduce by a Conservative and Liberal Democrat Government back in 2010 . the previous Government have already commit themselves to it , in that election ' s manifesto and other . pensioner could rightly bank on the uplift from the triple lock come through . what they have see now , however , be a real cut in what they be receive , and what they have a right to expect , with the slashing of the winter fuel payment . the right hon . Gentleman have mention the OBR . I wonder whether he have read the report in which it state : " the Treasury do not share information with the OBR about the large pressure on RDEL " — resource departmental expenditure limit — " about the unusual extent of commitment against the reserve , or about any plan to manage these pressure down " . I wonder whether he will take this opportunity to apologise for that extraordinary fiscal failure . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that , as I mention early , I have read the report , and he will know , have also read it — he be gently wave it at I from the other side of the Chamber — that the OBR pointedly decline to back up the claim about the so - call £ 22 billion black hole . as we have hear , the former Prime Minister Gordon Brown , as Chancellor of the Exchequer , initiate the winter fuel allowance , announce it in 1997 and introduce it in 1998 ; but it be worth remember that , even in the challenging circumstance of the time , George Osborne do not cut the allowance , despite the appalling financial and economic inheritance in 2010 . why not ? because it be a cost - effective benefit , and because it genuinely make a difference . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? let I just make a further point . I be about to deal with some of the hon . Gentleman ' s own point , as he will find if he pause for a minute , but he may want to intervene at that moment . George Osborne do not cut the winter fuel allowance because it give pensioner the confidence to turn the heating up those extra few degree , know that the money be come . I will now give way to the hon . Gentleman . I salute the right hon . Gentleman ' s quest for clarity . will he provide other with that clarity ? would his party reverse this policy ? I be about to be quite nice to the hon . Gentleman , because I have to say that , during a debate that have , perhaps , produce a lot of heat and not always a huge amount of light , he address the issue before we in a measured way . I do not agree with everything he say , but he be reasonable and make some valid point . let I gently say to he , however , that our record speak for itself . we do not get rid of the winter fuel allowance . the fact be that Labour Members be in government , and have a large majority , and , as they be discover , to govern be to choose . they must be accountable for the choice — the choice — that they have make . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will make a little bit of progress , and then I will give way to my right hon . friend . UK pensioner be not fool , so I be sorry that Labour member want almost to insult their intelligence by repeat the debunk claim about the so - call black hole , or the debunk claim that the triple lock be in some way under threat and have be save by the current Government . let I also gently remind they that pensioner be unlikely to forget . they feel let down by Labour ; they feel that the trust that they place in Labour Members when they vote for they have be betray , and within a month of Labour ' s take office . so I ask again , why do this Government make the political choice to introduce these cruel , unnecessary cut ? I now give way to my right hon . friend . the moment may have pass somewhat , but I think my point be still apposite enough to make . if there be any apology to go round , they should come from the Labour party . in every single election campaign in which I have be involve for at least the past 25 year , the Labour party have run a scare story about the conservative scrap the winter fuel payment , and the moment they get into office , what be the very first thing they do ? they remove the winter fuel payment . that be what have upset so many of my constituent so much . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the former Deputy Prime Minister , who have put the case far more eloquently and succinctly than I could have do . he be , of course , entirely right . an estimated three quarter of a million people be entitle to pension credit , but do not claim it , even after Labour ' s pension credit take - up campaign , so they do not receive the winter fuel payment to which they be entitle . will the Minister — or the Pensions Minister who open this debate , whom I see back in his place — commit in the name of transparency to publish an official estimate of the number of eligible pensioner the Government estimate do not receive the winter fuel payment this winter ? I be conscious of the time , so I will allow the Minister to respond in his wind - up . the Government ' s own modelling show that 100 , 000 pensioner will be push into poverty as a result of their choice . now that the first winter have pass , will the Minister commit to publishing datum show the real impact of change to the winter fuel payment on level of pensioner poverty ? the number of over - 65 attend a & E increase by nearly 100 , 000 this winter , despite its be a warm winter than average . we know that multiple factor have an impact on that number , but this be a very large jump . again , will Ministers publish official datum on the number of hospital admission they believe to be cause by the winter fuel payment cut and what the cost to the NHS have be ? to conclude , because I be conscious of the time and wish to enable the Minister to respond , this money be genuinely need by vulnerable people — vulnerable pensioner — this winter . in my Melton and Syston constituency , I get heartrende message about choice between eating and heating , and we should not forget , as my hon . friend the Member for Bromsgrove ( Bradley Thomas ) mention , the impact on rural community reliant on heating oil and have to pay for that in one bulk payment . Labour Members have an opportunity this evening to send a message to pensioner . will that message once again be one of ignore their concern , with the Government show they be deaf to they and do not care , or will they take the opportunity to do the right thing this evening , and back our motion to send the message to their old constituent that they do care and be stand up for they against this cruel and unnecessary cut ? this choice , and it be a choice , will tell pensioner in their constituency exactly where they stand . the Conservatives and other member on this side of the House be stand up for our pensioner on winter fuel payment . the Conservatives be back the generation that give so much to our country . will member on the Government Benches have the courage to do the same ? I be pleased to respond to this important debate . this topic affect million of pensioner up and down our country . it be one we have debate many time in recent month , and it be right that we do so . many right hon . and hon . member have make important contribution that I want to acknowledge . my hon . friend the Members for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Jones ) , for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) and for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) , among other , talk about the inheritance that we as a government face when we come into office and the difficult decision that have arise as a result , and they be right to do so . I particularly commend my hon . friend the Member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) , who talk about the work he be do in his community to drive pension credit take - up . I know that member across the House be do the same , and I thank they for do so . as my hon . friend the Pensions Minister set out early , the decision we have make have not be easy , but we have make sure that we have protect those pensioner who need support the most . winter fuel payment will continue to be pay to pensioner household in England and Wales with someone receive pension credit or certain other income - relate benefit . they will continue to be worth £ 200 for eligible household or £ 300 for eligible household with someone age 80 or over . the majority of those payment — over 1 million — be pay before Christmas . mean - test the winter fuel payment be a choice we have to make to protect the most vulnerable pensioner , while do what be necessary to repair the public finance after 14 year of the wreck ball that be the conservative party . it be the difficult decision we have take that mean this Government be able to provide much - need additional investment in the NHS , which benefit we all , include pensioner who rely on these service . the Government be work hard to reform the NHS in England through the 10 - year health plan to build a health service that be fit for the future . do the hon . Gentleman not accept that , while he may well be put money into the NHS , which be great , his policy towards pensioner , base on the statistic we have see , mean that more pensioner be go into the NHS and put more pressure on the service ? it just do not make sense . I dispute the right hon . Lady ' s statistic . she be right to highlight that there have be an increase in hospital admission among over - 65 , but that be entirely in line with the statistic for people enter hospital in other age cohort . that be actually a result of the collapse of the NHS on the Conservatives ' watch , which mean that A & E be the only option for so many people . as I be say , as a first step at the autumn Budget , the Government announce a £ 22 . 6 billion increase in day - to - day health spending in England and a £ 3 . 1 billion increase in the capital budget over this year and the next . but we know that even with our long - term effort to rebuild critical public service , pensioner poverty be a very real concern . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress first . there will always be those who , for whatever reason , have be unable to make sufficient provision for their retirement . the benefit system provide a vital safety net for those on low income who need support the most . this , of course , include help through pension credit , worth on average £ 4 , 300 a year and which top up income , as well as unlock access to additional support and benefit . we know there be still low - income pensioner who be not claim pension credit but be eligible to do so and we want everyone to get the support to which they be entitle . that be why , since September , we have be run the big ever pension take - up campaign . around 1 . 4 million pensioner household receive pension credit , but too many have be miss out . thank to our campaign , we have see 235 , 000 pension credit application in the 30 week since the end of July last year , an 81 % increase on the comparable period in 2023 - 24 . that have lead to almost 50 , 000 extra award over the same period . I wonder if the Minister can ask his friend , the hon . member for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) , to get in touch with I about how he manage to find out where the 5 , 000 pensioner be that he be able to write to . I have try to get that information so I can write to pensioner and tell they about pension credit , but it have not be available anywhere . if he could ask his friend to write to I , I would really appreciate it . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . I be sure she be capable of contact my hon . friend the Member for Makerfield herself , but I recall that he do mention that he be work closely with his local authority . I be sure it have be able to assist in that campaign , which he describe as a partnership rather than his own work , to drive take - up in his area . as detailed early by the Pensions Minister , we be directly target all pensioner who make a new claim for housing benefit , bring together the administration of pension credit and housing benefit , and we be introduce new research on the trigger and motivation that encourage people to apply for pension credit , to guide future policymaking . I echo the Pensions Minister ' s remark on the triple lock . it be worth repeat that over 12 million pensioner will benefit from our commitment here . over this Parliament , up to and include 2029 - 30 , the OBR forecast that Government spending on the state pension will rise by over £ 31 billion . and there be lot of other support too , include the warm home discount and the household support fund , available to pensioner . I will turn now to some of the other specific point raise during today ' s debate . several Members raise the delay in pension credit processing . it be important for I to recognise here the sheer volume of application the Department receive during this period . we understand that pensioner expect their application to be process quickly and accurately , which be why we deploy over 500 extra staff to process the huge increase . the late statistic also show a positive picture : outstanding claim have reduce from 85 , 500 in mid - December to just 33 , 700 by 23 February , which be in line with the Department ' s usual number of claim await processing . some hon . member raise the issue of an impact assessment at the time of the policy decision . in line with the requirement of the public sector equality duty , an equality analysis be produce as part of the ministerial decision - make process . that be publish on 13 September and place in the House of Commons Library . it assess the effect on individual and household accord to protect characteristic set out under the Equality Act 2010 . they do not include impact on the NHS . other hon . member have quote figure on the poverty impact of the change to winter fuel payment . I simply note that yes , internal Government modelling be produce as part of routine policy advice . give the interest from the Work and Pensions Committee and the public interest , the Department publish this modelling for transparency in a letter to the Select Committee in November . however , it be essential to note that this modelling be subject to a range of uncertainty , which should be take into account when interpret the result , and that it do not take into account any impact of the measure we be take to increase pension credit take - up and ensure pensioner get the benefit to which they be entitle . my understanding be that the impact assessment show that about 100 , 000 pensioner would be put into poverty . I be just wonder what range either side of that figure would be acceptable to the Minister . what I would say to the hon . Lady be that I would never want to see those number increase , but that number be significantly well than the 300 , 000 pensioner who go into relative poverty under her government . to those ask about Government action with respect to energy cost , I say that the Government recognise that afford energy bill be a struggle for many and that energy debt be rise . the Government have continuous engagement with energy supplier and have discuss the support they have in place to support vulnerable consumer , include pensioner household . we be continue to deliver the warm home discount for eligible low - income household and have recently publish a consultation on its expansion , which would bring around 2 . 7 million more household into the scheme , push the total number of household receive the discount next winter up to around 6 million . I will turn briefly to some of the contribution from member on the conservative Benches , and in particular from the shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , who , interestingly — give the description use by the hon . member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) of this side of the House — I feel express faux outrage at this decision . it be rich from a party that , as I say , push 300 , 000 pensioner into relative poverty , make pitiful effort to address pension credit take - up , make a 2017 manifesto commitment to means - test the winter fuel payment and let the value of the winter fuel payment fall by around 50 % during its time in government . the shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions go on to make repeat reference to Labour Members ’ conscience , which be relatively offensive , but nothing compare with be call the " nasty party " by the hon . member for South Leicestershire . I will not accept those sort of attack from the Conservatives — the party of Downing Street party , the party of the inhumane Rwanda scheme , and the party that drive so many to food bank . my conscience be clear , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it be appal to imagine that theirs be the same after what they do to this country over 14 year . I listen very carefully to — [ interruption . ] I be be chuntere at from a sedentary position about the household support fund . I remind the shadow Secretary of State that it be not fully fund by the Conservatives on a multi - year basis , and it be this Government who have provide that certainty to local authority . I listen very carefully to the speech from the shadow Health Secretary and , indeed , the more than dozen speech from Opposition Members , and I be still no clear on what their policy actually be . we have one Member stand up and say mean - test , another stand up and say tax the winter fuel payment , but neither shadow Secretary of State present bother to stand up and tell we what the Conservatives ' policy be . if they want to stand up now and say that they would reverse this policy decision , I would be happy to give way to either of they . feel free . their silence say it all , Madam Deputy Speaker . we have make the hard choice necessary to bring the public finance back under control after 14 year of Tory misrule . at what point would the uptake of pension credit eliminate the saving from cancel the winter fuel payment ? at what number would the uptake overtake that payment ? we have never suggest that they would , and the Minister for Pensions address that in his opening statement . the saving put forward do take account of that . I have to say that , in accept that intervention , I be hopeful that , finally , one Tory would come forward with an actual policy in this area — I would say that I be disappointed , but it be only to be expect . pensioner household who need support the most will continue to get winter fuel payment . we be get more and more people on to pension credit , so that they can get winter fuel payment and increase their weekly income . this motion call for an apology . the only people who should be give an apology to pensioner and to this country be those in the conservative party , for the mess that they leave behind . question put . Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Rosie Duffield Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Adnan Hussain Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Seamus Logan Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Calum Miller Gagan Mohindra Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Laura Trott Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young James Wild Nick Timothy Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jessica Asato Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant David Burton - Sampson Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Matthew Pennycook David Pinto - Duschinsky Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Keir Mather the House divide : Ayes 177 , Noes 293 . question accordingly negative . Council Tax Reform Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) Council Tax be , without doubt , the most unfair , regressive and punitive taxation system in this country . it be hammer town such as Hartlepool . place with high deprivation and low wage — the very area that a fair tax system would support — be instead be squeeze to breaking point by a broken system that must be fix . a government that stand up for work people , promise change and have a mandate for that change can not sit back while such fundamental unfairness continue . the number speak for themselves . for a band a property in Westminster , it be £ 648 a year . in Hartlepool , it be £ 1 , 585 . a Band H property in Hartlepool pay nearly £ 3 , 000 a year more than one in Westminster . the hon . Member make a good point in compare his constituency with the situation here in London . to continue that point , on top of council tax , there be the settlement funding for council , of which London borough have receive roughly twice as much as shire county . do the hon . Member agree that that be also a problem with the current council tax regime ? certainly , the last 14 year — I note that none of the Conservatives be here — shift the settlement away from area of deprivation to more affluent area . that have have an incredibly punitive effect . council tax in Hartlepool represent 9 % of median gross pay . here in Westminster , it be just 2 % . someone can live in a multimillion - pound property in London and still pay less council tax than someone in a terrace house in Hartlepool . it be not right . it be not fair . it must change . an outdated system base on 34 - year - old property value can never deliver fairness and have widen regional inequality . sixty - six per cent of Somerset council ' s budget go to fund social care . that budget be fund through the taxis raise on property base on price from 1991 , as the hon . Member have set out . do he agree that that be archaic and unfair , and that we should enact real reform to the way we fund local authority ? I absolutely agree and I will come to social care later in my speech , so I will pick up that point then . may I commend the hon . member for bring forward the debate ? he be get himself a reputation in this House for be an assiduous constituency worker . I wish he well in continue to do the good work that we all witness . do the hon . Member not agree that with the cost of living crisis , work family — that be what we be talk about here — need to know that every penny of tax be wisely spend ? confidence be clearly at an all - time low . do he far agree that great openness and transparency as to the use of tax fund can only be a good thing throughout this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I absolutely agree . I should first say that it would not be an Adjournment debate without an intervention from the hon . member . he be absolutely right : we need transparency in the system . one of the big problem with council tax be that it have break the bond of trust between those who pay it and the service that they receive . I will come back to that point later in my speech . my hon . friend and neighbour make some excellent point about the unfairness of the council tax system . my view be that it can not be tinker with and it be fundamentally flawed . for my constituent and my hon . friend ' s , it be nothing less than a regressive property tax . in Blackhall in my constituency , someone live in a modest band a home worth £ 35 , 000 pay almost the same in council tax as a band h property in Belgravia worth many million of pound . that be indefensible . do my hon . friend agree that if we be serious about tackle growth and improve living standard in constituency such as mine and his , we need radical reform ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . the tinkering around the edge that have happen in some part of the United Kingdom will not get the job do . my hon . friend mention property price , and they be at the heart of the unfairness . in Hartlepool , 53 % of the property be in band a . here in Westminster , that figure be 1 . 2 % . in Hartlepool , only 3 . 7 % of the property be in band F to H , yet in Westminster it be almost half of all property . such a skewed housing base make it impossible to raise the money to deliver the service that people need . furthermore , council tax be not a reliable source of income . nationally , one in 10 people in the UK have be in council tax debt , and nearly 40 % of those individual have report be threaten with legal action as a result . outstanding council tax debt already stand at £ 6 billion . this week I speak to Caroline , a development officer in Hartlepool who support many of the most vulnerable in our community . she tell I of one work family for whom council tax , even with the reduction , be now the equivalent of more than a third of their mortgage payment . Dad work and mum be a full - time carer for their disabled son . they live in fear of not be able to pay . they do not understand where their money go and they do not feel any benefit , only financial pain . how can we sustain such a system ? how can we stand by while it punish the very people we be suppose to represent ? at the heart of this broken system be social care , as have be mention already . nearly 70 % of Hartlepool ' s budget be spend protect the most vulnerable child and adult in our town , and that be mirror in area of need across the country . no one in their right mind would design a care system fund by a regressive tax levy on small , struggle community , yet that be exactly what have happen and it have be get bad . in Hartlepool , officer have make a rough estimate that if social care be remove , a typical band d property would see its bill drop from £ 2 , 400 to less than £ 1 , 000 . elsewhere , the scandal in child ' s social care be slowly bankrupt local authority . private provider , often own by faceless hedge fund , be profit on the back of vulnerable child . the cost be staggering . in Hartlepool , the top four private provider charge an average of £ 12 , 000 per child per week . that be £ 624 , 000 a year for just one child . for Hartlepool , that be the equivalent of more than a 1 % rise in council tax for one child ' s care . local councillor face the impossible choice : protect the most vulnerable or impose even more council tax pain on their resident . the most pernicious thing about this regressive tax be the impact it have on trust . " no taxation without representation " be the saying , but as council tax bill go up , service be cut . resident be no long receive the representation their money be suppose to deliver . Most people , thankfully , do not need social care , but they do need bin collection , clean street , well - maintain park , green space , museum , leisure centre and library — all thing that make somewhere a place — yet these be repeatedly cut because of this fail system . this be break the bond between council and the public , and when people feel they be pay more but get less , they stop believe in the system . when voter feel ignore and abandon , they do not stop vote ; they will vote for anyone with easy answer . populist politician with no real answer will step into this gap and exploit this frustration . I warn Ministers : fix council tax or face the electoral consequence . there be alternative . Andrew Dixon and the Fairer Share campaign have advocate for a proportional property tax that would ensure contribution be base on actual property value . some 70 % of household in the north - east would be well off . nearly a third would save as much as £ 1 , 500 a year — money that could help struggle family put food on the table , heat their home and buy their child the thing that they need . yes , some would lose out , but it would , and should , be the wealthy in our society shoulder that burden . if we be not prepared to make the wealthy pay so the poor can pay less , what exactly be we for ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) for secure this incredibly important debate , and I agree with every word he say . do he agree that a reform system would reduce the cost of live for ordinary people and , depend on how the Government want to reform it , actually increase revenue for the Government to spend on well public service ? absolutely . a properly balanced system could provide the service we need and put more money into the pot to ensure those service be deliver . that be partly the problem with this system : it be so broken that it punish people in deprive area , and it still do not deliver those service . I know Ministers have say they be not look to reform the council tax system in this Parliament , but even if an overhaul of the entire system be not possible , there be still way to improve thing , and I hope the Minister will advocate for they . the Casey review of social care should recommend take social care out of local authority . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , by promote regional co - operation , can create economy of scale to take the burden off council taxpayer . under the english devolution proposal , financial devolution must be part of the discussion . if we be to have large authority that be more remote from the taxpayer , the resident must see the benefit in their pocket . this Government promise change and to fix the foundation , but the public ' s most direct contact with government be through local council , whose foundation be crumble . if Ministers ignore council tax reform , they do so at their peril . we can fix a broken system , ease the burden on work family , and restore trust in government at all level . we have a moral duty to right a 34 - year - old wrong , find a sustainable solution to this injustice , cut council tax bill and deliver real change for the people we represent . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) on secure the debate . he be absolutely right that the system be outdated , regressive and in desperate need of change , and our region be disproportionately impact . my constituency be split between two local authority : Middlesbrough to the west , and Redcar and Cleveland to the east . they be two distinct area with their own local challenge , but they face similar issue when it come to council tax . loftus in Redcar and Cleveland will have a band D council tax rate of more than £ 2 , 500 for the next financial year . that mean a multimillion - pound property in East Sussex can attract a low council tax bill than the average family home in our region . that can not be fair . in fact , owner - occupier in our region can expect to pay a percentage of their property value that be 2 . 5 time high than the average London resident . that be another example of an unfair system base on three decade - old valuation , hammer local resident in area of high deprivation . over 50 % of dwelling in Middlesbrough be designate as band A — a much high percentage than other local authority — force Middlesbrough council to have the 19th high council tax rate in the country . one way in which that could be help be if Valuation Office Agency power be devolve far to local authority to allow they to more rigorously assess whether a property be incorrectly band . that measure would just be tinker around the edge of a system that need fundamental reform . as my hon . Friend say , one solution would be to replace the current system with a proportional property tax , remove the antiquated 1991 banding and instead ask resident to pay a percentage of their up - to - date property value every year . that would create a more progressive system , prevent those in low - value home from pay disproportionately high rate , while ensure that wealthy property owner elsewhere in the country contribute a fairer share . as the Institute for Public Policy Research have set out , another method to address the issue would be far increase council tax premium on empty and second home . as my hon . friend have note , reform the child ' s social care market , which have be describe as " broken " by the Competition and Markets Authority , would go some way to repair local government finance and deliver value for taxpayer . the choice be clear : either we keep patch up a system that punish region like our , or we build one that be fair , proportional and fit for the 21st century . teesside can not afford to wait another 30 year . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) on secure this Adjournment debate on the important issue of council tax . I be grateful for the work and research that he and the all - party group have put into their argument for council tax reform . the Government take seriously the issue of how council be fund , and the impact on local taxpayer . council tax be an important part of the funding that council require to deliver a range of over 800 vital service . for 2024 - 25 , council tax make up over half of council ' core spending power . individual council be responsible for set their own level of council tax , take into account their local circumstance . indeed , council tax be the balance item in the local council budget . as my hon . friend will know , the ability to raise revenue from council tax be determine by the number of domestic property within a local authority area , and by the value of those property in 1991 . that mean that place with a high number of more valuable property be often able to raise more than an area with low - value property , despite set the same or commonly a low level of council tax . however , as he say , the Government have rule out a revaluation of council tax in this Parliament . that mean that we must find other way to address the discrepancy in tax - raise ability through other mean . the last Conservative Government commit to improve and update the way in which council be fund , through the fair funding review , but that work be not deliver . we will make good on that commitment and implement long - await funding reform through a multi - year settlement in 2026 - 27 — the first in over a decade . we have recently consult on the propose objective and principle for local government funding reform . in that consultation , we propose to update the way we account for council tax in determine local authority funding allocation , so that future allocation more effectively account for the differ ability to raise council tax income across the country . as my hon . friend have point out , that mean that somewhere like Hartlepool , where the tax base be weak because of the high number of home in band a to C , will not be treat the same as an authority in the south - east that have a high number of home in band e to H and therefore have great council tax revenue - raise power . that will be part of a wide set of change to improve the approach to funding allocation within the local government finance settlement by ensure that they reflect an up - to - date assessment of need and , importantly , local resource . those funding reform be part of a comprehensive set of reform for public service to fix the foundation of local government . that will be do in partnership with the sector and on the principle of give forward notice and certainty to allow time for council to plan for the future . although the Government recognise the argument in favour of council tax revaluation and reform , there be currently no plan to reform council tax in this Parliament , as I have say . significant change to local government structure , governance , accountability , audit , standard and financing be take place alongside an ambitious programme of devolution and , of course , local government reorganisation . I say that because we can not overstate the amount of change take place in a very short time within a system that have be leave quite fragile , as my hon . friend will know , after 14 year of mismanagement by the previous Government . Somerset council be in the position of have to raise council tax this year , but a recent external assurance review report that a significant proportion of the council ' s budget shortfall be attributable to decision take by the previous Conservative Administration , who recklessly freeze council tax for a record six - year period . in the light of the pressure on council across the country , will the Minister commit to give we a timetable for reform so that council can plan well ahead and deliver essential service ? that be an important point . in a sense , we can draw up a fair and more balanced system , and build more security into it . what a system can never do be accommodate every localise decision and how it present . in the end , there have to be local check and balance , and that must come through the ballot box . it sound as if voter in the hon . member ' s area have cast that judgment . we be commit to reform and to move at pace , but we recognise in do that that the system be fragile . we be undertake reform of the business rate system and revaluation , and a lot of devolution deal will come forward where intricate settlement be be work towards , which will be important . all that , of course , rest on local government be strong and stable enough to support it . we completely recognise all the issue around adult social care , child ' s service and temporary accommodation , which mean that council be be overwhelmed . there be £ 69 billion available through the funding allocation this year , £ 5 billion of which be new money , and for the first time ever there be £ 600 million through the recovery grant , which be about bridge to the multi - year settlement . we have recognise the urgency and depth of the crisis that many council find themselves in , but we be also honest in say that it will take more than seven month to repair 14 year of harm . we be get on with the job , and we be determined to get it right . shire county have have their settlement funding cut from more than £ 300 per person in 2015 to less than £ 200 per person now . do the Minister recognise that county such as Devon have huge road network to maintain , and that that difference in funding help to explain why road in Devon be fall apart ? I think that after the last 14 year , road in quite a lot of England be fall apart . that be why we inject another £ 500 million into pothole repair this year , because we know that local people feel that issue acutely . we also recognise , as I say before , that this will take long than seven month . on financing , we be clear that the current formula need to be review . it be not good enough any more to keep on have a formula that be not fit for purpose , and which be supplement by top - up that change depend on the whim of the Government of the day . if this be a genuinely fair funding formula , it must be fair when test . that mean that wherever someone be in the country , and whatever their local circumstance , they know that those issue have be take into account . some of that will involve deprivation or the ability to raise tax at a local level , but some of it will involve demand on service , include rurality . we must ensure that in the review we rebuilt trust and confidence as well as sustainability , and the hon . Gentleman have my commitment that we be determined to ensure that that work be do with integrity . we recognise the urgency to fix the foundation , and to tackle the underlie issue that we have talk about . for all the criticism of the current council tax system — many of which be completely legitimate — it have some advantage . first , it be a settle tax that taxpayer understand , and notwithstanding the uncollected element that be mention early , pound for pound it have a high collection rate . on that basis , revenue be relatively predictable , which mean that local authority have great certainty for their financial planning . council tax be genuinely local . the money be collect locally , retain locally , and authority will make decision on the band d level base on their local requirement and delivery priority . reform council tax be an enormous problem and I do not underestimate the scale of the task , but do the Minister recognise that council tax be even more regressive than the poll tax it replace ? the system particularly affect my constituency , Hartlepool and the north - east , and other region as well , where people be pay a premium for live in the poor community with the few service and facility . do he accept that council tax be widen inequality in our country ? I accept that there be inherent issue with council tax , not least the way that the banding system work . because of the inherent land and property value in less affluent place , people in a low - band property in a poor part of the country will pay more for public service than those in more affluent property elsewhere . those more affluent place can collect sufficient amount to fund local public service , where other area clearly can not do that . the situation have be make significantly bad by a Government who remove that central support over a decade , so council tax be take on a significant burden of the weight of local public service . we be keen to address that imbalance through the funding review that we be undertake . member will know that local authority have control over the discretionary working age council tax support scheme , and the council tax system also include a range of discount and exemption to reflect the personal characteristic of occupier and to support those less able to pay . these include the single - person discount , exemption for student and disregard for carer , the mentally impaired — a term I would not choose to use , but that be the term use in legislation — and apprentice . the Government will consult on the administration of council tax later this year and consider the case for modernise support in the system for those who need it . however , I recognise the challenge that council tax create for some taxpayer and local authority . I therefore want to reaffirm that this Government be keen to continue work with my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool and his APPG to understand the issue in the council tax system and what option for reform be available to we . question put and agree to . House adjourn .