Oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — violence against Women and Girls : prevention in Schools if she will make an assessment of the effectiveness of primary prevention measure in school in tackle violence against woman and girl . education have a role to play in the prevention of violence against woman and girl , and it be essential to the Government ' s safe street mission . we be review the relationship , sex and health education guidance to ensure that it enable school to tackle harmful behaviour , because we be determined to ensure that misogyny be stamp out and not allow to proliferate in school . we know that sexual violence be a critical problem in our school . in 2021 , in response to Ofsted ' s rapid review , 92 % of girl and 74 % of boy say that sexist name be use " sometimes " or " a lot " . Harassment of this kind have become commonplace in educational setting , and harmful sexual practice be become a risk . will the Minister meet I , and White Ribbon UK , to discuss how primary prevention measure can be introduce into school curriculum to tackle violence against woman and girl ? I would be more than happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that issue far . she bring real expertise from her background in education , and it be essential that we do more to tackle the behaviour that she have identify . I welcome the work of White Ribbon , and I hope other member will be able to support that work later this month . when it come to young boy and young girl in school , and when it come to bullying and , sometimes , thing that happen at home , the relationship between the teacher or classroom assistant and the pupil be very important , make it possible to identify problem that may arise at home and then roll over into school . can the Minister give we some idea of what be be do to improve that relationship , so that child who fall by the wayside can be save ? the hon . Gentleman have raise an important issue . it be crucial for teacher and school staff to have what they need in order to tackle harmful behaviour and language in school . sadly , sometimes the very staff he talk about be on the receive end of such attitude and behaviour , which be completely unacceptable . as Education Secretary , I will do all I can to ensure that school staff and teacher in England have the support they need in tackle behaviour of this kind . violence against Women and girl what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle violence against woman and girl . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle violence against woman and girl . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle violence against woman and girl . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to tackle violence against woman and girl . this Government be commit to use all the lever at our disposal to deliver our mission to halve violence against woman and girl . we have already announce our intention to embed specialist domestic abuse adviser in 999 control room , launch pilot for the new domestic abuse protection order , and implement a duty on employer to anticipate occasion when sexual harassment may occur and take responsible step to prevent it . I be very pleased to hear that from the Minister . I be proud that in Stevenage , independent domestic violence advocate and independent sexual violence advocate work for Survivors against Domestic Abuse — also know as SADA — do brilliant but challenging work support those who be at risk and suffering as a result of domestic or sexual abuse throughout Hertfordshire . there be no doubt that idva and isva be a key part of domestic abuse provision across the country , so will the Minister assure I that the Government will continue to support they in the vital work that they do ? have do that work myself , I be more than happy to champion and praise the work of idva and isva . as my hon . friend might imagine , we will use every tool available to we , include those vital role , to target perpetrator and address the root cause of abuse and violence . when I speak to the chief constable of Norfolk constabulary recently , he tell I that if a suspect be arrest and charge today with a serious sexual offence such as rape , the Crown court trial could commence in the spring of 2026 , which be more than a year away . that be totally unacceptable . what can the Minister do to reassure woman in Norfolk who be wait for their case to be hear ? it be indeed totally unacceptable , and it be , I be afraid , a legacy of a totally fail justice system . we know that owe to the complexity of the system , rape victim be often leave to wait disproportionately long than other who be already wait too long . in our manifesto we commit ourselves to fast - track rape case . we be carefully consider the good way to do that , along with colleague at the Ministry of Justice who lead on this work , and we will announce our plan in due course . I recently join a Reclaim the Night march in Greenhead park in my constituency . the first of these marche take place in Leeds in the 1970 , and they be still important , because a woman be kill every three day in the UK . what action be we take to prioritise reduce the level of violence against woman and girl , and also to create safe environment at night ? I thank my hon . friend for question . the first march be in 1977 and , frankly , progress have be too slow if we still need to march . we will use a cross - government , transformative approach to halve violence against woman and girl , and that will be underpin by a new violence against woman and girl strategy , to be publish next year . that will include drastically improve the police and criminal justice response . prevention and education be also absolutely fundamental to our approach , and we will work across key Departments , include the Department for Education , to tackle the root cause of these crime . pupil in my constituency be benefit from pioneer workshop that be design to increase awareness of sexual violence and misogyny through a project call " Don ' t steal my future " . do the Minister agree that raise awareness of sexual violence in an age - appropriate way be vital to keep young people safe ? if so , will she come with I to meet the team at the Rape and Sexual Abuse Support Centre North Wales ? the simple answer be yes , I do agree . as somebody who have write and deliver such programme in school , I know that brilliant work be go on across the country in local authority , multi - academy trust and more widely , with voluntary sector organisation do a lot of the work . I would be glad to explore with official the good way to learn from those who work with child and young people , because we have to work out what will work in our school and then make sure that we put it out everywhere . in the last Parliament , we back Benchers try and fail several time to make misogyny a hate crime . legislation can be a powerful game changer . be it not time we make misogyny a hate crime ? the Government be absolutely committed to tackle misogyny , both before it start and when it exist . hate crime review be be undertake , and I be more than happy to meet the hon . Lady . I have meet she many time to discuss this subject . woman flee domestic violence be vulnerable and in desperate need of support and help , but often local authority , which be suppose to help , do not enable woman to get a place to live or receive their benefit . in the last Parliament , we try to make sure that woman in such circumstance could have a relative claim their benefit . what action will the Minister take to ensure that those woman be give the support that they need in their desperate time ? I could not agree more with the hon . Gentleman , and I remember his valiant effort during the passage of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 . the Government have commit to ensure that local connection do not apply in case such as those he talk about . with regard to benefit , the Department for Work and Pensions be very much part of the mission group on violence against woman and girl , and I will absolutely raise his point . we will seek to make sure that when and wherever people crop up with these issue , their local authority and local system be in place . in the 12 month to July 2024 , 22 , 403 violence against woman and girl offence be record in Northern Ireland . will the Minister outline what discussion she have have with the Police Service of Northern Ireland about get strong conviction rate for such incident of violence ? I have speak to the Chief Constable of the psni within the last week , and he have request that we go over to Northern Ireland . that trip be plan for early in the new year , and I would very much welcome work with colleague in this House and the devolved Government to make sure that we be all work together on this issue . a constituent of mine come to see I in distress a couple of week ago , have be a victim of rape in 2021 . she have now be give a date in 2026 for her case to be hear . I be sure the whole House will agree with I that that be completely unacceptable . she have be deny access to mental health support during this time , because it may impact her defence . what be the Minister ' s thought on that matter ? I would like to say very clearly from the Dispatch Box that it be a total myth that people can not access mental health support when await trial . it be something that have creep in over the year , and I would like it to be stamp out for good across all agency . I run a rape crisis service that definitely serve people who be await trial . if I be the Member of Parliament represent the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , I would push back on that assertion and say that it be certainly not the policy . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . datum show we that woman of colour face disproportionate rate of homicide and that adult of black , black british or mixed ethnicity be more likely to experience sexual assault than those of white , asian or other ethnicity . these challenge be just as common when it come to domestic abuse . those people be less likely to access support service than white woman . we desperately need strong action to support these vulnerable woman , so can the Minister tell I how the Government will ensure that we help more woman from ethnic minority background to get the support that they need and end the injustice that they face ? I could not agree more with the hon . Lady , as she might imagine , consider the seat that I represent . we need a strong " by and for " service in our country . we need to ensure that the geographical location of someone in the country do not matter , and that specialist service be available for black and minority ethnic woman and other marginalised group — for example , disabled victim of domestic abuse or victim of domestic abuse in the armed force . there need to be a specialist approach for specialist group and we will be make sure that that be part of our violence against woman and girl strategy . disabled People : discrimination what step she be take to help end discrimination against disabled people . what step she be take to help end discrimination against disabled people . our manifesto commit we to champion the right of , and work with , disabled people , put their view and voice at the heart of all we do . we want a more inclusive society , remove the unnecessary barrier that have too often hold disabled people back . I want to draw the Minister ' s attention to the fact that almost one in five people in my constituency be class as disabled , and after 14 year of a Conservative Government who slash public service , there be still far too many people in South Derbyshire who report that their daily activity be significantly limit by their condition . what more can this Government do in my constituency to support disabled people in access care as well as career and educational opportunity ? my hon . friend , in describe her constituency , speak for the whole country . disabled people and people with health impairment be very diverse , and we want to promote diverse , specialist initiative to support people to stay in work , to get back into work if they have lose their job , and to progress in work , include by join up local employment and help support . we need to remove barrier to access service as well . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . I be sure that many of we will welcome commitment from the Government to remove barrier to work for disabled people , but disability charity have outline concern about the Government ' s plan for work capability assessment reform and change to personal independence payment and the access to work scheme . will the Minister please commit to work with disability charity to ensure that any change to those scheme , include any propose by the previous Government , be make alongside consultation with the people those policy will affect ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . as I have say , we be commit to put the view and voice of disabled people at the heart of everything we do and , in look at these issue , to consult properly and amply with disabled people and with their organisation . nowhere be disabled people more discriminated against than on Britain ' s railway . the previous Government have an Access for all scheme that would allow disabled people to get to platform that be otherwise inaccessible . this have be put on hold by the new Government . can the Minister tell I what discussion he have have with his colleague in the Department for Transport and when we might see station such as Whitchurch make accessible to people who can not manage step ? I be afraid that I can not talk about the situation at Whitchurch , but the hon . Lady speak for many on this , as there have be some high - profile and troubling instance of problem in this area over recent month . this be a good example of the kind of issue where , as Ministers , we need to be talk across Government Departments and make sure that barrier , like the one she have describe , be remove . we be determined to do that . young woman and girl in my constituency travel abroad to stay with relative , sometimes for several week or month , and they get into difficulty or be impact by safeguard issue . will the Secretary of State confirm what support be available to help repatriate such girl who have dual nationality and have , in many instance , have false allegation make against they by perpetrator who do not want they to leave the country ? that question be perhaps more relevant to the previous group of question , but I be very happy to make sure that we write to the hon . Gentleman to set out the support that be available . support Women into Work what step the Government be take to support woman back into work . we be lay the foundation for all employer to create condition that enable woman to return to work and to thrive in their career . as part of our effort to make work pay , we will improve access to flexible working , strengthen workplace protection for new mother and review the parental leave system . parent of pre - school child in South Devon be find it all but impossible to find nursery or pre - school place due to the lack of availability and the financial pressure that such establishment be under . this be make it extremely difficult for parent , often mother , who would like to return to work after have child . how will the Department for Education and the Office for Equality and Opportunity work together to increase the number of nursery and provide they with adequate funding to ensure that woman be provide with all the support they need to return to work ? the hon . Lady be right to identify that accessible and affordable childcare be essential for make sure that woman , in particular , be able to work , to work the hour that suit they and to progress in their career . that be why we have confirm that we will be expand Government - fund childcare with an initial £ 1 . 8 billion . as part of that programme , we will be roll out 3 , 000 new or expand primary - base nursery . application be open , and school be encourage to participate . the all - party parliamentary group on domestic violence and abuse be reconstitute this week . as its chair , I be pleased to report that , at our first meeting , we hear from survivor and organisation that support survivor in the workplace . the Minister will be aware that the gender pay gap persist . do she agree that more could be do to support survivor in the workplace , such as by have domestic abuse policy in every workplace , and by consider pay leave and flexible working , so that survivor can get the life - change support they need and can stay in work ? I agree with the hon . Lady . before I come to this place , I run a refuge for woman and child affect by domestic violence . during that time , I see some good example of employer support woman who be go through a very difficult time in their life . there be more that we can ask of employer , and there be more that we , as a Government , be commit to achieve , especially through the gender pay gap action plan we will be take forward , and through halve violence against woman and girl . I call the shadow Minister . it be work woman who will pay the price for Labour ' s Budget of broken promise , with the increase to employer ' national insurance contribution make work people bad off and affect childcare setting . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation have say that single - parent family — 80 % of they be head by woman — will , on average , be £ 1 , 000 bad off by October 2029 . have the Minister assess what additional negative impact there will be on the labour market of the hidden scrapping of the child benefit change for single - parent household ? this have be describe by Martin Lewis as an " unfair " penalty to single - parent household . we be commit to transform the life of woman across our country , and that apply to single parent , too . I be lead the child poverty taskforce with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . unlike the last government , we be commit to drive down the number of child grow up in poverty . the last Government leave a shocking record of rise level of child poverty , and this Government will turn it around . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I draw the House ' s attention to Islamophobia Awareness Month . no one in our country should be target because of their faith or race , and british Muslims be a crucial part of Britain ' s history and society . more widely , the Office for Equality and Opportunity be already make great stride . the new Employment Rights Bill will legislate for a strong duty to prevent sexual harassment , and action plan will cover the gender pay gap and menopause issue . we will open a consultation on extend pay gap reporting and equal pay right to ethnic minority and disabled people . the disability charity sense estimate that 200 , 000 disabled child across the UK be struggle to get the right school support , because of funding issue and a need to employ more multisensory impairment teacher to ensure deafblind child can access education . what step be the Minister take to ensure disabled child be represent in the forthcoming child ' s wellbee Bill ? my hon . friend champion the right of disabled child . he be right to do so because when it come to support for child with special educational need and disability , the system we have at the moment just be not work , as show all too clearly by the recent National Audit Office report . I be determined to listen to parent , expert , charity and other to ensure we reform the system to provide more timely intervention and support for child and family , and ensure all child in our country be able to thrive . I call the shadow Minister for Equalities . I be honour to take on the role of shadow Minister for Equalities and I pay tribute to my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , who will be at this Dispatch Box shortly . the equality brief underpin value that I cherish : fairness , freedom , meritocracy and equality under the law . I believe people should be judge by the content of their character , not the colour of their skin or any other identity characteristic . do the Secretary of State agree that equality be not about group identity or place one section of society on a platform above another , but about individual freedom and responsibility ? I welcome the right hon . Lady to her place . I look forward to work with she on area where we can agree and where we can take such concern forward on a cross - party basis , wherever possible . I believe that she , like I , be passionate about tackle violence against woman and girl . as she set out , I believe that everyone in our country should have the chance to achieve all that they be capable of achieve . our mission across Government be to ensure that where people be from do not determine what they can go on to achieve . during the election campaign , the conservative party commit to clarify the definition of " sex " in the Equality Act 2010 to protect woman ' s right . at the end of this month , for Women Scotland v . Scottish Ministers will be hear in the UK Supreme Court . the case will have far - reach consequence for sex - base right , so can the Government assure the House that they be now clear that the definition in " sex " in the Equality Act 2010 mean biological sex ? the right hon . Lady will appreciate that I will not comment on ongoing case . however , I can be clear that the Equality Act 2010 set out that provider , for example , have the right to restrict access to service on the basis of biological sex . this Government be proud of our achievement in legislate for the Equality Act . we will ensure provider can continue to support single - sex exemption , and it be important that provider have clarity in this area . I would be happy to work with she to ensure that be the case . will the Minister have discussion with the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government on how pavement design and layout can be improve to enhance navigability for blind and visually impair people ? that be good example of the kind of discussion we need among Ministers responsible for disability across Government . department for Transport guidance on inclusive mobility and on tactile pave surface advise how design and layout can inform visually impair people , include about hazard and direction . I be happy to pursue the subject far with my hon . friend . the Voluntary Organisations Disability Group represent over 100 charity , include Mencap and Sense . it have say that the Budget will have " life - change consequence " and its chief executive have say that the " labour government be let they down " . it say the increase in national insurance contribution will put frontline service at risk , so what will the Government do to mitigate that risk for those charity , which be so important to those with disability ? we be work very closely with disability organisation , and I pay tribute to the work of those to which the hon . Gentleman refer . we will certainly ensure that barrier that too often confront disabled people be remove by this Government . that be the mission that we be on . accord to the Darzi report , there have be a substantial decline in the social determinant of health , such as poor - quality housing , access to clean air and good nutrition . how be the Minister work with Cabinet colleague to include health in policy that address those social determinant of health and tackle the health inequality that be the legacy the Conservative Government leave the country to deal with ? my hon . friend bring real expertise to the House in this area . we be commit across Government to tackle the social determinant of health and the stark health inequality that sadly blight the life chance of too many across our country . during a hospital stay , my constituent , a new mother with an exclusively breastfe infant , encounter resistance from staff when try to keep her child with she . the distress cause leave she need post - traumatic stress disorder therapy . what step be the Minister take with Government colleague to ensure that hospital support breastfeed mother appropriately ? the hon . Lady raise an important point , and I be very sorry to hear about her constituent ' s experience . I will make sure that a Health Minister pick up on that point and have a conversation with she , because new mother , include those who be breastfeed , absolutely deserve the right level of support and advice . Australia , Canada , Germany and the Netherlands have call on Afghanistan to cease what they say be violation of the UN convention on the elimination of all form of discrimination against woman . this be the precursor before they take their case to the International Court of Justice . will the UK be join they ? Mr Speaker , please forgive I , but I do not quite hear all of my hon . friend ' s question , but I will make sure that the issue she identify be pick up by the relevant Minister and that she receive a full response . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I wish to welcome our special guest , his Excellency the Speaker of the House of the People of Somalia , who will be observe our proceeding today . your Excellency , you be most welcome . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 13 November . on Monday , I be honour to join President Macron to mark Armistice Day in Paris and , together , we pay tribute to the fall of the first world war , and all subsequent conflict , who make the ultimate sacrifice for the freedom that we enjoy today . I also attend the COP summit . my focus , as ever , be on british energy security and the job of the future that should be on our shore — central issue of concern to people in this country . it be also Islamophobia Awareness Month , and I reaffirm our commitment to stand against discrimination and racism in all their form . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . in the two week since the Budget , several gp practice in my constituency of Edinburgh West , include my own , have contact I with their genuine fear that the impact of the change to national insurance employer contribution will threaten their ability to continue to offer the public the same standard of health service that they currently receive . and they be far from the only one struggle , particularly in the health and social care sector . can the Prime Minister explain to I — perhaps he and his Chancellor would like to come to my constituency and explain to GPs , charity and other — how they be mean to cope without extra support from the Government ? because of the tough decision that we take , we have put forward a Budget with an extra £ 25 . 6 billion for the NHS and for social care . that include an increase to carer ' allowance and £ 600 million to deal with the pressure of adult social care . we will ensure that GP practice have the resource that they need , and the funding arrangement between the NHS and contractor will be set out in the usual way . member have raise their concern about a range of damaging policy pursue by the Leader of the Opposition . this include vote against critical investment for our NHS , state that maternity pay be excessive and the minimum wage a burden , and even back harmful fracking when last in government . be the Prime Minister aware of any attempt by the Leader of the Opposition to justify these dangerous position , which would cause untold damage to community such as mine in South Dorset ? this Government have give million of people a pay rise of £ 1 , 400 by boost the minimum wage . we have strengthen parental leave with well right for parent and put huge investment into our school and NHS — and all that while ensure that the payslip of work people have not be affect . it be clear whose side we be on : the work people of this country . I have not hear the Leader of the Opposition clarify why she oppose all these thing , but now be her chance . I call the Leader of the Opposition . the Prime Minister can plant as many question as he like with his Back Benchers , but at the end of the day I be the one he have to face at the Dispatch Box . I welcome he back from his trip to Azerbaijan , where he have unilaterally make commitment that will make life more expensive for everyone back home . speak of make life — [ interruption . ] order . somebody be suggest read ; I think you will notice that the Prime Minister also read , so please get your act together . I can pre - prepare my question , but the Prime Minister need to answer from his mind . he have make life more expensive with his unilateral commitment but , speak of make life more expensive , will the Prime Minister confirm that he will keep the cap on council tax ? the right hon . Lady talk of the trip to COP . I be very proud of the fact that we be restore leadership on climate to the UK , because that will be measure in low bill , energy independence and the job of the future . she may have miss this , but on Monday I be very pleased to announce a huge order into job in Hull for blade for offshore wind . if she be oppose to that sort of action , she should go to Hull and say so . on the question of council , she know what the arrangement be . I think the House will have hear that the Prime Minister could neither confirm nor deny whether the cap on council tax be be raise , so I will ask he this : how much extra do he expect local authority will have to raise to cover the social care funding gap create by the Chancellor ' s Budget and increase in employer ' NI ? he tell the hon . member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) just now that he be cover social care . how much extra do he expect local authority to raise ? this knockabout be all very well , but not actually listen to what I say three minute ago be a bit of a fundamental failure of the Leader of the Opposition . I just say £ 600 million , and I repeat it : £ 600 million . the Prime Minister have repeat that number because he have probably not listen to the labour - run Local Government Association , which say that with no separate funding for the Chancellor ' s Budget announcement , care provider would likely see increase cost , which will cost council more . all of the £ 600 million in grant increase he be give will not cover what be require for adult social care . it be clear that the Government have not think through the impact of the Budget , and this be the problem with have a copy - and - paste Chancellor . do they not realise that care home , GP surgery , child ' s nursery , hospice and even charity have to pay employer ' NI ? we have put more money into local authority than the Conservatives do in 14 year . they leave they in an absolutely catastrophic state . we have produce a Budget that do not increase tax on work people — nothing in the payslip — and be invest in our NHS , invest in our school so every child can go as far as their talent will take they , and invest in the house of the future . if she be against those thing , she should say so . I be not against any of those thing — [ hon . member : " ah ! " ] of course not ; none of we be against any of those thing . but the Prime Minister have confirm that he do not know what be go on . he probably do not realise that on Monday the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government reveal that council will need to find an additional £ 2 . 4 billion in council tax next year . that be a lot more than £ 600 million . I know he have be away , but do the Deputy Prime Minister , who run that Department , make he aware of their £ 2 . 4 billion black hole ? let I get this straight : the Leader of the Opposition do not want any of the measure in the Budget , but she want all the benefit ? the magic money tree be back after two week in office . the Conservatives have learn absolutely nothing . we have put forward a budget that take the difficult decision , fix the £ 22 billion black hole that they leave and invest in the future of our country . they say that they want all that , but they do not know how they will pay for it — same old Tories . even the Prime Minister must admit that Labour fiddle the fiscal rule . the Office for Budget Responsibility have say that it do not recognise where the additional growth will come from . the fact be that the rise in employer national insurance will be a disaster for small business around the country . let I tell you about Kelly , Mr Speaker . for over 20 year , Kelly have run an after - school club business support 500 child and family in her borough . in 2024 , her national insurance cost be about £ 10 , 000 ; in April , that will rise to £ 26 , 000 — that be a 150 % increase in cost from the Budget alone . if Kelly ' s small business go under , what be the Prime Minister ' s message to she and the 500 family it support ? I would say this to Kelly : we inherit a very badly damage economy and a £ 22 billion black hole , and we be not prepared to continue with the fiction . we stabilise — [ interruption . ] order . Ms Lopez , I be sure I can expect well from you as a parliamentary private Secretary . I would say to Kelly that we be fix the mess that we be leave and be invest in the future of our country . I would also say to she that the Leader of the Opposition , in week two , want all the benefit from the Budget but have no way of say how she will pay for they — the same old mistake over and over again . the Prime Minister have nothing to offer but platitude . the fact be that the Government do not know what they be do . their ideological Budget be design to milk the private sector and hope that nobody would notice . now , his Cabinet Ministers be all queue up for public sector bail - out for his tax mess . if he be go to bail out the public sector , perhaps he can tell we this : do he think it appropriate to approve — as the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government have do — a four - day week for council ? that be not flexible working but part - time work for full - time pay . question base on what we be actually do be usually well than make - up fantasy question . what do the Tories deliver in 14 year ? low growth , a stagnant economy , a disastrous mini - Budget and a £ 22 billion black hole . and now , the Leader of the Opposition want to give I advice on run the economy . I do not want to be rude , but no , thank you very much . town like Southport need investment and support after 14 year of decline under the conservative party . will the Prime Minister confirm that his Budget will provide that much - need investment for town like mine , and that , unlike under the previous Government , my local authority and the public service that my town rely on will finally be properly support ? may I begin by pay tribute to my hon . friend and his Southport constituent they have show extraordinary courage and resilience as they try to rebuild from the devastating tragedy and loss of early this year . we will ensure that the people of Southport be support now and in the year to come . the Budget be design to fix the crucial service that his constituent rely on , include through £ 1 . 3 billion of new funding for local government , and investment in safe street and in the future of our NHS . that be the direction in which we be take the country . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . when it come to fix the crisis in the nhs that he have inherit , the Prime Minister have rightly recognise the need to improve access to GPs , but as be the case for my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) , GPs in my constituency be write to tell I how worried they be about the national insurance hike ' s impact on patient care . I listen very carefully to what the Prime Minister say to my hon . friend , but I hope he will think again . will he at least exempt GPs , community pharmacist and other health and care provider from that tax rise ? I hear the point that the right hon . Gentleman make , and I understand the concern . we have make a huge investment in our NHS — the big ever investment in our NHS for many , many year — and certainly almost all the people work in the NHS be very pleased to see that investment in they and in their service . on the question of GPs , we will ensure that they have the resource they need , and the funding arrangement will be set out in the usual way later this year . I have to say , I think patient , GPs and other listen to that answer will want more reassurance , and will want it much more quickly . turn to the war in Ukraine , a senior adviser to President - elect Trump , Donald Trump junior , have share a post on Instagram declare that soon , within the next few week , President Zelensky will " lose his allowance " . if the Trump Administration do withdraw support from our brave ukrainian ally , will the UK and Europe step up to fill the gap ? will the Prime Minister seize frozen russian asset — not just the interest , but the asset underlie it — so that we can fund a huge boost to the ukrainian force in their fight against Putin ' s war machine ? as the right hon . Gentleman know , we have be resolute and strong in our support for Ukraine in the face of russian aggression . as he also know , in recent week , I have be speak with other leader about how we put Ukraine in the good and strong possible position at this time . I will continue those discussion . child poverty be a national scandal . in St Helens North , it increase by over 50 % under the previous Government . do the Prime Minister agree that we need to address this scandal , ideally cross - party ? if so , do he share my concern that the Conservatives have oppose action that we be take with the Budget , employment right , housing and more , not to mention their leader ' s comment on maternity pay , which suggest they just do not get what work family and their child need ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . under the conservative party , we see child poverty increase by 700 , 000 . this be a Budget that not only invest in our NHS and our school , but ensure that work people will not face a penny extra in their payslip or at the petrol pump . that be because when it come to the tough decision on tax , we have not touch national insurance , income tax or vat , just as we promise , on work people . we also give 3 million of the low pay a pay rise , something that the conservative party seem to be oppose . Lebanon be in crisis , and my constituent Catherine Flanagan be in despair . her three - year - old son David Nahle have be out of her care for the past two year . the Belfast High Court have indicate that he should be return to his mother and have issue a bench warrant for the arrest of his father . however , when my constituent flee domestic violence in Beirut , she get no help or assistance from the UK embassy , and when she have seek assistance from the Foreign and Commonwealth Office to be reunite with her son — to see her son again , and for this british citizen to come back to the UK — she have not receive the assistance that she , or I and our community , expect she should . will the Prime Minister engage with this issue and , at the very least , ask the Foreign Secretary to assist my constituent in her earnest desire to see her three - year - old son again ? I thank the right hon . member for raise this case , and for all he be do on behalf of Catherine and David — I hope they get some comfort from know that they have an MP work so hard on their behalf . it be a complex and difficult situation , but of course I will make sure that the relevant meeting be set up with the relevant Ministers to ensure the right hon . member get the answer he need on behalf of his constituent . my constituency be the home of UK brewing , and have the good pub in the country . the Prime Minister be welcome to join I for a pint to sample the very good beer in the world . as this Government look to reform business rate and consult on those change , will he commit to ensure that pub and hospitality have a seat at the table ? the last time I go to my hon . friend ' s constituency I get to see the fantastic South Derbyshire college . I look forward to test his proposition that he have the good pub in his constituency on some future occasion . pub and brewery be such an important part of our culture and our community . that be why the Budget deliver an £ 85 million per year tax cut for pub , reduce the duty on a pint . we also deliver a 40 % relief on business rate for next year , permanently lower they the year after . we be protect small business by more than double the employer allowance to £ 10 , 500 . in the past week , there have be report that more school be slate for closure as a direct consequence of the Prime Minister ' s ideologically drive policy to introduce vat on school fee and increase national insurance contribution . this pattern will be see up and down the country and will lead to staff be unemployed and pupil and parent be cast adrift . will the Prime Minister do the decent thing , abandon this policy and apologise to those affect ? I do understand the concern of those who save to send their child to private school because they believe in aspiration and opportunity . every single parent share that aspiration to opportunity , whichever school they send their child to . under the last government , we do not have enough teacher in basic subject in our state secondary school . the Tories be prepared to tolerate that . I be not . three million people across the country , include an estimate 70 , 000 in Wales , will benefit from Labour ' s Budget measure on the minimum wage and the national living wage . member should contrast that with the Leader of the Opposition , who say that the minimum wage be hurt business , or the shadow Chancellor , who call the minimum wage a " burden " . do the Prime Minister agree that those comment underline that the Tories have no interest in protect work people or boost the income of the low pay ? it be the last Labour Government who introduce the national minimum wage — in the tooth of opposition from the Tory party . I be proud that this Government have now increase it by over 16 % . that mean an increase of over £ 2 , 500 a year for a full - time worker age 18 to 20 . whether it be our Employment Rights Bill or decision at the Budget , this be a Government who be proudly on the side of Britain ' s work people . now that Sue Gray have , remarkably , turn down the opportunity to be the Prime Minister ' s special envoy to the nation , will he finally admit that it be an invent job on taxpayer ' money for one of his crony ? if it wasn ' t , be he go to hire a new one ? it wasn ' t . I represent load of hard - work mum and dad in Tipton , Wednesbury and Coseley . last week , the Leader of the Opposition ' s campaign chair , Rachel Maclean , say it be not the right decision for the Tories to expand childcare provision . will the Prime Minister confirm that this Labour Government believe in support work family and will work to get they the childcare they need ? let I be absolutely clear : this Government be commit to make childcare more affordable and accessible . the Tory party vote against make life easy for work family . they have learn absolutely nothing . we be commit to provide £ 1 . 8 billion to expand access across childcare , create 3 , 000 new school - base nursery and family hub . I be proud that we be take the country in the right direction . article 2 of the United Nations genocide convention make it explicit that genocide be not about number ; it be about intent . the intent of the israeli Government and the Israel Defence Forces have be explicit in word and action over the past 400 day , with more than 45 , 000 innocent man , woman and child kill . on 28 October , the Foreign Secretary deny that a genocide be even take place and suggest that the israeli army have not yet kill enough Palestinians to constitute a genocide . last week at Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister state that he have never refer to the atrocity happen in Gaza as a genocide . will he share his definition of genocide with the House and state what further action he be prepared to take to save the life of desperate and starve man , woman and child , give that we now hold the presidency of the United Nations Security Council ? it would be wise to start a question like that by a reference to what happen in October of last year . I be well aware of the definition of genocide , and that be why I have never describe this or refer to it as genocide . my constituent ' s daughter , Bethany Rae Fields , be brutally murder by her ex - boyfriend in 2019 , despite raise multiple alarm of her abuse to the police . this week , Bethany ' s mother Pauline travel down to Parliament to bring her case to the Minister . do the Prime Minister agree with Pauline that more need to be do to shift the culture towards believe victim and react fast when they sound the alarm of concern , as one way to reduce violence against woman and girl ? what happen to Bethany be appal , and my thought , as I be sure be those of the whole House , be with her family . we need a culture shift here , and we have commit to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade . no Government have ever make that commitment before , and I hope that can be something that be share across the House , because this be so important . it start with that central question of belief and confidence : for every woman or young woman who come forward , there be probably about nine who never have the confidence to come forward , and this start with belief and the culture that we put in place . we be committed to that , and I invite the whole House to join we on that mission to halve violence against woman and girl . I be sure the Prime Minister and the whole House would wish to congratulate Donald Trump on his landslide victory last week — order . I will hear the question . thank you , Mr Speaker . within a couple of day we have learn of a third assassination attempt . charge have be lay , and behind it be Iran ' s Revolutionary Guard . have the time not come to proscribe what be so obviously a terrorist organisation , and in do so , not just do the right thing , but perhaps mend some fence between this Government and the incoming presidency of Donald Trump , give that the whole of the Prime Minister ' s Cabinet have be so rude about he over the last few year ? I be glad to see the hon . member make a rare appearance back here in Britain . he have spend so much time in America recently that I be half expect to see he in the immigration statistic when we see the next batch — [ interruption . ] he may have miss it , but I congratulate the incoming President last week , and we will work with he . the point the hon . Member make about Iran be very serious , and we will work across the House and with our ally on it . obviously on the question of proscription , we keep that under review . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s recognition of Islamophobia Awareness Month , and his commitment to support muslim community . the definition of Islamophobia from the all - party parliamentary group on british Muslims be one of the most widely accept definition , and I have be discuss its adoption with the Deputy Prime Minister , the Faith Minister , and the Leader of the House . give recent riot and a doubling of Islamophobic hate crime over the past decade , will the Prime Minister outline the step that this Government will take to tackle the issue , and commit to ensure a clear and effective definition of Islamophobia ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important issue . whatever the hatred , there have be a rise in the past 12 or so month , and the whole House will join I in say that we must meet any rise in hatred in whatever form it be , include Islamophobia . we be work with other to take that forward , and I be happy to meet he far on that . I be in South Lochaber at the weekend , speak to pensioner who still can not understand why the Prime Minister choose to take away their winter fuel payment . one of they remember from just two year ago the then Leader of the opposition state : " look ahead to winter be frightening . I ' ve meet pensioner who have no idea how they ' ll heat their home . " she ask I to ask the Prime Minister , whatever happen to that guy ? as the hon . Member know from previous answer , we have take tough decision in this Budget to deal with the situation that we face . because of that , we have stabilise the economy , which mean that we can commit to the triple lock , and because of the triple lock , pensioner will be well off . I will take no lecture from his party about run the economy ; the SNP ' s record in Scotland be terrible . I welcome the establishment of a flood resilience taskforce , because in my constituency of Broxtowe , unprecedented flooding have affect many of my constituent . there be rise concern and significant financial insecurity for many ; they face distress , trauma and fear in their own home . what other measure be the Prime Minister take to improve flood resilience ? what support will be available to my constituent in Broxtowe ? I know the dreadful impact that flooding have have on my hon . friend ' s constituency , include in Storm Henk early this year . the last Government leave flood defence in the bad condition on record . we be invest £ 2 . 4 billion in flood resilience over the next two year , and we have launch a flood resilience taskforce to co - ordinate national and local flood preparation to well protect community and our economy . [ interruption . ] rather than heckle , the opposition might reflect on the record that they leave . resident of my constituency of South Basildon and East Thurrock face a triple whammy of council tax increase by 50 % , reduce public service , and £ 1 billion of emergency funding that be be borrow at 1 % above base rate . that 1 % be approximately £ 10 million a year go to the Treasury that could be spend on frontline service in Thurrock . will the Prime Minister commit to reduce that rate , so that the money can go where it belong ? the last Government make life even more difficult for council need exceptional financial support by charge a premium on borrow . that be the wrong decision , and it have a huge impact on vital service . we will take a different approach . we be deliver a real - term increase in core government spending power , and that will benefit the hon . member ' s constituent . the Leader of the opposition take time at her party ' s conference to say that " a little bit of adversity " in life be good for people ' s mental health . that approach clearly do not work for the 2 million people stick on mental health waiting list because of the last Tory Government . will the Prime Minister commit to tackle mental health waiting list in the NHS ? we obviously recognise the devastating impact that mental health problem have on people ' s livelihood . Lord Darzi ' s report show that waiting list be far too long , and that there be a shocking decline in mental health for child under the last government . we be give mental health the commitment it need by recruit 8 , 500 mental health worker — they be much - needed — and reform the Mental Health Act ; in my view , that be long overdue . chalk stream river be rare and have a unique ecology . Most of they be in the UK , and two be in my constituency of North East Hampshire . last year , chalk stream river be hit with 14 , 000 hour of sewage discharge , but the previous Government do nothing , despite call for action from my hon . friend the Member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) . will the Prime Minister introduce a special protection for our chalk stream river ? I thank the hon . member for raise this issue . we be commit to the protection and restoration of unique chalk stream . she be right that the destruction of our waterway should never have be allow , and we have announce immediate action to end this disgraceful behaviour : new power and tough penalty , include fine ; ban bonus ; and bring criminal charge against those who persistently break the law . we have also launch a water commission . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s leadership on an international scale to smash the criminal gang that smuggle people across the border . this Labour Government have return more than 9 , 000 people with no right to be in the UK , which be 20 % more than the Conservatives do . will the Prime Minister confirm that he will continue this trend , and smash the gang that profit from people ' s misery ? yes . the last Government lose control of our border . in the first six month of this year , small boat arrival be up by 18 % on the same period last year . they spend £ 700 million return , what , four volunteer to Rwanda ? since come into office , we have return 9 , 400 people with no right to be here . they talk about get the flight off ; we have get the flight off , include the single big deportation flight . that be why we be invest another £ 75 million in smash the gang . we be absolutely determined to have a serious response to a serious question , not a gimmick that achieve absolutely nothing . I be sure that ensure that every child have access to a great education be a priority for all across the House , and I welcome the announcement on extra funding for child with special educational need and disability in the Budget . in the Chancellor ' s speech , she announce a £ 2 . 3 billion increase in core spending and £ 1 billion for SEN . however , the Budget document state that those sum be both from the same pot , in which case that spending be announce twice . which be correct ? the Chancellor make this absolutely clear in the Budget . we be put that huge investment into special educational need , an issue of concern across the House , because I think all member recognise the appalling record of the last Government . the appalling state of SEN have be raise by those on the hon . Gentleman ' s own Benches . I be proud of the money that the Government be put in where the last Government fail . not a week go by when my office be not contact by young people and their family who be be let down by the shocking state of SEN provision locally . in my constituency , I be try to work across party line to push both Central Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire council to do more . I welcome the fantastic news in the Budget about additional funding , and the subsequent announcement about increase support for mainstream setting , but we will need to do more . can the Prime Minister assure my constituent that we will not shy away from the whole - system reform need to finally ensure that every young person have the support that they need to thrive in school ? we will not shy away from that challenge , because it be far too important for the child , family and community involve . we will therefore not only put the necessary money in , but look at the reform that be need alongside that investment , and we will finally fix the problem — another of the problem that we have inherit from the lot opposite . final question : Sir Alec Shelbrooke . thank you , Mr Speaker . on 29 November , the House will be ask to consider the second reading of one of the most consequential piece of legislation about the country ' s make - up . I be genuinely approach it with an open mind , but have many concern . one be the short space of time for debate on that day . will the Government commit , before 29 November , to two day — 16 hour — of protect Government time for the Bill on the Floor of the House , so that we can examine and debate the Bill on Report , which be when much of what we be concerned about can be bring up ? otherwise , people like I may decline it a second reading , through fear that we may not be able to debate the issue in full . I be grateful to the right hon . member for raise this issue , which be obviously important , and it be an important vote . I know that there be strongly hold view on both side of the debate across the House . that be why there will be a free vote . every Member need to decide for themselves how they will vote . I do think that there be sufficient time allocate to it , but it be an important issue . that complete Prime Minister ' s question . [ interruption . ] point of order come after urgent question and statement . Chagos Islands ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the transfer of sovereignty of the Chagos island to Mauritius . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . follow two year of negotiation under three Prime Ministers , on 3 October the Government secure a deal that will protect the secure operation of the UK - US base on Diego Garcia well into the next century . the Government inherit a situation where that future be under threat . international court be reach judgment on the basis that Mauritius have sovereignty over the Chagos archipelago . international organisation be also take step not to undermine mauritian sovereignty claim . that be not sustainable . the base on Diego Garcia play a critical role in counter an array of threat to regional and international security . without legal certainty , the base simply can not operate effectively . continued uncertainty would be a gift to our adversary . that be why the agreement have be welcome by all part of the US system , and other critical regional security partner , include India . agree the deal now , on our term , mean that we be able to secure strong protection that will allow the base to operate as it have do . we have secure a deal that protect our national interest , respect the interest of our partner and uphold the international rule of law . there will be clear commitment in the treaty to robust security arrangement , include arrangement prevent the presence of foreign security force on the outer island , so that the base can continue to operate securely and effectively . we would not have sign off on an agreement that compromise any of our security interest , or those of our ally . the agreement will be underpin by a financial settlement that be acceptable to both side , and will underpin a strong , long - term partnership with Mauritius . that be crucial to secure the agreement . the Government will not scrimp on our national security ; however , I be sure that the House will understand that it be not normal practice for the UK to reveal the value of payment for military basis anywhere across the globe , because to do so would put at risk their future secure operation . the deal will also deliver benefit for the chagossian community , who be remove from the island in the 1960 and 1970 . I know that the whole House have already express , and will join I in again express , regret for that shameful episode . Mauritius will now be able to implement a programme of resettlement to the island , other than Diego Garcia , and we will work together to start a programme of visit for Chagossians to all the island . the UK will finance a new trust fund for Mauritius to support Chagossians , and will provide additional Government support to those live in the UK . all Chagossians will of course remain eligible for british citizenship and free to make their home in the UK . we will work with Mauritius to ensure the continue protection of the island ' unique environment , with the share objective of securing and protect one of the world ' s most important marine environment . that will include the establishment of a Mauritius marine protect area . the agreement also shut down the possibility of the indian ocean be use as a dangerous illegal migration route to the UK , with Mauritius take responsible for any future arrival . the long - term protection of the base on Diego Garcia have be the share UK and US priority throughout . this agreement secure its future . we look forward to engage with the incoming US Administration . I congratulate both President Trump and Dr Ramgoolam on their recent election victory in the US and Mauritius respectively , and we look forward to work with their government on this matter . the agreement be in all side ' share interest , and in our national security interest . Mauritius have no legal or historical claim to sovereignty over a group of island that be 1 , 300 mile away from it , and the opinion of the International Court of Justice be purely advisory . there be no legal reason why we have to do any of this . I warn the Foreign Secretary six week ago in this Chamber that it be an enormous mistake to do this , give that we have a US presidential election come up on 5 November . minister might say to I , " it ' s okay — the United States be fully in favour . " really ? I can tell the House that the incoming national security adviser Mike Waltz have form on this , go right back to when the right hon . member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) be do his good to give away the sovereignty of the Chagos island ; indeed , Mike Waltz write to Secretary of State Blinken at the time . I assure the House , have be in America last week and know the incoming US Defence Secretary very well , that there be outright hostility towards this deal . whatever be say about a lease agreement , these agreement can very easily be break , as we see with Hong Kong . Diego Garcia be describe to I by a senior trump adviser as the most important island on the planet for America , so the Minister will find outright hostility . by the way , what happen to the chagossian people be truly awful , but they be unanimous in their wish not to live under Mauritian rule ; they want to live under british rule because they trust we . there be no basis for this agreement . if the Government continue with it , they will be at conflict with a country without which we would be defenceless . I be afraid I fundamentally disagree with what the hon . Gentleman say . let I be clear : this Government inherit a situation whereby the long - term secure operation of this crucial military base — he be right on that one point — be under threat . international court be reach judgment and international organisation be take step not to undermine mauritian sovereignty . that threaten the secure and effective operation of the base . in the absence of a negotiate solution , a legally bind decision against the UK seem inevitable . that would have threaten the secure and effective operation of the base , and that be not sustainable . [ interruption . ] on the hon . Gentleman ' s comment about the incoming US Administration , we very much look forward to work with they , and I be sure that they will be brief on the full detail of the deal . I be confident that the detail of the arrangement will allay any concern , otherwise we would not have enter into any such arrangement in the first place . [ interruption . ] order . Mr Francois , I welcome you back to the Front Bench , but I do not welcome you shout from it continuously . do we understand that we need calm ? this be an important subject , so I do not want the rhetoric that be come from there . Mr Speaker , I have know the right hon . Gentleman a long time , and he know that he can come and speak to I about these matter at any point . let I be clear : we will work very closely with the incoming US Administration , and we be work closely with the current US Administration . this agreement have support across the national security apparatus of the United States . otherwise , we would never have enter into an arrangement . the previous Government recognise the threat to the long - term operation of the base , which be why they start the negotiation in the first place , but this Government do the deal . Diego Garcia be important , but it be not at risk — it be more secure as a result of the deal . what the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) be suggest be simply not the case . the hon . Gentleman mention the Chagossians . what happen to they be completely wrong and shameful — that have be agree on all side of the House . I have engage with the chagossian community on a number of occasion . he will also recognise that there be a range of view across the chagossian community , include those who support the deal . we have make sure that their interest be at the heart of the arrangement , whether in the trust fund , the unilateral arrangement , the continue commitment to UK citizenship for Chagossians , their ability to return to visit all the island or the resettlement programme that Mauritius will restart under the treaty . I be confident that this deal be the right thing for our national security , for the chagossian community and for our ally and partner . we hear representation from the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) about uphold international law . do the Minister agree that it be important that the UK fulfil its international law obligation ? do he recognise that in 2021 , the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea confirm that Mauritius have sovereignty over the Chagos island ? do he agree that , notwithstanding that , the deal secure the long - term certainty of the base on Diego Garcia ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . agree this deal now on our term mean that we have be able to secure protection that will allow the base to operate as it have do into the next century . it settle the historical sovereignty claim in a way that successfully balance our international law obligation with vital UK and US national security requirement . I welcome Dame Priti Patel to the Opposition Front Bench . thank you , Mr Speaker . the world be a more dangerous place than ever before in our lifetime and this Government have agree to give away a key strategic asset in the indian ocean , end more than 200 year of british sovereignty . it be the wrong decision , and we stand by that completely . a month have go since the Government ' s announcement , but we be still in the dark about exactly what they have agree . that be simply not acceptable . we have no treaty and vital question remain unanswered . that be unacceptable and the Minister need to put it right today . we can not afford for our military base on Diego Garcia to be compromise in this way . what safeguard will be in place to ensure that no other state can establish themselves or place their asset , in particular strategic asset , on any nearby island in the archipelago ? how do the decision affect the strategic defence review that be under way ? how much money will labour be ask british taxpayer to send to Mauritius each year under the deal , which we do not even know the detail of ? which departmental budget will that come from ? what be the total figure ? the House expect transparency , include on what taxpayer will be fund . we need to hold the Government to account on this . will the Minister please give a cast - iron guarantee that the UK will be able to unilaterally extend the agreement on the military base beyond 99 year ? that be all we have hear for now . what will be the mechanism for do that ? this be a crucial piece of scrutiny that we all need to know about , particularly as the Minister raise a point about national security and the national security apparatus agree to this arrangement . what discussion have the Foreign Secretary — I know he be not here today — personally undertake with the chagossian community , who the Minister will know be beyond distraught about the agreement ? the election in Mauritius and the United States pose further question , and it be right that we follow up on they . labour rush into the deal just before the mauritian election , even though Ministers must surely have realise that a change of Government be a strong possibility . why do they do that ? the Minister need to be clear . we want to know how the Government be go to engage with the new US Administration . the opposition oppose the Government ' s decision and we intend to hold they to account . first , I welcome the shadow Foreign Secretary to her place in this Chamber . we be in a Committee early today , but I welcome she to her place . I have always have good engagement with she on issue in the past and she be right to ask important question , but the first thing I need to do be correct the idea that we be somehow give up the base . that be exactly the opposite of what we be do . we be secure the future of the base . the base will continue to operate . it will continue to operate as it have do . the right hon . Lady ask an important question about security guarantee in relation to the outer island . there will be clear commitment in the treaty for robust security arrangement , include prevent the presence of foreign security force on the outer island . we simply would not have sign off an agreement that compromise any of our security interest or those of our ally . indeed , this have be discuss not just at a political level in the United States , but at a deep technical level . she will know from her time in government about the nature of the special relationship and the depth of that relationship . that be why we have proceed only on the basis that we be all satisfied with the arrangement . the right hon . Lady will be able to scrutinise those arrangement in due course , as will the House , Mr Speaker . the treaty will be present in the usual way after signature . it will go through the usual process . [ interruption . ] she ask when . we have just have the mauritian election . we will be engage with the new Administration there and seek to present the treaty for signature . we will then present it , in all its detail , to the House . the right hon . Lady ask about an extension period . there be a provision in the treaty for an extension period after the 99 - year period . the right hon . Lady ask about the Chagossians . again , I gently say that there be a range of view in the chagossian community . they have be express to I on many occasion , both before I come into government and since I have be in government . there be a range of view on the arrangement . we respect all the different view that be out there . we will continue to engage with the chagossian community , but I be absolutely clear that there be important provision in the deal that support the chagossian community : their ability to return to the outer island , the visit , the trust fund , the unilateral support we will continue to provide , and the fact that chagossian be welcome to come here to the UK and take up british citizenship , which be an agreement under the previous Government . Portsmouth be the home of the Royal Navy , and as the Member for Portsmouth North , I welcome the appointment of Jonathan Powell , who play an important part in negotiate this deal , as National Security Adviser . do the Minister agree that with his experience in help to negotiate the Good Friday agreement and his work on some of the world ' s most complex conflict , he be uniquely place to advise the Government on tackle the challenge ahead and to protect the advancement of UK security ? I totally agree with my hon . friend , who I know take a keen interest in the overseas territory , in particular Gibraltar . I totally agree with she about the new National Security Adviser . he be a remarkable individual with a huge track record in government of make deal and get thing do , which I know be appreciate by our friend on the opposite side of the Atlantic , too . he be somebody who take the national security of this country extraordinarily seriously , so I completely agree with her characterisation . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . many chagossian from all over the country gather at a rally yesterday , where they express their concern about the UK - Mauritius agreement . we reiterate our concern here today . the exclusion of the voice of the Chagossians be wrong . it can not be right , and surely no Member of this House could think it acceptable that the Chagossians be deny the opportunity for self - determination . will the Minister update the House to confirm the timescale by which Parliament will have oversight of the final treaty ? will he look again at inject the voice of Chagossians into the process , even at this late stage ? may I also raise the case of the Tamils strand on Diego Garcia ? we welcome recent news report that they will be airlift to the UK , but will the Minister update the House on whether that will take place and whether they will be permit a permanent right to resettlement in the UK ? I thank the hon . Gentleman , who speak for the Liberal Democrats , for his question . I know that the future of the island be hugely important to the chagossian community . I have engage with the chagossian community over many , many year and since I have be in government . we have always be clear about the importance of respect their interest . I have to say , though , that the negotiation be between the UK and Mauritius , as sovereign state , with our priority be to secure the full operation of the base on Diego Garcia . however , it be crucial that we recognise the importance of chagossian interest within this process and we have do that . I be confident that when the full deal be present to Parliament , which it will be in due course , there will be important provision in there that will reassure member of the chagossian community . as I mention , some of they have already be make public : the ability to visit , the ability to resettle on the outer island , the UK citizenship guarantee , the trust fund , and , of course , the UK ' s own support , which be crucial and come on the back of the support we have provide for some time . the hon . Gentleman ask about the Sri Lankan migrant on Diego Garcia . this Government inherit a deeply troubling situation which remain unresolved under the last Administration for year after the migrant arrive on Diego Garcia , result in mount legal challenge . we have be work at pace to find a solution that protect the welfare of individual and the integrity of british territorial border . due to the exceptional nature of the case , the Government have take the decision to relocate a small number of the migrant to the UK , but that be subject to security check . they will get a short period of permission to enter the UK , when the individual can consider their personal circumstance and next step . one of the wonderful thing about our Parliament and our democracy be that our citizen can see our proceeding , but so too can our foe . those who wish we harm and have no good intention towards we will look across at the Opposition Benches and see that there be not a credible national security team when they be ask question of this Government . I want to confine my question to a constituent of mine who have live in the UK for the last 17 year after leave the Chagos island . he be keen to reunite with his family who be now UK citizen , but housing cost be an issue . will the Minister get back to I with information on whether housing support could be part of the Government ' s overall support for the chagossian community ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . obviously , I do not know the full detail of his constituent ' s individual case , but if he write to I , I will of course come back to he in due course . can the Minister confirm or deny that the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) have any unminuted conversation with Philippe Sands KC about the Mauritian claim over the Chagos island ? the Prime Minister engage with the former Prime Minister of Mauritius and with the US Administration on these matter . we have engage with a wide range of partner in these discussion . the right hon . Gentleman be very familiar with they , as the former Foreign Secretary who be part of that process . I hope that my hon . friend the Minister will agree with I that , as we discuss the very important issue raise by the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , we must acknowledge that all right hon . and hon . member be do what be in the good interest of our country ; that right hon . and hon . member on the Opposition Benches do not have a monopoly on national security and defence ; and , indeed , that it be this Government who be reform and improve our international reputation around the world — our decision on the Chagos island , which will protect the base and deal with the other issue my hon . friend have mention , be an important part of that . absolutely . the importance of national security to this Government be at the heart of the mission set out by the Prime Minister , which have be put into practice by the Foreign Secretary , the Defence Secretary and I , along with other across the Government . we would never take decision that compromise the national security of this country , or indeed that of our ally , and that be why I be confident that this decision be the right one . let we remember that this process be begin under the last Administration , because they recognise the challenge and recognise that something need to be do about it . give that the Mauritian Government , with whom the Minister be deal , have fail and be no long in power , be this not a case of a deal with the wrong people at the wrong time for the wrong reason , which have abandon the Chagossians ? the Chagossians make it very clear throughout — the fact can not be misrepresent — that the vast majority want to go back , but they also want to remain british citizen . now that we have an incoming government in America and a new Government in Mauritius , what be the point of continue with this agreement ? we should start again , and recognise that the Chagossians do not want to be Mauritian . they want we to give they their property back , so why do we not just do that , and simplify the whole thing ? the right hon . Gentleman know that the national security interest of this country and , indeed , those of our ally transcend administration . we have just have an election as well ; his Government start this process , and we be the one who get it do . as for Mauritius , we welcome Dr Ramgoolam ' s election . I understand that he and his Government be to be swear in over the next few day , and we look forward to work with they to take forward this agreement . he be a friend of the UK and have deep professional and personal connection with it , have study and work here . I should also point out that his party , in opposition , make clear that it in no way want to contend with the operation of our base on Diego Garcia . we be look forward to engage with the new Government in the day to come . in the spirit of cross - party working , would the Minister like to take this opportunity to thank the previous Conservative Government for start negotiation on this important matter ? they realise then , even if they do not realise it now , its importance to our country ' s national security . I thank my hon . friend for his observation . the former Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) , appear to be on his way out , but he recognise , as do many other in the last Administration , that we need to secure a long - term , sure and legal footing for this base to meet the security need of ourselves and our ally . we be the Government who come in and get the deal do . do the Minister agree that the principal way to defend national security be to stand fast behind the international rule - base system , and that the principal way to do that be to adhere to the ruling of institution such as the International Court of Justice ? a great deal of concern have be express during these exchange about the sovereign democratic will of the Chagossians . what mechanism will the UK Government put in place to ensure that the House can be confident that the sovereign ambition of the Chagossians as a people will be respect in this treaty , and not simply sacrifice for convenience ? the hon . Gentleman be right about the importance of international law and adherence to it . this Government be commit to the rule of law , include international law . one reason we want to get this deal do be to put that base on a secure legal footing , along with our relationship with Mauritius and other state . there have be substantial criticism from other key partner around the world about our failure to reach a settlement , which be have an impact on our interest . as I have say repeatedly , I have engage with the Chagossians on many occasion , and we will continue to engage with they . we will continue to listen to the range of view in the community — there be a huge number — and to ensure that their interest be protect , which I be confident that the treaty do . I know that the Minister be a strong ally and supporter of all our overseas territory , as be this Government . will he take this opportunity to restate the Government ' s unconditional commitment to the right of the people of the Falkland Islands and the people of Gibraltar to self - determine , and will he also confirm that we will continue to work closely with all our overseas territory ? I thank my hon . friend for his important question . I can absolutely confirm that , not least through my own action and those of my ministerial colleague . the Minister for the Armed Forces , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , have visit the Falklands in the last week , where he reiterate our absolute and robust commitment to their self - determination and sovereignty . I be in Gibraltar make the same point just a few week ago , and I be in three of our overseas territory last week make exactly the same commitment . this Government be commit to our overseas territory . I look forward to welcome the leader to the Joint Ministerial Council next week to say that to they in person . once again the Minister have come to the Chamber and say that the last Government start these negotiation . may I remind he that it be the last government who end the negotiation , because the Foreign Secretary do not agree with the advisory legal opinion that be give ? this foreign Secretary capitulate in two day . the Minister have also say that he will not reveal the cost of the deal because the government do not release information about cost relate to overseas basis , but when , on 14 October , my hon . friend the Member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) ask the Minister for the Armed Forces a question about the total cost relate to an overseas base in Kenya , the answer reveal the cost of what the Government be give to that base . what be so different in this case ? there be a very clear difference . that be a training area , not a major base , and I will not go into the detail of the operation on that base . I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman continue to ask for detail relate to a base that be hugely important to our national security , when provide such information would put the security of the base at risk . I know that the Minister be a strong friend of our overseas territory . could he explain the importance of put the US base on a legal footing , and give we a bit more detail about how that will enable we to work with our ally in counter any potential chinese threat in the region ? my hon . friend have raise an important point , which have be raise in good faith by Conservative Members and , indeed , by other . I be absolutely confident that when the detail of the treaty be provide — along with other technical detail , at appropriate level — it will make clear our commitment to robust security arrangement to deal with the challenge to which he have refer , and that will include prevent the presence of foreign security force on the outer island . let I reiterate that we simply would not have countenance a deal that would in any way put our national security or that of our ally at risk . quite simply , do we have the unilateral right to extend — yes or no ? I have make it very clear that we have the right to extend the treaty beyond the 99 - year period , and the right hon . Gentleman will be able to scrutinise the detail of that in due course . it be difficult to fathom concern raise by the Opposition about the consequence of governmental transition , as it be the former conservative Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) , who say , when lead negotiation with Mauritius : " our primary objective be to ensure the continue effective operation of our defence facility on Diego Garcia . " — [ Official Report , 13 June 2023 ; Vol . 734 , c . 151 . ] do my hon . friend agree that this Government have now deliver that , and should the Conservatives not be welcome the agreement ? let I first thank my hon . friend for his service for our country and its national security — and , indeed , thank all new member who have serve in our armed force . I completely agree with his comment : we be indeed protect our national security and put matter on a secure footing Alexander Downer , a former australian Foreign Minister , a former high commissioner to this country , a former United Nations special adviser on Cyprus and a good friend of this country , say that the surrender of the Chagos Islands be " symptomatic of a country that no long have geopolitical perspective . " what be the Minister ' s response to Mr Downer ' s remark , and do he agree with his comment that the last Labour Government be prepared to capitulate on the two cypriot sovereign base area , Dhekelia and Akrotiri ? who would have think it ? be not the Chagos surrender just same old labour — strong on post - colonial guilt and weak on safety , security and stability ? I do not recognise those comment in the slight , not least because we have repeatedly make clear our commitment to our overseas territory : to the Falklands , to Gibraltar , and to the sovereign base area in Cyprus , which , as the right hon . Gentleman well know , be protect under the 1960 treaty . I have make statement to that effect . we be clear about our support for those territory and their importance to we . this be not about hand something over ; it be about Diego Garcia be on a secure footing , with our military base and our presence secure for the future . the expulsion of the chagossian people from both Diego Garcia and the archipelago be an act of wanton brutality by the british force at the time . the Chagos Islanders have fight a doughty battle for more than 40 year in court all over the world , at the United Nations and in court in this country , and they have demand their right to return . all along , they have be determine to achieve that right , and they deserve our congratulation on that . their right to return must be recognise , and international judicial system have all show that the Chagos Islands should clearly be part of Mauritius . therefore , return the island to Mauritius be obviously the correct thing to do . can the Minister assure I that the Chagossians ' right to return to the archipelago , Peros Banhos and the other island will be accompany by the right to have a presence on , or to visit , Diego Garcia itself ? it be perfectly possible that such thing could be arrange . I ask he not to send we down the road of rebuild the british empire , which be apparently what the Conservative party and Reform want to do . we do not live in an age of empire ; we live in an age of the right of people to live their life accord to international law , and that be what be on offer . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . I have be very clear that the way the UK remove the Chagossians from the archipelago in the 1960 and ' 70 be wrong . I know that there be agreement across the House on this issue , and we be commit to build a relationship with the community that be build on respect and on acknowledgement of the wrong of the past . the right hon . Gentleman ask a very technical question . he be absolutely right to say that Chagossians will have the right to visit all the island . give the sensitivity of the facility on Diego Garcia , he will understand that some procedure be in place around that , but it will be possible to have visit . we hope to be able to announce the scheme for that in due course next year . most importantly , the treaty allow for resettlement of the outer island by Mauritius . far to the question from my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) about incoming administration in Mauritius and the United States , our ally in the United States will clearly have serious concern about what the proposal be . will the Minister set out when the treaty be expect to be sign and , indeed , whether this House will get a say over whether that treaty should be sign before it be cast into law ? as someone who have be in the House a long time , the hon . Gentleman will be aware of the procedure for deal with treaty in this place . the treaty will be sign , it will come through this place , and it will have the appropriate scrutiny — it be only right that it do and that question be ask . I be absolutely confident that when the full detail of the treaty be provide to the incoming Administration in the United States , they will be absolutely confident that it meet US and UK national security interest and be in the mutual benefit of all party involve . if the incoming President Trump Administration confirm that they be against this dreadful deal , will the Government stop negotiation and apologise to this House , or will they try to force it upon our most important international strategic partner ? the hon . Gentleman will surely know that the convention be that we deal with one Administration at a time . we have very positive and warm engagement with President - elect Trump and Vice President - elect Vance ' s incoming Administration . we look forward to discuss these matter with they , and we will engage with the United States in the usual way . we be absolutely clear that this treaty be in the UK - US national security interest . it meet the security concern , and it put the base on a secure footing into the next century . can the Minister explain why the Government rush into this deal so that it could be complete just before the mauritian election ? be it proper for the British Government to give diplomatic kudo to a party in a foreign election ? I completely reject those comment . give that the previous Government spend over two year engage in multiple round of negotiation in prepare the basis on which we get a deal do , the idea that we rush into something be simply not true . it be not do in a rush . we be get the job do , and keep our national security and our interest secure . the Minister ' s answer have not be what we have seek from he , so I will ask my question in a different way . do he acknowledge the feeling of the Chagossians , who have peacefully protest about have their sovereignty strip from they behind their back ? do he recognise that the deal strike with China over Hong Kong have not be respect , and that our withdrawal have leave the people of Hong Kong say that they have be abandon ? that should serve as a warning . will the Minister rethink the decision and respect the wish of the Chagossians ? the hon . Gentleman know that I have a great deal of respect for he on these matter , and for his care for people and human right around the world . I be very clear that the treaty and the deal respect the right and interest of the Chagossians , and we have seek to put they at the heart of the arrangement . I have engage with many chagossian , who have a range of view , as we have hear today . it be absolutely clear to I that we need to put their interest at the heart of the deal , and we have do that . I be confident that when they look at the detail , they will see very positive outcome for they and their community , and we will provide that detail to the House in due course . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . point of order come after urgent question and statement , unless they be directly relevant to the UQ or statement . be the point of order directly relevant to the urgent question ? yes , very much so . go ahead . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . obviously , the issue of cost be of huge importance , because it be public money , and the opposition think that the public should know about the cost involve in this agreement . the Minister say to my hon . friend the Member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) that the Government do not give out the figure because they do not state the cost of overseas basis . my hon . Friend point out that the Minister for the Armed Forces , the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , have clearly state the cost of the base in Kenya . the Foreign Office Minister say that that be only a training base , but I can confirm to the House that back in November 2022 , James Heappey , the then Minister for the Armed Forces , state the cost of run the base in Akrotiri to the then Member for East Lothian , and that be not a training base at all . Mr Heappey give three year ' worth of figure . such a request be therefore clearly not unprecedented and it be an extremely important point of public interest , because this be public money . how can we hold the Government to account if they will not tell we what they will pay to rent back the base that we already own ? that be not a matter for the Chair , but the hon . Member have put his robust point of order on the record . future of the Post Office with permission , I will make a statement on the Post Office . frankly , the Government inherit a Post Office that be simply not fit for purpose , follow disinterest from the previous Government , a toxic culture in head office and year of under - investment . our top priority remain deliver redress to those affect by the Horizon scandal . we have already take significant step to increase the payment of redress , which have nearly double under this government . let I be clear with the House , though . there be still complex case to resolve , and we have identify gap in the compensation process , but we be begin to make progress . as of 31 October , £ 438 million have be pay to over 3 , 100 claimant . in July , we launch the new Horizon conviction redress scheme for victim whose conviction be overturn by legislation , and we have announce our intention to set up an appeal system for the much - criticise Horizon shortfall scheme . we be clear in our manifesto that we will work to strengthen the post office network in consultation with postmaster , trade union and customer . the post office network provide critical service that be value by community across the whole of the UK . their essential service go beyond post ; they provide access to cash , banking and other financial service too . this Government recognise that access to cash remain particularly important to million of people across the UK . through its network of 11 , 500 branch across the UK , the Post Office continue to provide vital banking service to community and business alike through the banking framework , and to protect access to cash . I know how highly this House rightly value postmaster and what they provide day in and day out to the community they serve , but we have to recognise that the Post Office be far from perfect . we have see this from the evidence give at the inquiry . it be clear that there need to be a significant cultural change at the Post Office to ensure that it genuinely prioritise the need of postmaster and deliver customer ' need far into the future . it be also clear that more need to be do to rebuild trust within the business and with the public who depend on its service . it be also no secret that the business be face commercial challenge . nearly half of its branch be not profitable or only make a small profit from the Post Office business , postmaster pay have not increase materially for a decade , and the company have a high cost base and need to transform its it system . early today , Nigel Railton set out his ambition for the future of the Post Office , in his role as its chair . postmaster have to be place front and centre of the Post Office , and we agree that the culture of Post Office headquarters , in particular , need to change fundamentally to deliver that . as part of this , the Post Office plan to reduce central cost and look seriously at other way to deliver efficiency , which should enable real - term increase in postmaster pay . Mr Railton ' s ambition be a new deal for postmaster that put postmaster at the heart of the Post Office . there will be strong postmaster engagement in the running of the business . as part of this , a new postmaster panel will be establish to enable current postmaster to work with the company to improve the support and training provide to postmaster . the Post Office will also set up a new consultative council that will work with the Post Office ' s senior management on how these new plan be take forward , to provide genuine challenge and maintain focus on the need of postmaster . Mr Railton ' s plan seek to make change to the business , with the ambition of significantly increase postmaster remuneration , and it set out an intention to transform the service and support that postmaster receive from the Post Office . no decision to close any or all of the remain directly manage branch have be take . the Post Office will continue to deliver on the 11 , 500 minimum branch requirement set by Government . we have make it clear to the Post Office that we expect it to consult postmaster , trade union and other stakeholder before any individual decision be take . aspect of the plan be also subject to Government funding and the outcome of the upcoming spending review . lastly , we have already set out our plan to publish a Green Paper to consult the public on the long - term future of the Post Office , not least on how it should be govern after a decade of decline . do nothing at the Post Office be simply not an option . there be more work to be do , but there have to be change . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his statement and for share an advance copy with I . let I add from the Opposition Benches that the victim of the Horizon IT scandal deserve full redress and I welcome the effort to hasten the roll - out of the payment be make , build on the work of my excellent hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) . I note that we be promise an update on that particular matter by the Government in mid - November . I be not sure whether that be what the Minister be do today , but please can he undertake to give this House regular update on such an important matter ? we also welcome the increase focus on postmaster . that be absolutely right . it be , however , with regret that we learn today that the Post Office feel it have no choice but to begin the process of make radical decision to reduce cost . how have this come about ? in common with many other town centre enterprise , the Post Office ' s cost be skyrocket . business rate be go up , national insurance contribution be go up , the threshold at which national insurance become payable be go down and its obligation around the minimum wage be go up . there be a direct line of sight connect today ' s announcement and the Chancellor ' s Budget , yet the Minister do not mention that once in his statement . the chairman of the Post Office himself say in his speech this morning that those change have make business more difficult for Post Office branch . that be something for Labour Members to consider . can the Minister guarantee that the Budget have have no impact on this decision ? alternatively , since that be not the case , do he acknowledge that this be the inevitable consequence of the burden that his Government be place on business , large and small ? will the Minister tell we when he first know of the plan set out by the Post Office today and whether he approve the chairman ' s statement ? the Post Office chairman have make it clear that these plan be subject to Government funding , so can the Minister make a commitment from the Dispatch Box today that that funding will indeed be come , and that we will not face six month of uncertainty while those negotiation continue ? do his government do an impact assessment to determine the cost of the Budget measure on the Post Office and other local service ? if they do that impact assessment , will they publish it , and if not , why not ? be they worried that the Post Office would not like the result ? the measure in the Government ' s Budget be clearly , as we see here today , a job tax . after today ' s impact on 100 high street , will the Minister go back to the Chancellor and ask she to nix the NICs increase ? this news be yet another pasting in the onslaught on many rural community . thousand of our constituent in community up and down the country will be wait in trepidation today to discover the fate of their local post office . those who rely on their post office be often the most vulnerable in society . what guarantee can the Minister provide that , unlike the family farm tax , this be not a further assault on rural community from this Government ? it be under the last government that we enter into a new partnership with the Post Office to help million of people to access Government service and support online , enable they to visit a post office to confirm their identity in person . that guarantee to those without the internet that they would not be leave behind . can the Minister confirm that there will be no withdrawal of Government service currently provide through the Post Office ? for many , post office also provide valuable , vital banking service . I be proud of the role the last Government undertake to launch banking hub across the country . it be a privilege to see the focus of my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , work in the Treasury Committee to drive forward that lifeline for community from Saltash to Kilkeel . it be encouraging to read in Nigel Railton ' s speech this morning that the Post Office have commit to the significant increase in the number of banking hub to 500 by 2030 . we welcome that . however , the devil be in the detail , especially where this Government be concerned . have the Minister engage with colleague in the Treasury to discuss the impact of today ' s news on the banking framework negotiation , which be essential to underwrite that roll - out of banking hub ? what support will the Government offer to secure the future of more banking hub in area that need they most ? despite the fact that no one around the Cabinet table have ever set up a business , I would have think it would be obvious that place unaccountable burden on business would push up the cost of wage and employment , and that if they introduce a job tax , that would be the consequence . however , that be exactly what this Government have try to do , and here we be , no less than two week later , with our high street face the devastating consequence of the Government ' s decision . I be grateful to the shadow Minister for some of his comment . I be happy to confirm that I will keep the House update on work around the future of the Post Office , as well as , even more importantly , on the work to ensure that all those sub - postmaster who be the victim of the Horizon scandal get full and fair redress . on that point , I should say at the outset that I have meet a series of sub - postmaster who be victim of the Horizon scandal , and each of they certainly leave their mark on I . their story will stay with I for a very long time , and in that regard I be sure that I speak for the whole House , give the conversation that member have have with individual sub - postmaster in their constituency . I be therefore acutely aware of my responsibility , and the Government ' s responsibility more generally , to follow through on our commitment to speed up redress . the number of case that have be settle with full and fair compensation have nearly double in the four month since we come into government , compare with the four month before . we have take a series of additional step to try to make it easy for sub - postmaster who be the victim of the scandal to get full and fair redress quickly , not least by fix some payment for those apply under the Horizon shortfall scheme and similarly fix some payment under the Horizon conviction redress scheme , which we launch back in July . the hon . Gentleman ' s wide point about the Budget ' s impact on the high street sound like he be replay his line from last week ' s Budget debate . I recall he be the right - hand man to Kwasi Kwarteng , who help to do huge damage to business up and down the country and help to drive interest rate to a 16 - year high , so I gently suggest that he have more work to do to be convincing on his support for business . I hope the hon . Gentleman be willing to take responsibility for another impact , because more than 9 , 500 bank branch have close over the past 14 year , which have have a considerable impact on the future of the high street . with Nigel Railton , our plan be to improve banking service and to roll out banking hub , which I hope will make a significant difference . on the Budget more generally , give the financial mess in which the Conservatives leave the country and give the lack of money set aside for Horizon compensation , I think the hon . Gentleman should be a little more honest to this House about his responsibility for the scale of the mess we inherit . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . today be the last day of the Horizon inquiry . I look forward to work with you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and with colleague across the House to explore appropriate sanction for those who clearly mislead we as the scandal unfold . I look forward to see the Minister and the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Swindon South ( Heidi Alexander ) , before the Committee on Tuesday 19 November to explore how redress payment can be pay fast . it be surely right that we aim to grow the top line of Post Office business , which have to mean that high street bank contribute more to the core business . what step can the Minister take to ensure this happen ? I welcome that the Committee ' s first act be to look at redress for sub - postmaster who be victim of the Horizon scandal . I will happily appear next week to talk through where we be on compensation payment . my right hon . friend be right to say that one of the bright spot in the Post Office ' s future lie in banking , and the continue commitment of its sub - postmaster be the bright spot . with the right support from the financial service industry , there be clearly more that the Post Office could offer on the high street through banking hub and the post office network . we will work with the Post Office , and the bank have a particular responsibility , give how many bank branch have close , to work constructively with the Post Office to improve the banking offer on the high street . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I also thank the Minister for his statement . Post Office branch across the UK be a vital part of our local community and high street , with million of people depend on they , especially in more rural area of the south - west , such as my constituency . the news that 115 branch and around 1 , 000 job could be at risk be extremely concerning . I be pleased to hear the Minister ' s reassurance , but the organisation need reform . local community can not be leave without the essential service that post office offer , especially as we see high street bank disappear . the Government must guarantee that local service and post office job be protect . we also urge the Government to take action to set the Post Office on a sustainable footing for the long term . the Liberal Democrats have put forward a proposal for mutualisation of the Post Office , which would give sub - postmaster more independence and control . we should encourage post office to play a more active role in our local economy , act , as member have mention previously , as community banking hub and Government service hub . these post office be often the only non - digital place where a local community can access Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency service and passport service , or to prepay for their utility bill . these post office be essential for some of our more elderly and vulnerable resident . the Government have announce that they be look into broad reform of the organisation , and they will produce a Green Paper next year . will the Minister assure the House that these proposal , include mutualisation and strengthen the service provide by post office , will be properly consider so that we can ensure post office be fit for the future ? Madam Deputy Speaker , I have a final quick point — order . you only have two minute . I underline that no decision have be take on any or all the directly manage branch . however , these branch cost significantly more to run than those run by franchisee . we have make it clear to the Post Office that , as it review these cost , it must talk to sub - postmaster , trade union and other stakeholder . the more general point about ensure that people in rural area can access a post office branch be well understand within the Department and across Government . there have be no decision to change the commitment to run 11 , 500 branch or to change the level of government funding provide to run the network across the country . I agree with the hon . member for Chippenham ( Sarah Gibson ) that the Post Office can do more . that be one reason why we commit in opposition — and be deliver in government — to roll out more banking hub , which will be run by the Post Office . she make an interesting point about digital exclusion and the Post Office ' s potential to do more in that regard . lastly , give my background , I be interested in mutualisation , but I hope the hon . Lady will recognise that there be significant challenge in determine whether mutualisation be a realistic possibility at this stage . one reason for our commitment to publish a Green Paper next year be to explore these issue in more detail . my hon . friend be insistent that the Post Office continue to play a vital role in our community . give that the Horizon inquiry finish today , will he say more about how sub - postmaster will now be consider by the Post Office in a way that , frankly , they have never be before ? each time I have meet a sub - postmaster who be a victim of the Horizon scandal , I have be shock by the way the Post Office treat they . I be sure other member share that sentiment , have speak to sub - postmaster in their constituency who be also victim of the scandal . the Post Office ' s culture must change fundamentally . I welcome Mr Railton ' s plan to set up both a consultative council , to work with sub - postmaster on the Post Office ' s commercial future , and a postmaster panel to provide more training and support for postmaster . one of the challenge for the Government , which be why we have commit to publish a Green Paper , be to think through how we lock in that culture change . my hon . friend , and indeed other member , will be very welcome to engage with we during that Green Paper process . there be a massive difference between Crown post office and sub - post office . crown post office be more expensive to run : they offer a big range of service and they be dedicate to the work of the Post Office . give those cost , the Minister will know that several Crown post office in his constituency and in mine be under threat . will he give a commitment to the House that none of those Crown post office will be downgrade before the Green Paper be issue and the future of the Post Office be decide ? as I have already make clear , no decision have be take to close any directly manage branch . there be a need to look at the cost that the Post Office incur go forward , in order to make it fit for purpose over the next five to 10 year . as a result , we will need to look at the future of directly manage branch , but only once Post office manager have talk seriously with sub - postmaster , trade union and other key stakeholder , as we have make clear to the Post Office . that be the right way to proceed . we have also make clear we will not change the commitment to provide 11 , 500 branch , which will ensure everybody continue to have good access to a Post Office branch in every part of the country . during the last Parliament , some time before the Liberal Democrats take up the issue , I meet with my constituent , Richard Trinder , the sub - postmaster at Handsworth post office , and , online , with some of his colleague from across the country . they raise the issue of mutualisation . I bring that up with the previous Post Office Minister , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , who give the matter positive consideration and say he would support it . I note that my hon . friend the Minister have say exactly the same today . I know it will be some time before we get the fundamental of the Post Office sort out , but will the Minister say how he will engage with sub - postmaster ? they be key to the issue . we need to work and look with they at how mutualisation might work , and what sort of structure they would like to see create that can make it work positively , go forward . I welcome my hon . friend ' s question . we need to take a number of step in order to see mutualisation as a realistic way forward . in the first instance , there have to be a sustained change in Post Office culture about how sub - postmaster be treat . on that , the establishment of the postmaster panel and a consultative council , announce by the chair of the Post Office , Nigel Railton , be significant step forward . I hope the sub - postmaster in my hon . friend ' s constituency will genuinely engage with those body . I do not think we can impose mutualisation ; it must come up from the grassroot , with the Government be willing to look at that option . the change that Post Office senior management be look to make be a good first step in their own right , and have the potential for future positive governance change in the long run . I genuinely encourage my hon . friend and his sub - postmaster to engage in the Green Paper process . one of the post office on today ' s list of potential closure be in Grimsby , where many of my constituent work and run business . the Minister rightly say that Crown post office be more costly . I can assure he that the one in Grimsby , for example , could easily operate in much small premise or in premise share with other business in the commercial centre of the town . will the Minister give an assurance that he will ensure the Post Office look at operate out of alternative premise , and cut its cost before consider closure ? we have make it clear to the Post Office that it have to talk to sub - postmaster , stakeholder and the trade union about the cost associate with directly manage branch . we be commit to the requirement to ensure there be easy access to a post office branch for every community , up and down the country . we want the Post Office to continue to talk to people who want to run post office in their community , and we continue to encourage it to do so . I be a veteran of virtually every debate , urgent question and statement on this issue over more year than I dare to mention . I welcome the statement by my hon . friend the Minister , but it be disappointing to read some of the comment about the process for sub - postmaster to apply for compensation . we hear about people who have be repeatedly ask for the same information time and again . they be be ask to provide information that be 20 year old and to respond to question they can not answer because the Post Office have confiscate the document and not return they . the solicitor who represent those postmaster say that the system be design to wear they down . I gently ask the Minister , what we can do to improve this process for the postmaster ? my hon . friend make a strong and compelling case . the criticism that he have just articulate about the compensation process be one I have hear directly from victim of the Horizon scandal and their legal representative . we be look at a series of further thing that we can do to improve the compensation process . we have move more staff in the group litigation order compensation process to help speed up redress for sub - postmaster in that scheme , whose remain case be more complex . perfectly reasonably , people want to see they compensate as quickly as possible . I be optimistic that for claim that come into the GLO scheme before Christmas , we will see significant redress deliver to victim of the Horizon scandal by March . if sub - post office be so much cheap to run than Crown post office , the Minister may wish to reflect on the fact that that be probably down to the level of remuneration for sub - postmaster . notwithstanding what he say about no decision have be make , it would be reassuring to those who rely on post office and the staff who work in they , include in Kirkwall , which be on the list of those to be consider for closure , if they could be tell when that decision will be make . when the Minister talk about consult postmaster , trade union and other stakeholder , be we safe to assume that " other stakeholder " include community and customer ? they will be look for the full range of service and adequate physical space in which to access they . the right hon . Gentleman be right to bring the House ' s attention back to the issue of sub - postmaster pay : there have be no material improvement in sub - postmaster pay for over a decade . if we be to see sub - postmaster genuinely treat well in the future , address the issue of pay be fundamental . I welcome the focus on that by the chair of the Post Office , Nigel Railton , in his speech today . I gently re - emphasise to the right hon . Gentleman that we remain committed to the Government requirement to deliver 11 , 500 branch , to ensure that every community have easy access to the post office branch network . community will absolutely need to be involve in any decision about individual branch . Acton lose its well used and still much miss post office in 2018 , but it be home to the first ever urban Post Office - run banking hub . the trend be to co - locate service , but that seem to have draw a blank — there be too many onerous part to it , and business do not want it . so could the Minister help I investigate way to merge the two service ? the banking hub be the natural home for post office service , as it be own by the Post Office , and , as a neighbouring mp , he could visit to cut the ribbon when we finally get postal service back to Acton , where they belong . my hon . friend have always be a great champion of her constituency . I have visit the banking hub in Acton in a previous life , before the general election . I would be very happy to revisit the post office . I hear her message about co - location and I assure she I will look at that . I be sure she will continue to press I on the future of banking hub in Acton . I welcome the Minister ' s statement and his assertion that the Post Office be a central part of our community . the previous administration of the Post Office seem to glory in sell off Crown post office and reduce the service for all of we . early , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) say that there should be no more closure of Crown post office . can the Minister commit to that , and , in the consultation process , consider reopen post office or extend the Crown post office network to ensure that a variety of service be on offer , and that the post office be central to the life of our high street and community all over the country and can play a huge role in the regeneration of our town centre ? my right hon . friend be right to stress the importance of post office branch to the future of all our community . in that regard , work be require from trade union and other on highlight the importance of banking service . I wish that work have be give more attention by my predecessor . [ interruption . ] with due respect to those on the Opposition Front Bench who be heckle I , it have fall to this Government to roll out banking hub in a more significant way . on my right hon . friend ' s more general point about directly manage branch , as I have already say to the House , give that they cost significantly more to run , it be right that we look at those cost . no individual decision have be take as yet , and we have make it clear to the Post Office that it need to consult directly with sub - postmaster , trade union and other stakeholder . the Post Office Horizon scandal be probably one of the great miscarriage of justice in our history , and I congratulate the Minister on the progress that the Government have make in speed up compensation payment to postmaster . there be also a huge failure of it — a failure in IT procurement , IT deployment and IT management — which have undermine public confidence in technology . what step have the Minister take to ensure that Fujitsu be hold accountable , that the lesson be learn , and that , in the future , post office have the fantastic technology that they need to support they in their important community role ? my hon . friend make a crucial point about the future of the Post Office — we must get right the technology that sub - postmaster be expect to use . there be serious problem and delay in the previous Government ' s effort to find a replacement for Horizon . we have have to bring in additional consultant to work with the Post Office to bring forward a proper replacement . more generally , on Fujitsu , we expect the Horizon inquiry to bring forward a view about the accountability of particular organisation and particular individual . we will look at what Sir Wyn ' s inquiry recommend and then make appropriate decision on those issue . we be deeply alarmed that Kendal Crown post office appear on this list . three year ago , the previous Government and the previous administration of Post Office Ltd also threaten Kendal Crown post office with closure . we win our campaign to save it , in part because Post Office Ltd concede that there be not enough space in WH Smith in Kendal to accommodate the post office . that have not change . Royal Mail may also lose its kendal sort office as a consequence of the closure . that have not change either . what have change be that two more high street bank — Halifax and Lloyds — have desert kendal town centre on the basis , they claim , that the post office down the road will be able to take up the slack . be this not the time to give guarantee to post office such as the one in Kendal that they will remain a Crown office for the foreseeable future to support our town and our economy ? I say gently to the hon . member that I absolutely recognise his point about the role that bank branch play in community such as Kendal and about their retreat from our high street . the bank have a responsibility to work with the Post Office to make sure that community can have access to the banking service that they need , particularly those offer through the post office . that be one reason why we want to significantly expand the number of banking hub . on the hon . member ' s point about the post office in Kendal , I simply underline the fact that no decision have be make about Kendal or any other individual directly manage branch . we expect the Post Office to talk to sub - postmaster , trade union and other stakeholder about this process , but genuinely I say to he that there be significant additional cost associate with the directly manage branch and it be right that the Post Office look at that as well . when the Minister say that the Post Office be not fit for purpose , it be hard not to agree with he , give the elite contempt that the organisation have show for the people who work for it . it drip with contempt for ordinary folk . when the Minister meet the new management , will he bear in mind the experience of my constituent ? I have 23 former mining village , with chronic poverty throughout . one after another , the bank have withdraw from every village and small township in our area . we have 20 , 000 people without a car and — quite honestly — a crap bus service . many do not have access to the internet either . the only lifeline that they have be the post office . will the Minister ensure that there be no further closure from those village — a withdrawal by the market or by the state — which work so hard to create the wealth of our country in the last century ? I be acutely aware of the responsibility of Government to ensure that every community have access to a post office branch . that be why we be continue to provide a £ 50 million subsidy to the Post Office to maintain the network go forward . it be also why we think the Post Office should do more when it come to provide banking service — it be one of the potential area for it to grow its business . in that regard , give the retreat of bank branch from constituency such as my hon . friend ' s , we absolutely think that the bank should work directly with the Post Office to improve the banking offer in all our community . it would help if the Minister occasionally look at the Chair and keep his answer short so that we can get everybody in . in my constituency , there be real concern about the loss of more rural and village branch . can the Minister give we some assurance that he will do everything that he can to preserve this vital link and that he will look at how the Post Office can operate more like a commercial franchise operator , which would support and help postmaster to really maximise their business ? absolutely . I recognise that the Post Office have a particularly responsibility to work with sub - postmaster who provide a post office service in rural community . it be one reason why we remain committed to the requirement to provide 11 , 500 branch across the UK . one key change that we need to see in the Post Office , and one reason why I welcome the commitment in Sir Nigel Railton ' s plan today , be the commitment to a consultative council . that will , I hope , help to ensure that the voice of rural sub - postmaster and sub - postmaster more generally be hear much more directly by senior management . I also welcome the idea of a postmaster panel to provide support to sub - postmaster in general , but , in the context of this question , to rural sub - postmaster in particular . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , his action on the Horizon scandal , and his commitment to the service that the Post Office provide . I also note that the list of 115 propose closure contain Cosham in my constituency . it be shocking that the opposition blame this Government for this , give that , under the Conservatives , closure after closure of high street bank in Cosham make post office service even more vital to our community . how will the Minister ensure that postmaster , employee and community voice be hear in the discussion about retain this vital branch in Cosham , and about the future development and work together of our high street , bank and post office ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question . I hope I can reassure she that when we publish our Green Paper on the future of the Post Office next year , I will welcome the voice of sub - postmaster from Portsmouth , as well as from the rest of the country ; that will help we to think through long - term question around the future of the Post Office . as I have already underline a number of time , no specific decision have be take about individual directly manage branch . we expect the Post Office to not only look at all its cost go forward but , crucially , consult with sub - postmaster , trade union and other stakeholder . People in my constituency and across Scotland want a post office network from which they can access essential government service , such as their pension . we frequently hear in this House about the ever - increase number of bank closure . the minimum of 11 , 500 post office branch be welcome , but I have hear little from the UK Government about individual branch , other than that there will be consultation . we need more than that ; we need guarantee . People across Scotland really want to know what the Government will do to step up . More than 100 closure be announce today . do the Government play any role at all in that ? if not , why be those closure not delay until after the Green Paper be publish ? perhaps the hon . Gentleman do not fully hear my answer . there have be no decision to close any individual directly manage branch . as I have say , significant additional cost come with run a directly manage branch , as oppose to a post office franchise , and it be right that the Post Office look at those cost . to make a similar point to that raise by the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , we recognise the responsibility to provide Post Office service to every community in Scotland and across the United Kingdom , so that community can have easy access to post office . that have not change and will not change . I be very pleased to hear my hon . friend ' s statement , and to have this discussion about the important role that post office play in the operation of banking hub . our banking hub in Ware be incredibly important to our community , and I thank he for visit its temporary site early this year . will he commit to return there with I when it find its permanent site , hopefully in the very near future ? I can assure my hon . friend that I will happily come back to visit his constituency when the banking hub there have a permanent home . I would be delighted to . post office offer more than the sum of their part , and their loss be feel keenly when branch close , as two have do recently in my constituency , on High Lane and on the Fiveways Parade in Hazel Grove . in both case , the postmaster feel no long able to continue in the role , at least in part for commercial reason . will the Government take this opportunity to look at strengthen the role of post office , so that they offer even more local service , and at open up new funding opportunity to keep these vital service in our community ? the situation the hon . Lady describe be exactly why I welcome the fact that the new management of the Post Office be put the issue of sub - postmaster pay front and centre in its thinking . if we do not do something to shift sub - postmaster pay upwards , we will see more sub - postmaster make the sort of decision that she describe . we must do something urgently to address this . the Post Office management and chair be rightly home in on that question as fundamental to the future of the Post Office . as I have underline , I think there be more that the Post Office could do on banking ; that view be certainly share by the Post Office senior management team , and we be work directly with they to see what more can be do . if everybody give short question — and short answer , Minister — we can get this do in the next 15 minute . my constituent in Crowthorne be rightly proud of our high street , but as there be no direct access on that street to banking service or a post office branch , they struggle to access vital service . do the Minister agree that today ' s announcement highlight the need to roll out more banking hub , while set out a viable future for post office , so that community such as mine can access the vital service they need ? I agree with my hon . friend that we need to see a fast roll - out of banking hub . give that the conservative party sit back and do nothing while 9 , 500 bank branch close , the urgency of the task of roll out banking branch and improve the banking offer through the post office be acutely feel by my Department . the post office in Bexhill provide vital banking and other service to my constituent , and I have already be contact by people concerned about its possible closure . can the Minister ensure that the consultation he keep mention include local community and service user , and can he guarantee , give Labour ' s manifesto commitment to strengthen the post office network , that nothing will be do to reduce the scope of post office service available to my constituent , or the time when they be available ? I can be absolutely clear with the hon . gentleman : I say no decision have be make on any individual directly manage branch , and that be absolutely true . we be also clear that sub - postmaster , trade union and community will have to be consult about the future of directly manage branch . we want an improvement in the service that post office can provide ; that be one of the reason for our work on banking service with the Post Office go forward . I recently meet two constituent who be yet to receive compensation as former sub - postmaster . I feel their pain , and I feel that their pain be be compound by the long - draw - out process , drive mental anguish for they on a daily basis . can my hon . friend update the House on when the appeal system for the Horizon shortfall scheme will be up and run ? we expect the appeal process that we announce for the Horizon shortfall scheme to be up and run soon — realistically , probably early in the new year . I say gently to my hon . friend that I share his deep concern that there be so many sub - postmaster who be victim of the Horizon scandal , and who be still to receive their compensation and full and fair redress . we have see an increase in the number get redress , but there be more work to do ; it be a challenge that we be very much focused on as a Government . street in my constituency will lose its main high street post office in early 2025 . there be a new listing for another post office , but question around its viability will now obviously arise . can the Minister tell I how he will ensure that the Post Office be secure on a long - term , sustainable footing , to reassure my community and rural community like they that the vital high street service that they rely on will be retain ? there be a number of element to secure the future of the Post Office . first , we must look at its commercial operation , which be why an improvement in the banking offer available through post office , and the commitment of the bank to work with the Post Office to roll out banking hub , be so important . secondly , we must look at how we can increase sub - postmaster pay , so that more people be willing to come forward to run post office branch . thirdly , we must look at the Post Office ' s cost , and how they can be well manage . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . in a change context in which banking hub be be look at for place across the country , do he agree that we need to pursue they very aggressively and assertively , and also look at share provision with local council — for instance , at use library and other centre , so that we can spread the cost and keep these essential service open , where possible ? I be absolutely open to any idea that will help to speed up the roll - out of banking hub ; I recognise that they be crucial for community up and down the UK . if he have particular idea , I be very happy to talk to he about they separately . I be very pleased that Horning post office in my constituency will reopen later this month , follow month of hard work by the local community . that show that there be an important future for our local post office in rural North Norfolk , and that future include support bank hub in our market town . the people of Holt be look forward eagerly to the opening of their hub soon . can the Minister tell I his personal vision for the future of the Post Office , and do that include support vital local service in our rural area ? I be delighted to hear the news about a post office branch opening in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency ; that will be of great comfort to his constituent . as I set out , one way in which we can improve the service available to all community through the post office be well provision of banking service . we be actively work with the Post Office on that . the roll - out of banking hub will also help to improve the quality of the service that post office can provide for all our community . I welcome the assurance that the Minister have give . the Post Office will go about make the 115 potential branch closure and 1 , 000 job loss either by close the Crown post office network , or by franchise it off . in Corby , New Post Office Square open up when the town centre , which have a post office , be rejuvenate . there be now no post office in New Post Office Square , because it be franchise into the back of a shop , and that shop decide not to extend the franchise . we need an assurance from the Post Office that it will not turn around and take the number away from we . do the Minister agree that the Post Office must take into account the Government ' s priority for high street , and ensure that whatever it be plan fit around the Green Paper propose for next year ? I hope my hon . friend will forgive I , but I be not aware of the exact circumstance in his constituency , though I be happy to meet he to talk through they , if he think that would be useful . as I hope I have set out , we remain absolutely committed to ensure that every community have good access to a post office branch and all the service that it provide . that be as true for his constituent as it be for the constituent of member across the House . oswestry in my constituency be the second large town in Shropshire and serve a vast rural area stretch into mid - Wales and across north Shropshire . it be digitally exclude because it often do not have adequate mobile signal or broadband service , so the full range of Crown post office service be absolutely essential there . will the Minister assure I that the full range of Crown post office service will remain in Oswestry , and that the Post Office will take into account the importance of retain vital service in rural area , which be be desert by commercial organisation such as bank ? I be absolutely clear that the Government recognise and accept our continue responsibility to ensure that post office service be available to every community across the UK , and that there be easy access to a post office branch in rural and urban area alike ; we remain absolutely committed to that . as I say , no decision have be take to close any individual directly manage branch , but it be right that the Post Office consider all its cost if we be to achieve an increase in sub - postmaster pay . in that regard , and on the hon . Lady ' s wide point , it be important that the Post Office management consult properly — previous management team have not always do so — with sub - postmaster , trade union and other stakeholder . I welcome the Minister ' s comment on the Horizon scandal , which affect sub - postmaster in every constituency , include mine . however , I must express concern about Stornoway post office be on the list of the 115 possible closure . the loss of the main post office would be a dreadful blow for the town , so I urge the Minister and the Post Office to ensure that islander have full physical access to Crown post office service . all option must be consider — except closure . as I have say , we be clear about our continue commitment to ensure that every community , no matter where in the UK , have access to post office service . that commitment have not change . indeed , we want to improve the quality of the offer from the Post Office — hence my comment about banking service . however , if it would be helpful , I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss his concern about his community . I very much welcome the Minister ' s commitment to the Post Office compensation — he lay out clearly the way forward , and we be all pleased to hear it . however , I must register my concern that post office branch in Newtownards in my constituency , and in Bangor in the neighbouring constituency of North Down , be poise to close , leave more than 100 , 000 people in Northern Ireland with no main post office . that will do nothing but reduce service for the most vulnerable in Northern Ireland and must be strenuously opposed . what step will be take between now and the final decision to ensure that the Government do not leave ten of thousand of people without a full service ? the Post Office acknowledge the limitation of post office hub in garage and shop . they can not cope , so big post office must remain open . I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s comment , as ever , and I recognise the concern of his constituent . as I say , we remain absolutely committed to ensure that every community have good access to post office service go forward , and no decision have be make about directly manage branch closure . if we be to achieve the objective of put the Post Office on a genuinely sustainable footing and increase sub - postmaster pay , we must consider all Post Office cost and how we can genuinely deliver , to all community , a well future for the Post Office . we be do that , but I be conscious of the strong point that he have make about his constituent . resident in Morley be extremely alarmed that Morley post office on Queen Street be one of those that could be close . Queen Street be the beat heart of Morley , and many people come into the town centre to use the service at the post office before go on to other shop . Bank branch have leave our town , too , and on their way out , they point at the post office and say , " Don ' t worry , you ' ve get service there . " well , now we be worried . will the Minister restate what he have already say several time about no decision have be make on closure , and will he meet I to talk about what we can to do keep Morley post office functioning ? I will happily meet my hon . friend . as I have say , no decision to close individual directly manage branch in full have be take . it be right that the Post Office consider the cost of provide directly manage branch go forward if we be to achieve the objective of put it on a sustainable footing . however , we be absolutely clear that every community in the UK need to be able to retain good access to post office service , and we be look at what else we can do with the Post Office senior management team to improve post office service , not least in banking . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . during Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister say that the Government have " not touch national insurance " , despite their have raise the rate of national insurance payable by 1 . 2 % and reduce the threshold at which employer have to pay it . may I seek your guidance on what the Prime Minister can do to correct the record ? I think the right hon . Member know that that be not a matter for the Chair , but I know that he take this matter very seriously , and his point of order be on the record . know he , he will no doubt pursue the matter via every process and procedure available to he . bill present Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Angela Rayner , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Bridget Phillipson , Catherine McKinnell , Jim McMahon , Stephen Morgan and James Murray , present a Bill to make provision for , and in connection with , the introduction of high non - domestic rating multiplier as regard large business hereditament , and low non - domestic rating multiplier as regard retail , hospitality and leisure hereditament , in England and for the removal of charitable relief from non - domestic rate for private school in England . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 129 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 129 - en ) . National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer , support by the Prime Minister , Darren Jones , James Murray , Tulip Siddiq and Emma Reynolds , present a Bill to make provision about secondary Class 1 contribution . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 131 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 131 - EN ) . debt Relief ( Developing Countries ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision for or in connection with the relief of debt of certain develop country . debt remain a huge cause of concern for low - income country in the wake of the covid pandemic and follow rise inflation on food and fuel . thirty - four african country spend more on external debt payment than on their entire healthcare and / or education budget . accord to a report from the Send my friend to School coalition , across low - income country , debt servicing on net interest payment account for 60 % of education expenditure . the late figure for Africa show that the total external debt service by all african country in 2024 be $ 104 billion . over 45 % of that amount , $ 47 billion , be owe to private creditor . to put that into perspective , the entire UK aid budget to Africa in 2024 be £ 993 million , or less than one hundredth of what african country owe in external debt . to use a specific example , this year the Kenyan Government will spend $ 5 . 149 billion on external debt , of which $ 2 . 981 billion will go towards external debt payment to commercial creditor . the UK provide Kenya with £ 45 million in aid , so in effect , UK aid be go towards help service that debt . at a time when we have see overseas development aid cut from 0 . 7 % to 0 . 5 % of GNI , we need to have an overview of the contribution that aid make , rather than see aid in isolation . if we be truly serious about ensure that UK aid go far , debt relief from private creditor have to be address . the G20 have identify debt as a problem for develop country , and have take some step to address it . in November 2020 , it create the common framework for debt treatment beyond the debt service suspension initiative . the intention be to allow low - income country with unsustainable debt to use that framework to obtain debt relief , include from private creditor . although well intentione , the common framework have be ineffective , because it have no tooth . private creditor have be unwilling to participate , and there be no process to ensure their participation . consequently , while government be negotiate debt relief with low - income country , private creditor be just go through the motion . one example be the in - principle agreement that Zambia make with private creditor , under which they would have be pay a third more than government creditor , include the UK and China . needless to say , the Government creditor veto that deal on the basis that there be no equal treatment of creditor as require by the common framework , leave Zambia in limbo . the four country that request debt treatment under the common framework experience lengthy delay and a long , draw - out process , with very little to show for all the time and effort spend on try to obtain debt relief . critic suggest that the failing of the common framework have be due to a lack of enforcement , a lack of a mechanism to co - ordinate creditor , a lack of transparent debt reporting , and an inability to prevent litigation and hold - out behaviour from creditor . the fact that only Chad , Zambia , Ghana and Ethiopia have use the common framework , and that none have see any debt cancel from private creditor , have show how ineffective the common framework be and have put other country off apply . despite the G20 Governments and the International Monetary Fund urge private creditor to co - operate , the G20 have not offer low - income country the tool they need to bring the private creditor to the table to negotiate debt treatment . there be an urgent need for a mechanism that will ensure that government and private creditor share the burden equally when restructure debt with low - income country , and that be something the UK can help with . the UK can play a big role in overcome the delay and bureaucracy cause by the common framework and can deliver equal treatment of creditor . in do so , it will deliver debt justice for low - income country and do what the G20 intend . how could this be do ? ninety per cent of the debt of the low - income country eligible to apply to the common framework be govern by english law . this Bill will compel private creditor to actively participate in the debt relief process by prevent they from sue for more than they would get if they accept debt relief on the same term as other lender . know that they could not get more than government creditor would also have the effect of encourage private creditor to reach a quick settlement , rather than drag their heel as they have be do under the common framework — some might say that in do so , they be act in bad faith . if successful , this process could lead to more application from low - income country than the paltry four that the common framework have receive to date . that could unlock billion for low - income country to spend on their health and education system , while not cost the Treasury a penny . for those who be sceptical about whether this can be do , I point to a precedent . in 2010 , the UK pass similar legislation , the Debt Relief ( Developing Countries ) Act , which start off as a private Member ' s Bill introduce by my good friend , my hon . friend the Member for Gorton and Denton ( Andrew Gwynne ) . that Act compel private creditor to participate in debt relief under the now - outdate heavily indebted poor country initiative . a subsequent Government review in 2011 , lead by the coalition Government , find that legislation to have be a success and to have have no adverse impact on the UK economy . my Bill will update the 2010 Act , strengthen certain measure , and make it applicable to the current G20 common framework . this Bill will reduce the burden of debt for the poor country and help overcome the ineffectiveness of the G20 common framework . it will also prevent future debt crisis by deter risky lending . there be much more that could be do to strengthen the common framework , such as introduce the legal automatic suspension of payment when a country apply to the common framework , as be the norm when big corporation deal with corporate debt restructuring . however , that be outside the scope of my Bill ; perhaps it be something that Ministers can take up directly with the G20 . next year will be the 25th anniversary of the Jubilee 2000 campaign , which seek debt forgiveness for low - income country and see over $ 100 billion of debt cancel for the 35 poor country in the world . we need to repeat that success , so that the saving from debt cancellation can go towards fund health and education programme in low - income country . with 3 . 3 billion people live in country that spend more on debt servicing than on health or education , the time to act be now . country seek debt relief be also experience extreme weather event due to climate change . last year , Zambia have its most severe flooding for more than 50 year , with over 25 , 000 household affect . right now , it be experience its bad drought in 40 year , with 50 % of this year ' s crop lose and with 2024 on track to be the hot year on record . Zambia be suffer despite only contribute 0 . 01 % of global greenhouse emission since the industrial revolution . although Zambia have seek debt relief from its large private creditor , that creditor have refuse to cancel the amount the International Monetary Fund have say be necessary to make the debt sustainable . that be typical of the behaviour of private creditor towards low - income country . it be everyone ' s responsibility to ensure that country such as Zambia get the debt justice they deserve , and it be imperative that we take action now . before I conclude , I want to thank the organisation that have provide I with invaluable advice and support in prepare this Bill , which have be champion the cause of debt relief for many year . those organisation be christian aid , the Catholic Agency for Overseas Development , and Debt Justice . I also wish to thank the Send my friend to School coalition and the House of Commons Library for some of the statistic use in my speech . I hope that this Bill will go some way to secure debt relief for low - income country , allow the money save to be reinveste in health and education system for those who need that investment most and help to tackle the effect of climate change , such as in the case of Zambia . morally , it be the right thing to do ; it be the just thing to do ; and it be the compassionate thing to do . I hope this Bill will receive the support it deserve and need . question put and agree to . order , that Bambos Charalambous , Sarah Champion , Alice Macdonald , Sam Rushworth , David Taylor , Laura Kyrke - Smith , Gordon McKee , Chris Law , Ellie Chowns , Liz Saville Roberts , Tonia Antoniazzi and Jo Platt present the Bill . Bambos Charalambous accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 14 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 128 ) . representation of the People I beg to move , that the draft Voter Identification ( Amendment of List of Specified Documents ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 October , be approve . the Elections Act 2022 amend the parliamentary election law set out in schedule 1 to the Representation of the People Act 1983 , set out the requirement for voter to show photographic identification when vote in person in a polling station in Great Britain . the list of accept form of photographic ID be set out in rule 37 of schedule 1 and include passport ; drive licence ; various concessionary travelcard ; identity card bear the Proof of Age Standards Scheme hologram , such as the Young Scot card , or the National Union of Students TOTUM card ; blue badge ; and the defence identity card . as set out in our manifesto , the Government be commit to improve how voter ID work by address inconsistency and ensure that legitimate elector be able to vote . we be carefully and thoroughly review the voter ID rule and evaluate how they impact citizen during the general election . work be already under way on that evaluation , use datum gather at polling station , along with public opinion survey and qualitative research involve elector and the electoral sector . the Electoral Commission have also conduct a thorough review of the 2024 general election . it publish an interim report on voter ID in September , and a final report on the wide conduct of the poll just today . we will of course carefully consider the commission ' s finding and recommendation as part of our own review of the voter identification policy , and we will respond formally to both the commission ' s report in the new year . if we find that change be necessary or appropriate , we will bring forward further proposal on the wide voter ID policy in due course . I do not wish to speculate today on what those might be , but I will of course keep the House inform on the outcome of our work . however , there be a clear gap in the exist provision , which we can and should address now : the absence of his Majesty ' s armed force veteran card from the accept voter ID list . that be why we make the card ' s inclusion in that list a manifesto commitment . the veteran card recognise our veteran ' service and dedication to our country , and the propose change be just one of the thing that the Government be do to honour their contribution . we should not allow the need for full consideration of the policy in the round to stop we make a necessary change that will support veteran to exercise their democratic right . opposition Members be supportive of this change when in government , and I hope that consensus remain . this instrument make change to the current legislation , which set out the accept form of voter ID , and will result in the veteran card be add to the list of accept form of ID for the purpose of voting in Great Britain . that will mean that holder of the veteran card can use it to prove their identity when vote in person in polling station in all election from May 2025 onwards . the veteran card be fully launch in January this year and be now available free of charge to all veteran . add the veteran card to the list , alongside the already accept defence identity card , will bring parity between veteran and serve armed service personnel when vote . the regulation make two further small change , introduce technical clarification to support the smooth and consistent application of the law . the need for they be highlight by electoral administrator who be operate the policy in practice . first , the regulation provide clarification regard the entry in rule 37 relate to Commonwealth passport by update it to refer to the list of Commonwealth country in the British Nationality Act 1981 . that will make the voter ID legislation consistent with electoral registration legislation . in particular , it will allow Zimbabwean passport to be use as identification at polling station from May 2025 . secondly , the regulation vary the entry relate to the scottish national entitlement card . as currently draft , the legislation list that document under the section refer to concessionary travel pass . the regulation will amend the legislation so that the card , which can be use for a number of purpose , be list elsewhere , and make it clear that those card issue for non - travel purpose should also be accept . finally , the regulation contain update prescribe form of the poll card send out to elector ahead of an election . that be to update the provision give elector guidance on the voter identification policy , to reflect the change I have set out . implement our manifesto commitment to add the veteran card to the list of accept identification for voting be an important first step in a much broad programme of work to open up participation in our democracy . the Government be elect on a manifesto for change , and alongside our commitment to review and amend the voter ID rule , we have an ambitious and exciting programme to strengthen and widen our vibrant democracy . that include introduce vote for 16 and 17 - year - old in all election , improve voter registration and strengthen our political finance framework to protect against foreign interference in our election . here and now , the addition of the veteran card support an important community in engage in election and exercise their democratic right . I thank all those who have campaign to make this change a reality , and I hope hon . member will join I in support these measure . I know that the Minister have be in position for three month , but I have just join the shadow Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government team , so I welcome she to her place . I look forward to work constructively with she from the Opposition Benches over the next few year — hopefully not too many year . I be pleased to confirm that the opposition support the regulation , which will add the new veteran card to the list of approve photographic identification that can be use for vote at a polling station . in addition , the regulation make small change , which we also support , to the exist entry in the list of approve identification regard Commonwealth passport and scottish national entitlement card . I be proud that the last Government be responsible for introduce the new veteran card to help veteran access specialist support and service , include from the NHS , their local authority and charity . we all owe a huge debt of gratitude to our veteran , and it be my sincere hope that the veteran card be make it easy for those who need support for issue relate to their service to access it in good time . I be grateful to the Minister for the Armed Forces for be here to show his and the Government ' s support and thank for the work that our veteran do . roll out the new veteran card to around 2 million veteran in the UK be a vast job , and I be sure the whole House will agree that it be vital that the last Government get thing right , not only so that veteran could benefit from the new card as soon as possible , but so that the system can accurately and securely process the large volume of card application require . in 2019 , the Government begin roll out the veteran card to armed force personnel who have leave since December 2018 . in January this year , follow month of testing , the previous Government launch the online application service to enable veteran who leave the armed force before December 2018 to apply . a paper - base application process be also launch . I take pride in the work undertake by the last government , include the £ 3 million investment make last year to scale up production of the veteran card . as the Minister will know , because the list of accept voter identification be approve by this place and the other place in December 2022 , just over a year before the late stage of roll out the veteran card begin , it be not possible to include the card on the original list of accept voter identification . however , as many of my colleague have make clear , the last Government plan to consider add the new veteran card to the list once it have be roll out . indeed , my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , who be a Minister before the general election , identify that that statutory instrument have be draft and be due to be introduce to the House before the former Prime Minister call the general election . there be no doubt that the opposition support such measure , as well as those that the Government have bring forward today . it be important that any addition to the list of approve voter identification reflect the need for such document to be suitably secure , so that they be not easy to falsify or to acquire with false information . that be vital if we be to secure the integrity of our election in the way that voter deserve . I be glad that the new veteran card satisfie that requirement , and that its addition to the list of approve identification have be warmly welcome by the veteran community . may I press the Minister to set out what action the Government plan to take to ensure that as many veteran as possible be make aware of that addition , ahead of polling day for the local election in May next year ? show identification to prove who we be be something that people from all walk of life do every day . opposition member firmly believe that carry out that practice at the polling station be a reasonable and proportionate way to give the public the assurance that their vote be theirs , and no one else ' s . without a requirement for voter identification it would be more difficult to take out a library book or collect a parcel from the post office than it would be to vote in someone else ' s name . I understand — perhaps the Minister will confirm this — that people even need to present ID to attend Labour party event . if Labour Members , who oppose voter identification in the last Parliament , think that be good enough for they at their event , have they now change their mind about the issue ? even the Electoral Commission say that at the last general election in 2024 , 99 . 92 % of people successfully cast their vote . in the Minister ' s opening speech she give no guarantee about whether the Labour Government have fundamentally change their view on the principle of voter identification . I understand that they will need to bring forward minor adjustment to document that may need to be present and amend , but will the Government confirm that after oppose what I would call a sensible measure , they have now change their mind and accept that legislation bring forward under the previous Government will stay ? what scrutiny mechanism will the Minister guarantee to the House , should the Government make their view know that they wish to change the approach of the last government ? as I make clear to the House in 2022 when I speak about a measure to introduce this legislation , vote with someone else ' s voting card be unlikely to be prove , and the lack of ability to prosecute on that basis be exactly why voter identification be so important . prior to the introduction of voter identification , the previous security system have see no significant change since 1872 . I hope the Minister will assure I that she be of the opinion that people in this country deserve election that be secure and fit for the 21st century . as she will be aware , most european country require some form of identification to vote . international election observer repeatedly call for the introduction of identification in polling station in Great Britain , say that its absence open the door to electoral fraud . voter identification have be support by organisation such as the Electoral Commission and the Organisation for Security and Co - operation in Europe . indeed , the Council of Europe ' s Venice Commission recommend voter identification as part of the gold standard for ensure that election be free and fair , say that it be " of paramount importance for the overall integrity of the electoral process " . in conclusion , as I have outline , it should go without say that electoral fraud undermine the fundamental right to vote in free and fair election . it be right for the last government to stamp out the potential for voter fraud and bring the rest of the UK into line with Northern Ireland , which have have such arrangement before . the Opposition support add the new veteran card to the list of approve identification , and will closely scrutinise any further announcement from the voter identification scheme . after the Minister weave it into her opening remark , we understand that the Government have make a commitment on vote at 16 . I look forward to tempt she to outline to the Opposition and all party in the House whether she will go far and say what scrutiny measure we will have in the House , and when we can expect the Government to bring such measure forward . I pay tribute to the Minister for find time to bring this statutory instrument to the Floor of the House . during last May ' s local election , many veteran report that they attempt to use the recently launch veteran card when vote , only to be tell that it do not count as valid voter ID . that be unacceptable , and as the shadow Minister rightly highlight , it be welcome that the Minister for Veterans ’ affair under the previous Government pledge to change that in time for a general election . this statutory instrument fix the fault that see veteran turn away at the ballot box last May , and I hope that the whole House will support this measure . I urge the Government to ensure that this be not the last set of change to voter ID rule that we hear about this Parliament . thank to the tireless work of electoral administrator up and down the country , the vast majority of our constituent be able to vote in the recent general election . but we must not be complacent . we must remember that voting be a right , not a privilege . this be not about something as easy as buy a car , it be about how we ensure that we hold our democratic official to account . where be that accountability when resident can not vote , and when some of our council have struggle to ensure that those resident can vote ? we know that , sadly , some people be turn away from the polling station during the election . indeed , I have speak to people in my constituency who have issue with postal vote and with voting on the day . it be important that we look at the rule before we , and ensure that our voting system be accessible to everybody . even if just one legitimate voter be turn away , that be a travesty and an affront to democracy . as the shadow Minister and Minister highlight , when we be consider extend the right to vote to 16 and 17 - year - old — something I have long campaign for — it be crucial that the Government be aware of the anger feel by young people who , at this moment in time , see other people whose bus pass be allow as a valid form of voter ID , yet that same photo ID be not allow at the ballot box for someone who be 18 . make it make sense ! that could be problematic for 16 and 17 - year - old , many of whom do not carry photo ID for age verification compare with their old peer . they be likely to have a bus pass for travel to and from college , university , or work , yet they still can not use that to vote . I therefore agree with the Electoral Commission that the Government must consider the list of acceptable form of voter ID , and at how we can increase awareness and the uptake of voter authority certificate . I welcome that the Minister have previously say that this SI be the first of many step in reform the voter ID system , and that the Government will publish an independent evaluation on that later this year . I be concern , however , that the long we leave wide reform to voter ID , the more legitimate voter will fall through the crack with their voice go unheard . will the Minister confirm that this will not be the only reform we see in place before the next set of election in 2025 ? will she also confirm that further change to the voter ID system will be in effect in time for the 2026 local election ? I would also welcome clarification on the scope of the evaluation , and in particular on whether the Government be open - minded about perhaps introduce digital photo ID as a form of accessible id , or perhaps scrap the need to have photo ID to vote , or even scrap voter ID in its entirety . finally , on a wide note , the Minister may be aware of the " Electoral Commission strategy and policy statement " , introduce under the previous Government . if we be be honest , it be an attack on the independence of the Electoral Commission , and it be widely pan by the predecessor to my Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , many across different civic and democratic group , the Electoral Commission and even the shadow Minister at the time . can the Minister confirm whether the new Government will be scrap that statement and look to remove the basis for it in primary legislation during this Parliament ? we now come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . everyone should have the right to vote . it be a fundamental cornerstone of our democracy . encourage voter participation and democratic engagement should be at the centre of every Government policy , but political engagement be at a historic low . voter participation in our recent general election be the low since 2001 , with few than 60 % of eligible voter cast their ballot . it be vital that the Government do all they can to encourage public engagement with politic . we must act to restore public trust and to ensure that we remove obstacle that prevent people from exercise their full democratic right . the Liberal Democrats be therefore glad to see the Government introduce measure that support veteran . while we be pleased that the regulation will make voting more accessible for veteran , we be concerned that the support do not extend to other affected group , and we call on the Government to repeal the voter ID scheme entirely , to ensure that all eligible people can exercise their democratic right as easily as possible . on Monday , we mark Remembrance Day . every year , it serve as a solemn reminder of the bravery and sacrifice of so many who put their life on the line in the defence of our liberty and democracy . we must ensure that all our veteran be properly support and that their work be truly recognise . liberal Democrats support a wide range of measure to support veteran , from ensure that veteran impact by the cost of living crisis be get the support they need to do more for unpaid carer in the armed force community . it be shameful that the previous Conservative Government originally fail to include veteran ' ID in their list of acceptable identification when they first introduce this legislation . the regulation will make it easy for veteran to vote through the expansion of accept form of ID at polling station . while the Liberal Democrats be supportive of measure to support veteran in access appropriate identification , we urge the Government to remove the requirement for ID altogether . veteran be be let down . it be a scandal that those who put their life on the line in the defence of our country too frequently fall through gap in support . the Liberal Democrats be call for a fair deal for our veteran and military personnel . that include place a legal duty on Departments to give due regard to the armed force covenant , establish a centralised information hub for the family of service personnel , reach an agreement with the European Union for reciprocal access to spousal employment for family of serve personnel and cancel the Conservative Government ' s ill - advise cut to the Army . in 2022 , the last Conservative Government introduce a new law require voter to show photo ID to vote in general election , local election and referendum in England . be able to vote be a fundamental democratic right , yet thank to the Conservatives , it be now at risk . million of voter be affect by this unnecessary and undemocratic requirement . the Liberal Democrats be oppose to the voter ID scheme , and we have call continually for the scheme to be scrap . the hon . Lady ' s party have the word democrat in it , so I want to understand something . if her policy be enact , it would mean that people ' s vote could be take simply by someone go to a polling station and know the name and address of their next - door neighbour . do she agree with that and , if so , do she not understand that her proposal would bring a lack of security to the voting system in this country , would encourage fraud and would make sure that result be not as accurate as they could be ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the number of incident of personation — I be just come to this point — in 2022 be few than 13 and no prosecution have take place . he may say it be less than 1 % , but that result in several thousand people be unable to exercise their democratic right to vote in the general election , because of the unnecessary requirement to produce voter ID . there may well be the risk of voter fraud , but it be yet to materialise in any significant way , and we have see that this measure , bring in to combat that suppose risk , have result in thousand of our fellow citizen be unable to exercise their democratic right to vote . we be therefore opposed to the voter ID scheme and continue to call for it to be scrap . the shamble of the last Conservative Government create a crisis for democracy in this country with their cronyism , rule break and constant sleaze scandal , and public trust in Government be worryingly low . successive conservative Prime Ministers act without integrity and treat Parliament and the people with disdain . the voter ID scheme be just a further example of that . we continue to lead the fight against this deeply unfair , unnecessary and expensive scheme . the impact must not be underestimate . every vote matter , and we must ensure that we be not prevent people from make their voice hear . the report publish today by the Electoral Commission find that around 4 % of eligible people who do not vote say that be because of the voter ID requirement . More in Common find that 3 . 2 % say they be turn away at least once on 4 July . if that be reflect across the UK , that would equate to more than 850 , 000 people . of that 3 . 2 % , more than half say that either they do not return or they come back and be still unable to vote . it be important to note that recent figure from London council show that three in 10 londoner who be turn away from polling station due to a lack of appropriate voter ID do not return to vote . it be essential that people who have a legitimate right to vote be not prevent from exercise that right . more broadly , voter ID have not impact all constituent equally . the hon . Lady say that people have arrive to vote in somebody ' s name and have be turn away and do not return when ask for ID . how can she be certain that they be the person they say they be ? I be quote , obviously , source from the Electoral Commission and More in Common — organisation that have carry out extensive polling on this question — and people say they be turn away because they do not have the correct voter ID . I think the hon . Lady be quibble , frankly . there be no doubt that significant number of people be unable to vote in this last election who have the right to do so , and that be because of this unnecessary legislation . research follow the general election indicate that voter ID legislation disproportionately impact minority ethnic group , with Hope not hate report that 6 . 5 % of ethnic minority voter be turn away from a polling booth at least once , compare with 2 . 5 % of white voter . furthermore , Jacob Rees - Mogg , who be a Cabinet Minister when voter ID be introduce , describe the law as an attempt to " gerrymander " election in the Conservatives ’ favour . while we can not know how those who do not cast their ballot would have vote , and so can not directly measure the effectiveness of that deeply worry intention , research by the Electoral Commission show that the clear impact of the voter ID requirement be in relation to social grade . the specification for accepted form of ID specifically relate to proof of address have disproportionately affect young people and people live in social housing . we know that the dire economic situation inherit by this Government have require the Chancellor to make tough decision , as we see with the recent Budget statement . give the need for the Government to make spending more efficient , why be they choose to keep the voter ID scheme in place ? the scheme be project to cost £ 120 million over the next 10 year . it be a waste of taxpayer ' money , and it be an obvious place where the Government could save money , redirect it to support some of the most vulnerable in society or to fund vitally need infrastructure project . more broadly , we be supportive of wide electoral reform , and we look to the Government to support our pledge to modernise our electoral system . Electoral Commission research show that potentially as many as 8 million people be incorrectly record on the electoral register across the UK . we should be remove barrier for all voter to encourage voter participation and public engagement . improvement in the system could be achieve through modernisation of the registration system , such as a requirement on public body to share datum with electoral administrator to improve the register ' s accuracy . give the huge cost of the voter ID scheme — £ 120 million over the next decade — could those resource not be well spend in modernise the electoral register and ensure that all eligible voter be correctly record ? it be vital that barrier to voting be remove for all eligible voter and that the deeply worrying finding of the Electoral Commission regard voter registration be address . the Liberal Democrats want to strengthen democratic right by expand political and democratic engagement . we want to extend the right to vote to 16 and 17 - year - old . I echo the point make by the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) about the additional barrier that voter ID will present to young voter , once the right to vote be extend to they , because they will find it that much hard to find appropriate id . we call on the Government to enshrine the ministerial code in legislation , give Parliament the power to hold Ministers to account and protect politic from corruption and sleaze . we also want to see this new Labour Government be bold in strengthen the power of local authority who know well what their community and town need . at the 2022 election , there be 13 case of allege personation investigate , and no further action be take in any of those case . would the Minister not agree that the much more concern issue be that of an inaccurate electoral register ? it be vital that we remove barrier to vote and do all we can to ensure that the 8 million people who be currently not correctly register be not exclude from cast their ballot . Voter ID , which will cost £ 120 million over the next decade , be like use a sledgehammer to try to crack a nut . it be a waste of taxpayer ' money . while I appreciate the step that the regulation will take to support veteran , they will do nothing to improve accessibility for many of the most affected community , such as those rent from a social landlord , the unemployed , low social grade , disabled people and young people . I question why the Government do not remove the barrier entirely , and I urge they to scrap the Conservatives ' undemocratic voter ID scheme altogether . before I call the next speaker , I will announce the result of today ' s deferred Division on the draft Windsor Framework ( Non - Commercial Movement of Pet Animals ) Regulations 2024 . the Ayes be 412 and the Noes be 16 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] I thank the Government for bring these regulation to the House more than six month before the next schedule set of election . it be a benchmark of good protocol and good practice in the electoral community to bring such change forward with good notice , because of course they affect electoral administrator up and down the country . we do not see that under the last government , with legislation often consider by the House just a couple of month before administrator be have to implement it . I therefore thank the Government for the good notice that they be give today . while I welcome the regulation and will support they , there be still some huge gap in the accessibility of ID for vote . the Electoral Commission ' s early research suggest that those who be unemployed , those from low socioeconomic group and disabled people be struggle to access ID that enable they to vote . that be reflect in the statistic we have see from the last general election . the Electoral Commission , which be our independent regulator , do an awful lot of good work at the general election to ensure that public awareness of the need for ID reach the vast majority of people . I believe that 87 % of people be aware of the policy , but awareness fall in certain group , particularly among young people , where it be just 71 % , and those from ethnic minority background , at 76 % . I call on the commission to continue to focus on the group that be more difficult to reach , and I call on the Government to support the commission to be able to do that work so that we do not see a repeat of the general election in July , where about 16 , 000 people do not have the require ID to vote and be turn away at the ballot box . that be a travesty . I be grateful to the hon . member for make that point . I be interested in the report that have come out , which I have not have a chance to see . I believe that Northern Ireland have have voter ID since 2003 — that system have be in place for two decade — so we have a direct comparison within the UK of voter in the general election , from which we can learn . be there any evidence to suggest that Northern Ireland struggle ? give that it be two decade ahead of England in this case , would not it be interesting to see the comparative datum so that the Government can take that forward and learn from Northern Ireland ? the hon . Gentleman be test my memory : I have read comparative datum on Northern Ireland , but that be some time ago . I believe that it take several electoral cycle in Northern Ireland for information to be understand by the electorate and use more confidently . the way in which the free voter ID card be issue in Northern Ireland be different from Great Britain , and that bring I to voter authority certificate . one thing that I feel disappointed about at the last general election be the low than expect take - up of those certificate . that might be partly because they be not make as appealing as they could be , and that be not necessarily about the application process . I believe that in Northern Ireland people get a plastic card that can be use as ID for thing other than vote , whereas the voter authority certificate in Great Britain be a piece of paper , which someone who be , for example , 19 or 20 year old will not want to take with they down to the local nightclub to try and gain access . the small plastic card , which be more durable for other purpose as well , have a high take - up . will the Minister respond with her thought about whether voter authority certificate could be expand or develop , perhaps learn from part of the United Kingdom where they have have high take - up ? in the public opinion datum from the general election , we learn that 4 % of people who do not vote say that their decision be relate to the voter ID requirement . my concern be that that research suggest there be people who be not turn up at polling station for that reason . the datum that the Government can access be from those who turn up at polling station and be turn away , but I think that we be miss a lot of people who never leave the house . certainly my experience on polling day be of meet voter who know they do not have access to ID — perhaps they do not know about the voter authority certificate — and have decide to stay at home . I approach this in a positive way and want to put recommendation and suggestion to the Minister on how we can improve access to democracy , which be incredibly important . I be pleased to hear that the Government will review the list of accept form of ID . I plead with the Minister to look seriously at ID that be accessible to young voter , those with disability and those from ethnic minority in addition to the veteran card , whose inclusion I very much welcome . as the original legislation pass through Committee , one thing that be debate be whether register voter who have ID and can prove their identity could make an attestation at the polling station on behalf of someone who do not have accept ID , which be know as vouch . for example , we have Mr and Mrs Smith , and while Mrs Smith have a drive licence , Mr Smith do not , and neither of they have passport . they could go to the polling station together , where she could attest that her husband , who be with she , be who he say he be — the entitled voter — and use one ID to vouch for the whole household to ensure that he be not disenfranchised . I come across such a case in my constituency at the election . as have be say , turnout at the general election fall below 60 % , which be the low level since 2001 . it be down 7 . 6 percentage point on the 2019 general election . that should give we all pause for thought . I believe that we have a crisis of voter participation in this country , with voter who be entitle and register to vote choose not to vote . the crisis be not people turn up at the polling station , pretend to be someone they be not and take more vote than they be entitle to ; it be those who be entitle to vote not vote . when turnout decline , the strength our democracy decline with it . I be pleased to hear the Government talk about strengthen participation in democracy , and I hope that the Minister will be able to say a little more about that in wind up . may I ask the Minister whether she plan to return to the House — and if so , whether she have an idea of the timescale — to add more id to the list of acceptable id ? do she agree that to strengthen democracy we should be look at how to increase voter participation and not place additional barrier to people take part ? on that point , the electoral roll continue to be deeply inaccurate . we now have the technology to look seriously at automatic voter registration , and the state know who live where and who be entitle to vote , so be there a way in which we can ensure that our electoral roll be far more accurate and reflect where people live so that it be easy for people to vote at a general election ? my hon . friend make a valid and important point . one constituent raise with I the fact that when they move , before they have finish unpack they get a council tax bill . we can get people ' s information for that , so should we not register they to vote in the same way ? the data be there . as I would expect , the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee make a valid point . the reality be that in this country we make it very difficult for people to register to vote . I think that we can make it easy . we can make people ' s live easy , and hopefully encourage participation in democracy . as I say , I be worried about the health of democracy in this country , and one of the thing that worry I the most be the lack of participation . voter turnout be on the decline concern I , and I believe that it should concern the whole House . I very much welcome this proposal . I represent a constituency in Northern Ireland , where , as have be reference , we have have voter ID for over 20 year . it work very well , and be something that the rest of the United Kingdom could build upon and learn from . the hon . member for Lancaster and Wyre ( Cat Smith ) say that we have a voter ID card . yes , we do . if a person do not have a passport , drive licence , bus pass or whatever else be on the list , they can apply to the Electoral Office , supply a photograph , and complete a form that a councillor , MP or doctor can verify . the person be then issue , for free , a voter ID card that carry their photograph and name . as the hon . Member suggest , it be valuable in other regard as well , so I would certainly recommend that as a way to go in these matter . the draft regulation will add the veteran card to the list of usable identification . while the regulation apply only to Great Britain , upon see they I table a question to the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , and I be very pleased with his answer . he indicate that he propose to add the veteran card to the list of acceptable document in Northern Ireland before we have further election . that be good because it not only enhance the parity that should exist but ease the situation of veteran when it come to voting . I very much welcome that . I listen with interest to the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats . I do not understand their aversion to voter ID . in Northern Ireland , we have have it for more than 20 year because of industrial - scale voter fraud , organise in the main of course by Sinn F é in , which literally have an army at its back to steal vote . face with that , it be right to have a system of voter ID . no party that be not engage in cheat or want to cheat have anything to fear from it . I share the hon . and learn Member ' s scepticism about the view of the Liberal Democrats . I believe the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) say that there be no conviction for electoral fraud in this country during 2021 - 22 . actually , there be a case in Eastleigh , my old constituency — I see that the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) be also present — of someone who have to complete 50 hour of unpaid work for provide a false name at a polling station in 2022 . we should be do anything that we can to diminish the opportunity for voter fraud . why would we not ? I do not understand the reticence . the hon . and learn Gentleman mention that he do not see why political party that compete fairly should have anything to fear . I put it to he that it be not a fear of political party ; it be much more about uphold the right of voter . it be their interest that we need to protect , not the interest of political party . that be why we be call for the abolition of voter ID , although I fully take on board his point about the situation in Northern Ireland . we be protect voter when we prevent voter fraud , which be precisely what voter ID do . it be the ordinary citizen who be be protect — the citizen who want to play by the rule , who want to vote properly , and who do not want to cheat or personate other . that be the person we be protect by introduce voter ID . as I say to the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) , the risk of be prevent from vote because of an inability to produce the relevant voter ID be much high than the risk of personation . that be bear out by all the evidence and research . the hon . Gentleman manage to cite one instance in Eastleigh . I put it to he , and to the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) , that that single instance be likely to be outweigh many time over by the number of people who be prevent from vote by the requirement . I respectfully suggest that there be probably an unknown hidden degree of personation . if a certain number of people be prosecute , it do not mean that only that number of people be personate other . the way to rule out personation and present hurdle to it be to have voter ID . I really do not understand why anyone who want a clean election , with only legitimate voter vote and only legitimate vote count , would say , " we don ' t want any protection to ensure that there ' s no voter cheating . " surely we should all want to be on the side of prevent cheating in election . this really be the question : be we on the side of make it more difficult to cheat in an election , or on the side of make it easy ? surely we should all be on the side of make it more difficult . I therefore strongly defend voter ID . return to the core subject matter , it be fitting that in the week of Remembrance Day we be add the veteran card to the ID list . I look forward to that happen in Northern Ireland as well , but I want to raise a point that a serve soldier send I a message about , which also touch on voting . he write : " I just want to highlight a further issue that serve member of the Armed Forces when serve abroad can ' t exercise their ability to vote due to the inefficiency of the now contract British Forces Post Office . the length of time to request a postal vote " , which be how most service people vote , " and then to send your vote mean you miss the deadline " often . he then cite all the country where servicemen be . some can be as far away as the Falklands , Germany , Poland or Africa . he ask why we can not have more efficiency in get postal vote out to service people and back . that seem a legitimate question . he go on : " many other country provide polling booth in their military basis or … in their embassy " . why do we not do that , Minister ? why do we not go far for our service personnel serve abroad , to ensure that they participate in the democratic process , as they be entitle to ? those be important question that need to be answer , and a matter to which this House should give some attention . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak in this afternoon ' s debate , though somewhat briefly . I welcome the speech by my hon . friend the Minister and the measure outline today . I want to mention two point of interest to my local resident and other around the country . the first , mention early , be the huge importance of parity between veteran and serve personnel . it be important to discuss this regulation , and timely that we be do so this week . the second point be about flexibility and practicality when it come to the ability to vote . this statutory instrument be an important step forward . in my experience , many people struggle to find the right id , particularly those who do not have drive licence or an up - to - date passport . I have come across many resident in reading who live on relatively modest income , possibly in social housing , or who move house frequently , and who do not have access to ID and would appreciate exist ID be accredit . this be an important , welcome and timely step to help those people participate in election . I also welcome the fact that this change be happen six month before the next set of election across the UK , the county council election . those will not take place in my community , as we be under a unitary local authority , but for many people this measure be timely and important , and it will help people participate in democracy . all of we across the House should welcome it . I do , because it show respect to veteran . I would like to mention British Gurkhas , as we have a large british Gurkha community in Reading . these be former gurkha soldier who have become british , and have british nationality . many of they live in the town centre on relatively modest income , and this will be particularly welcome to they . I want to say a special thank you to that community . for the final Back - Bench contribution , I call Calvin Bailey . I welcome this statutory instrument , which put right an inconsistency that should never have arise in the first place . I be grateful to the Government for their rapid work to get we to this point , include that do by the Minister for the Armed Forces . I recognise wide concern about voter ID rule , but the Government be right to prioritise this measure as a first step , and keep to our manifesto promise while the wide review continue . as we know , many veteran face particular challenge in prove their identity in many aspect of civilian life . we veteran be more likely to have move around regularly , and may not have the record , or the experience of engagement with civilian authority , such as council . that create barrier that we need to remove . in my career , my home base move around constantly for many year . my drive licence give my parent ' address , because it be the only fix abode I could refer back to . that be typical for many of our service personnel . we should recognise that service personnel have few fixed connection to rely on when they leave the force . it can be confusing to go from have a MOD 90 — a core part of life that shape how service personnel engage with all the service and authority that they encounter — to be out in the civilian world , with a blizzard of form and application that service personnel be simply not use to deal with . the least we can do be to make sure that these process be easy . obviously , the right first step be the veteran card , but it be of limited use unless it can make life easy and less hostile for people leave our military after complete their service to we all . society trust our military id . in time , we must learn to continue value service , and must come to trust our veteran id in the same way . we have to ask why it have take action from this Government to correct this mistake and create parity between veteran card and the MOD 90 . it be shameful to read in leak report that the previous Prime Minister deliberately push to keep this barrier to veteran voting , base on nothing more than a vague fear that give in on the veteran card would make it hard to say no to student ID card . that say it all about the decision making on voter ID . it be welcome that the rule will be subject to continue wide review . I must also address the point make by the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) about service personnel , because I be impact by the issue he mention . while serve in the United States , uphold democracy , I lose the ability to vote . that be a terrible affront , and I urge the Government to give due consideration to the issue . fairness and do right by those who have serve we be vital , and it be what our community want . secure a sense of fairness and integration between the force and our community be important because of the impact on recruitment and retention , which have be degrade over the past 14 year , with real cost to our national defence . I finish with the recognition , which I know minister share fully , that this be just one step among many that will need to be take if we be to remove the barrier that many veteran face when try to access their right and play a full role in our community . we can now look forward to work together on a wide agenda , which be so important for keep all our people safe . I be grateful to hon . member for their excellent contribution , and to the shadow Minister for his contribution . this be the first of what I hope will be a number of debate on this important agenda . I will not be able to give an exhaustive response to all the contribution make today , but I look forward to meet hon . member to follow up on specific point , and I thank they for their work in the previous Parliament on this agenda . I will speak to some of the point that have be make . the shadow Minister raise issue around the wide policy and what we will do . he will be aware that today ' s measure be a really important part of the work we be do . I be proud to say that my party be take action to ensure that veteran can exercise their democratic right , and I be grateful to colleague for their work on that . on the point around evaluation of the 2024 general election , as I say , we will look carefully at the proposal in the previous Electoral Commission report and the one publish today , and establish what action need to be take . we be undertake a strategic review of electoral registration , conduct and funding process , look at the big challenge and pain point in the system , and work in partnership with the election sector to understand how to address the challenge in a practical and pragmatic manner . I recently meet the head of the Electoral Commission . the shadow Minister mention raise awareness . the Electoral Commission have an important , positive role in raise awareness among not only veteran but other elector , such as young people , and in support the need of other group who have traditionally be exclude . we look forward to work with it closely on this very important agenda . the Minister be make an excellent point about broaden this out — veteran be a great first step — to other group , in particular those who be disabled , or blind and partially sight . one of the crucial challenge they face be be able to vote independently and in secret , as well as that of have access to the right ID . will she take that point away and ensure that in further conversation , she focus on enable those live with sight loss to vote independently and in secret ? I thank my hon . friend for her contribution ; she be a powerful advocate on this agenda . I be incredibly proud of the work she have do to raise awareness , and I look forward to work with she and other to make sure that voter be not exclude , in particular voter with a visual impairment or other disability . we will look carefully at the commission ' s finding and recommendation in both the report that have be publish and provide a formal response to both . on the wide point about the evaluation of the introduction of voter ID at UK election , member will be aware that the Elections Act 2022 include a requirement for the Secretary of State to publish an evaluation of the impact of the implementation of the voter ID policy on the next local election and the next two UK parliamentary election . we have contract IFF Research , an independent research organisation , to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the 2024 general election . in light of the point that have be make about the ID scheme use in the election , it be critical that we look at the evidence base and identify what further action need to be take . I look forward to work with colleague as that evidence come through . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) make a point about Northern Ireland . it be critical that we respect the way election be run in Northern Ireland , and that we recognise the difference between the procedure in Northern Ireland and Great Britain . there have be a requirement , as he highlight , to show voter ID in Northern Ireland since 2002 . there be also difference in the list of accept document . the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland intend to bring forward legislation to add the veteran card to the list of ID document that may be use in Northern Ireland ' s polling station in advance of its next election , schedule to be hold in 2027 . a number of point be make about the impact of voter ID on 16 and 17 - year - old . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) for her work as a Front - Bench spokesperson on these important issue . as part of our commitment to expand the voter franchise to 16 and 17 - year - old , we will need to consider whether the identification requirement may be more difficult for young voter to meet . some of those concern have be highlight today . it be crucial that there be no barrier to the enfranchisement we want to see . we look forward to understand well what be different about the need of that young demographic , in term of pattern of ownership of identity document . we be consider that as part of our work towards expand the franchise . once again , I look forward to hear from colleague about their experience as they discuss this important change with young people in their constituency . I will be do the same in mine . my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) and other raise accessibility , in particular the support need for disabled voter . we be commit to support return officer to ensure that disabled people can participate in election . we continue to work closely with organisation that represent disabled people and the election sector to support they to take part in the democratic process . importantly , the blue badge and the disabled person ' s bus pass be already in place , but we will of course consider whether more can be do to support those elector , because it can not be right that they be exclude in any way . forgive I for expand on this issue slightly , but do my hon . friend agree that we should consider other method of voting ? to be accessible , voting could be do digitally . that be a very important point . I do not want to pre - empt what we will do in the future , but I look forward greatly to my hon . friend ' s provide input as we conduct the review , and I encourage other colleague to do the same . this be a very important agenda , and it be a big opportunity for parliamentarian and other to contribute to the proposal that we will consider and present . a number of point be make about additional document , and we will look at those during our review . I have mention young people in particular . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green , the newly elect Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , raise a number of important point . I will not go through they all , but I look forward to meet she and other to pursue the agenda far . she refer to the current strategy and policy statement ; it do not reflect the Government ' s priority , so we will not be leave it in place . my hon . Friend also speak about change ahead of May 2025 . it be important for any proposal for electoral change to be properly consider and for any change in the list of accepted ID to be base on sound datum . it be right that elector have certainty and clarity about what be accept , and that electoral administrator be fully able to take account of any change . accordingly , we will not introduce further change for May 2025 . we be take our time to get this right , and we will ensure that any further change be clear and fully consider . at this point , we be not commit to a specific timeframe . my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) mention the role and contribution of british Gurkhas . we be all incredibly grateful for their contribution , and that be partly why this agenda be so important . let I say something about the wide work that the Government be do to support veteran . the Minister for Veterans and People be work with veteran group and armed force charity , as well as public body , to promote the accessibility and availability of the support for they . that support range from housing and skill to mental health provision , as well as help for those who want to stand for public office . I be delighted to see a number of colleague on both side of the House who have come to our Parliament from the armed service ; they have make some powerful contribution , include their speech in this debate . our work on voter ID for veteran be very much part of this agenda . the Veterans Minister will be work closely with I to ensure that we widen both accessibility and awareness through those network . this statutory instrument be part of the Labour Government ' s work to support veteran , not only in term of democratic participation but in respect of the wide support that they need , in recognition of the contribution that they have make to our country and our security through their service in the armed force . there be also the wide commitment that the Government have make in put the armed force covenant fully into law . we be all justifiably proud of our long history of democracy , but we should never take it for grant . the addition of the veteran card to the list of document accept as identification at the polling station will help this important community to engage in the electoral process and exercise their democratic right . I hope member will agree that the regulation provide for some important change to our electoral rule , strengthen , widen and secure our democracy into the future , and I hope they will join I in support the veteran community . I be grateful for their contribution to the debate , and I be incredibly proud of the fact that it be this Government who have introduce these change . I commend the regulation to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Voter Identification ( Amendment of List of Specified Documents ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 October , be approve . Environmental Protection I beg to move , that the draft Environmental Protection ( single - use Vapes ) ( England ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 23 October , be approve . every person in this country have the right to walk down their street without stumble on a single - use vape that have be toss on to the pavement . they have the right to take their child to the park without their child pick up a shiny vape that have be cast aside in the playground . no driver should fear that their car tyre will explode if they drive over a single - use vape in the road , yet I be recently send a picture of just such a tyre explosion . what start out as a useful mean to stop adult smoking have become a menace on our street . almost three quarter of single - use vape be incorrectly dispose of . Material Focus estimate that 5 million vape be throw away each week — equivalent to eight vape a second , and four time as many as at this time last year . they have turn into a constant wave of waste and be wreak havoc , and we be leave to pick up the piece . when they be litter , they introduce plastic , nicotine salt , copper , cadmium , lead and lithium - ion battery into our environment . that harm our wildlife , our soil , our river and our stream . last year , 50 tonne of lithium — the amount need to power 5 , 000 electric vehicle battery — be discard into our environment . alternatively , vape end up be incorrectly put into black - bin household waste . at well , they either end up in landfill or be incinerate . at worst , they cause fire when they be crush in bin lorry . that risk harm to the public , refuse worker and firefighter . in September , a fire at a waste centre in Basildon be start by a lithium - ion battery — the sort that be find in vape . the fire spread across warehouse and set alight 15 heavy good vehicle . People be evacuate , and the fire service be on site for 24 hour a day for almost a week . we know that these product be design to appeal to child . accord to action on Smoking and Health ' s research , the rise in single - use vape have happen concurrently with an increase in young people vape . we must ban these harmful product , and I thank the hon . member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) for take step to introduce a ban early this year . his be the right action , and we will not delay . transition to a zero - waste economy be one of five priority on which my Department , as part of a mission - lead Government , will deliver to rebuild Britain . this ban be an important first step on that journey . before I turn to the detail of the legislation , I thank the Secondary Legislation Scrutiny Committee for its work . its report highlight several point of interest , particularly the link to youth vaping , which I have mention , and whether we will monitor product come to market follow the implementation of the propose ban . we will work closely with the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency to understand the type of product come to market , and we will continue to look at this in future . the Committee also highlight correspondence from Green Alliance , which support the ban but wish for early implementation and seek assurance on enforcement . we want to introduce the ban as soon as possible , but we must allow a minimal but reasonable transition for business to run down stock and adapt their business activity . this be why the ban will come into force on 1 June next year . effective enforcement be crucial , and we will work closely with enforcement agency to understand how good to support they . let I now turn to the detail of the legislation . the ban we be introduce use power under the Environmental Protection Act 1990 . part 1 set out the meaning of a single - use vape , which be a vape that be " not refillable and not rechargeable " . the ban apply to England only , but my excellent official have work closely with the devolved government , who be bring an equivalent legislation . we be grateful to our colleague in the devolved government for their collaboration to ensure that , from 1 June next year , there will be a UK - wide ban . part 2 and 3 of the legislation introduce offence and enforcement provision . enforcement of the ban in England will be carry out through local authority trading standard officer , and the power in the legislation have be develop in partnership with they . the regulation mean that illegal trader can be issue with an on - the - spot fine and that the product they be sell can be take away . it be also possible for local authority to reclaim the cost of investigate , and enforce , the regulation from the rogue trader . finally , part 4 of the legislation cover requirement for guidance and the need to review and evaluate the ban . the Minister have talk about the environmental impact of disposable vape , but what do she think about the environmental impact of the reusable vape device that be be sell ? the Government ' s own impact assessment suggest that by the year 2034 , there will be a total of 2 billion reusable vape device be sell . what impact do she think that will have on the environment , and how will that differ from the sale of disposable vape ? what we be try to do with this ban be to get rid of the vape that be not rechargeable and refillable . the vape that be both refillable and rechargeable will continue to be sell as a valuable aid to help adult stop smoke . the almost toy - like vape that we find litter in every street be the real problem , and I be sure that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be no different from mine in that regard . I will come back to he on that . on prediction about the future , we see yesterday in the newspaper that a pill have be develop to help smoker quit smoking , so who know where we will be in five year ' time . we can always guarantee that the future will be different from the past . let I conclude by say that vape can help adult to quit smoking , but single - use vape be a waste of our precious national resource . the sheer volume of they that we see on our street and the widespread harm that they cause must be stop , so I commend these regulation to the House . I call the shadow Minister , Dr Neil Hudson . it be an honour to be speak for the Opposition on this important motion on environmental protection . may I begin by thank the Government for lay this statutory instrument , which be originally put forward by the previous Conservative Government ? this House be at its good when we be unite in common humanity and work together across the House to pass legislation that will support and protect our precious environment , and also human and animal health . I be glad that the Government have agree with our measure in bring forward this ban on disposable vape . I be happy to say , therefore , that we , his Majesty ' s loyal opposition , will be support the passage of this important environmental statutory instrument . I thank all those who have make this statutory instrument possible , from Ministers and MPs on both side of the House to the charity , non - governmental organisation , parent , teacher and health professional who sound the alarm on the impact of disposable vape . this legislation be a targeted step to ensure environmental protection and to mitigate the risk pose by single - use disposable vaping product . to this end , we know that single - use vape pose a range of risk to our environment , to animal , both domestic and wild , and even to people — especially our young folk , as the Minister say . it be estimate that almost 5 million single - use vape be litter or throw away in general waste every week . the scale at which lithium - ion battery be be improperly dispose of through single - use vape be absolutely staggering . astonishingly , it be estimate that , each year , the lithium in disposable vape discard in this way be equivalent to the lithium in the battery of 1 , 200 electric vehicle or more . unfortunately , the number of single - use vape be litter or throw away each year be steeply rise . we know that the improper disposal of lithium - ion battery already pose a significant risk of serious fire and pollution . as the Minister say , we be see such litter in both urban and rural area , with vape carelessly throw to the wayside . we also know that the disposal of single - use vape can lead to plastic and toxic chemical leak into our natural environment and precious waterway . we can not overestimate the seriousness of this or the long - term danger that will result if we allow a steady or increase flow of these material into the environment . at a time when we be all concerned about the need to improve our waterway and river , it be vital that we tackle this very real threat . the improper disposal of single - use vape , which unfortunately occur in the majority of case , also pose risk to animal and wildlife that may potentially consume they . I declare a personal and professional interest as a veterinary surgeon and a pet owner . in fact , not long ago , when I be walk my young dog Poppy , she disappear into the undergrowth and come out with a brightly coloured , melon - flavour disposable vape in her mouth . fortunately , I be able to get the vape out of her mouth quickly , but I shudder to think what could have happen if Poppy have chew , crunch or swallow it , give that it contain a battery , toxic chemical and shatter plastic . I be sure the whole House will agree it be particularly concern that we be allow million of flavour , brightly coloured item contain incredibly harmful chemical to be litter , endanger the health of any creature that might ingest they . with that in mind , it be important to act , and the implementation date of 1 June 2025 should offer business time to adjust to the new measure . however , it be vital for the Government to clarify how they intend to tackle the disposal of exist stock that be not sell by June 2025 . therefore can the Minister assure the House that any unsold single - use vaping stock , as of the implantation date , will be collect and dispose of appropriately ? additionally , will the Government produce a plan to ensure proper disposal ? with this ban come into force , it be also essential that the illegal importation of single - use vape be target . there be extremely concern report of the importation of vape into this country that flout legal safety regulation on the number of puff and , potentially , the nicotine content . there be even report of vape that contain illicit or dangerous substance , as well as chemical such as lead and nickel . it be hugely concern to think that many of these single - use vape have be get into the hand of a large number of our under - 18 . advertisement on social medium , specifically design to entice young people with bright colour and appeal flavour such as bubble gum and cherry ice , be lure our young people into nicotine addiction and the risk of illicit substance . all this could have serious consequence for the physical and mental health of our young people . there be report of child have their sleep pattern disrupt , by set their alarm for 2 am or 3 be so that they can have a vape during the night to avoid withdrawal symptom in the morning , and student leave lesson , or even examination , because they simply can not last without the use of a vape . the statutory instrument specifically target the disposable vape that be afflict so many of our young people . the issue be not just disposable vape but illegal vape , of which as many as 120 million may be be sell each year . should we not concentrate on that ? these regulation deal only with legal vape , but should we not be more concerned about the environmental impact and other health impact of illegal vape ? we need to get rid of all disposable vape , legal or illegal . in fact , if any child be vape , that be illegal . they be get hold of vape around the law and people be exploit our young people . we still do not know the long - term consequence of vape for their physical and mental health , so we just have to get on with get rid of the single - use disposable vape . to be clear , we know that vaping have its part to play in help adult to quit tobacco smoking , but we owe it to our young people and other to tackle the unacceptable risk of the illicit market and of exist nicotine addiction , and not to create a new generation of addiction . on the risk of disposable vape be import for sale , will the Minister confirm what measure will be put in place to ensure border authority have the proper power and scope to ensure that there be no room for the creation of an illegal disposable vape import industry ? in addition , as part of that , will additional resource be allocate to our Border Force , so that the legislation will have the tooth it need to prevent potential illegal import of vape ? it be deeply important that the proper enforcement measure be in place , as we know how difficult it can sometimes be to enforce such ban . my hon . friend keep use the expression " potential illegal import " , but massive illegal import be already take place . the number of illegal import detect be a minute proportion of the actual number of illegal import that be come into the market . will he concentrate on the current issue relate to illegal import , instead of describe that issue as a " potential " ? I be well aware that there be illegal importation and we need to clamp down on they , but once the ban be in place , if single - use disposable vape be still be import into the country , then it will be illegal to put they on sale . I be aware of the point that my hon . friend make , but we need to crack on and get rid of disposable vape . will the Minister confirm what measure will be put in place to ensure full and proper enforcement of the ban ? will she reassure the House that the Government will monitor , on an ongoing basis , the performance of enforcement measure in prevent the sale and distribution of single - use vape ? in addition , will the Minister reassure the House that the Government will keep a watching brief on unscrupulous people try to create loophole in the ban by adapt , in a sham way , disposable vape to look like reusable , refillable or rechargeable one ? I welcome the Minister ' s comment about the devolved administration , but with this England - only legislation , and with similar version of the regulation likely to be approve in Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland in the come month , will the Government assure the House that discussion be set in place with the devolved administration on specific timing , so that we do not inadvertently create the potential for disposable vape tourism in different part of the United Kingdom ? in closing , as I say in my opening remark , we will be support this measure . while I hope the Minister can provide clarity on the question I have pose , I thank the Government for bring forward this conservative measure . I now call Lloyd Hatton to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak during today ' s important debate . I wish to begin by take the opportunity to thank my constituent for choose change and put their trust in I at the ballot box this summer . this be indeed a " change " election . the last time that a Labour MP for South Dorset stand here and make his maiden speech , I be just six year old . but my labour predecessor — Lord Knight — do not waste any time win my support . as the local MP , Lord Knight relentlessly fight for my community , and he leave behind a legacy of which we can all be proud . his success include rebuild my dilapidated primary school and then rebuild my secondary school as well . Lord Knight be also at the heart of the campaign to win the 2012 summer olympic game bid , with Weymouth and Portland proudly host the sailing event . I consider myself very fortunate to have one of my predecessor work just along the corridor in the other place . this Palace of Westminster be an ancient and sometimes mysterious workplace , so I will always be grateful for my Lord Knight in shine armour just around the corner . I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Richard Drax . as our MP , his commitment to our armed force community be second to none . the constituency may have change hand , but I fully intend to continue his work champion our armed force . if I may , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would also like to pay tribute to another former Member of this House , Baroness Hodge . many member will , like I , have work alongside Baroness Hodge . work with she be certainly an unforgettable experience . " Relentless " , " feisty " , " ferocious " , " attack dog " — these be just some of the term bandy around the staffroom at Amazon headquarters after only the brief of cross - examination by Baroness Hodge , and with good reason . she exemplify how to be an effective and tenacious change - maker in Parliament . for more than a decade , she have be the scourge of tax - dodger and kleptocrat , white - collar criminal and oligarch alike . it be a pleasure to work alongside she in the battle against dirty money and economic crime . I look forward to continue her important work , both in this place and on the Public Accounts Committee . before I take member on a walk tour of my constituency , I would just like to say thank you to the people who get I here . my parent , my wide family , my friend and my partner have always have my back . they have always support my endeavour , and they have give so much to ensure that every opportunity be make available to I . thank you . there be something deeply personal about be able to represent your home . it be an honour to be able represent my friend , my family , my neighbour and my former classmate . in the year ahead , I look forward to rigorously stand up for all the community that make up South Dorset . Madam Deputy Speaker , wherever you look across my constituency , a strong sense of community and local pride be unmissable . start our stroll in the east of my constituency , we will find Studland and then Swanage , a small , charming seaside town . the people of Swanage have much to be proud of , include the legacy of one Trevor Chadwick . Trevor be a public - spirited man , a local schoolteacher and a lifeboat volunteer . in 1939 , he join Sir Nicholas Winton to assemble the Prague Kindertransport . despite the clear danger face he , Trevor go to Prague to help rescue 669 child from the Nazi regime , yet , much like Sir Nicholas Winton , Trevor do not seek praise or recognition for his heroism , and for many year his work go unmarked . there now stand a statue in Swanage mark his proud legacy . walk past it just the other day , I be remind of the quiet selflessness and compassion that sit at the heart of all our community . we can all learn from his example . the town of Swanage be also rightly proud of its many independent business , its award - win beach and its essential community hospital . without these institution , the town would be lose , so I look forward to advocate for all three at every opportunity . now , Madam Deputy Speaker , move west on our walk along the coastline of my constituency , you be spoil . whatever other member might claim , I know that my constituency truly be the most impressive , the most spectacular , and the most charming . if you do not believe I , just ask UNESCO . my constituency be the proud home of the Jurassic coast : St Aldhelm ' s Head , Chapman ' s Pool , Bacon Hole , Lulworth Cove , durdle Door and Ringstead bay be all geological gem dot along the coast . Most hon . member have probably already visit this part of my constituency , either on a romantic weekend away , a summer holiday or an ill - fated geography field trip many moon ago . either way , all who visit the Jurassic coast leave with lifelong memory . rural community such as Corfe , Worth Matravers , Langton Matravers , Winfrith and Wool be all proud to call the Jurassic coast our back garden . I will do all I can to defend , preserve and enhance that unique landscape . amble further west , we arrive at the friendly seaside town of Weymouth . Weymouth and nearby Portland be a key departure point for the Dunkirk evacuation and , later , the D - day landing . my home town be a generous home to soldier , sailor and airman during the second world war . in the month prior to D - day , Weymouth host thousand of british and ally force as they prepare for the liberation of Europe . in Weymouth we do not easily forget the importance of those D - day landing , and our town be proud of the role that we play in turn the tide against fascism . in a world that often feel insecure and rive by conflict , our community will always remember the sacrifice make to defend democracy and freedom . Weymouth also remain proud of a local parliamentarian , Sir Thomas Fowell Buxton . in the early 19th century he be a Member of Parliament for Weymouth and a lead member of the abolitionist movement . alongside William Wilberforce , Buxton lead effort to abolish slavery throughout the british empire . wherever I go in Weymouth , there be quiet reminder of that important figure and the role he play in make the world a more civilised place . we be proud of his legacy and I believe we be a kind and more caring community because of it . Weymouth be a fantastic place to call home , but that do not mean our town be without its challenge . grow up there the message I too often hear be that to get on , you have to get out . I reject that outlook altogether . I be proud to call Weymouth home and I will do everything I can to attract the job , investment and opportunity that every young person there deserve . arrive at the westward end of our walk through my constituency , we find the Isle of Portland , but we do not need to visit Portland to appreciate its significance . part of this Palace of Westminster be build use Portland limestone . the Cenotaph and Whitehall be also construct use that stone , as be the United Nations headquarter and much of Buckingham Palace . we be proud that a part of Portland can always be find in the corridor of power , yet Westminster and Whitehall can too often feel remote and far remove from life on the island . I will always stand up for the proud community live in Portland , and I will do what I can to shrink the gap between community and the corridor of power . I have begin by work with the Government to shut down the Bibby Stockholm barge , and I will continue by challenge proposal to build an incinerator and by campaign for improved healthcare and much - need green investment . well , there you have it , Madam Deputy Speaker : a short ramble across South Dorset , all enjoy from the comfort of these green Benches . the countryside and coastline , the town and village that make up my constituency be brim with pride and with strong community . it be an immeasurable honour to represent each and every one of they , and I shall seek to serve they first and foremost in this House . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) on his excellent maiden speech ; I have indeed enjoy many family holiday in his constituency . I be pleased that we be have this debate today and that the Liberal Democrats be support this measure . we have be call for action on single - use vape for some time . single - use or disposable vape be a menace and the evidence for ban they be clear and overwhelming . it be staggering that each week more than 5 million disposable vape be discard in the UK , pose significant environmental and public health challenge and litter our street , countryside and beach . the device , which be difficult to recycle because of their lithium - ion battery , be a grow threat to wildlife and waterway . it be crucial that our waterway , include the River Itchen , the rare chalk stream that run through my Eastleigh constituency , be protect . the Rivers Trust have find that the electric component in disposable vape release chemical and heavy metal as they degrade , severely threaten life in our river . as the Minister highlight , battery can , when improperly dispose of , cause fire in waste and refuse lorry , which put additional strain on local service and pose safety risk . together , the disposable vape discard in a year could provide enough lithium to power over 5 , 000 electric car . the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals have raise serious concern about the impact of carelessly discard disposable vape on animal welfare , as the risk of ingestion or habitat disruption pose a risk to wildlife . although vape have an important role to play in smoking cessation , single - use vape present unique risk for child and young people . market with colourful packaging and a choice of flavour , and at far low price than traditional cigarette , they be particularly appeal to under - 18 . accord to public health charity Action on Smoking and Health , 18 % of 11 to 17 - year - old have try disposable vape . I hope that the Government will also address the concern of the Mental Health Foundation that those with mental health issue be more likely to use disposable vape . the trust that provide they with care , include cessation service , should be properly support in the transition . we face an escalate crisis that affect our planet and the next generation . young people be our future and we owe they swift and meaningful action . the Liberal Democrats support the measure , but we hope that the Government will ensure that the ban be effective and that manufacturer and retailer will play their part . there must be robust regulation and investment in cessation service , and the health of our community must be prioritise . I hope that the Government will take this opportunity to address these concern with the urgency that they demand , to ensure a future that protect the health and wellbeing of young people and preserve our environment . may I say what an honour it be to hear the maiden speech of my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) , and how proud he be to represent his home constituency ? I wish he all the good in his parliamentary career . vaping remain the most effective tool that the UK have to help smoker to quit . recent datum from ASH show that in the last five year , 2 . 7 million hard smoker have use vaping as a mean of quitting . disposable vape have play a vital role in support smoker transition to a less harmful , accessible and affordable entry - level product . without such product , there be a real risk that few smoker will decide to try vaping as an aid to quit . there be important concern about the environmental impact of single - use vape and their accessibility to child , as have already be mention , but the Government will need to be prepare for the inevitable increase in availability of black - market product that be certain to come about because of the ban . an increase vaping black market will pose a great risk to the environment and to child ' s health . current law already prohibit the sale of vape to those under 18 , and require adherence to environmental regulation , but their enforcement have be minimal . strong enforcement of the exist regulation could effectively address the issue without ban disposable vape outright . the Government have make the right decision in progress with a licensing scheme , but the fine for breach the rule must be high than £ 200 per offence . the UK Vaping Industry Association have repeatedly call for fine of up to £ 10 , 000 , which would help to deter rogue trader from sell product to child , and illegal product more generally . in essence , this be not a ban on disposable ; it be a ban on legal and compliant disposable . illicit disposable , which contain goodness know what , will continue to be sell , and will even proliferate in popularity , after the ban . demand for multi - tank vape product have be grow since the UK - wide disposable vape ban be first propose in January of this year . the regulation appear to ban very high puff - count device , but it be likely that from next June , irresponsible manufacturer from overseas will innovate to sidestep that ban ; they may possibly make their mesh coil replaceable , so they can continue to sell those product . it would be well for the Government to legislate for " one device , one tank " . if the Minister can not be more explicit about device in these regulation , I hope that the Government will address those point in the Tobacco and Vapes Bill . as I say , we must be mindful that vape have be the most effective tool in help smoker quit . I hope we can take some heed of that fact and make the regulation work , so that the remain 6 million smoker in this country move away from cigarette , most likely with the help of vaping . it be a pleasure to follow the maiden speech of the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) . it be an excellent maiden speech — very interesting — and his constituency sound lovely . indeed , it sound almost as lovely as Sleaford and North Hykeham , but not quite . I welcome he to his place , and hope he enjoy his time in the House . I also welcome the regulation . some people say that ten - minute rule Bills never become legislation , but today , mine will . on 8 February 2023 , I introduce the Disposable Electronic Cigarettes ( prohibition of Sale ) Bill . I put on record my thank for the support of my hon . friend the Member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) , and the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , for Barnsley North ( Dan Jarvis ) , for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) and for Blaydon and Consett ( Liz Twist ) , as well as many former member who support that Bill . there be then a consultation that show that the measure in the Bill have broad support in the country . it show that at that point , 70 % of the public support those measure — a high figure . the Conservative Government then introduce the Environmental Protection ( single - use Vapes ) ( England ) Regulations 2024 , which sadly do not pass through wash - up before the general election and therefore do not become law . I be delighted that the current Government be bring these measure forward , but disappoint that they will not come into effect until June , although I understand the reason that the Minister have give . there be essentially two reason why this legislation be very important : the protection of child , and the protection of our natural environment . when it come to protect child , I declare an interest — well , three interest as the mother of three child , but also an interest as a child ' s doctor in the NHS . as have be say , when vape be introduce , it be claim that they be a " stop smoke " device . I would argue that they be introduce as an alternative addiction , but they certainly be not suitable for child . the chief medical officer have clearly state on a number of occasion that vape may be well than smoking , but those who be not smoker should avoid use they at all . unfortunately , child have be attract to these device . it be my view that in some case , the vaping industry have make they deliberately more attractive to child . I do not see why a middle - aged smoker wish to quit would need a unicorn - flavour vape , or one shape like SpongeBob SquarePants or a teddy bear . they be cheap , disposable , and in my view clearly design to attract child , which they certainly have do . this risk create a whole generation of nicotine addict , and the long - term effect of these device be unknown . they be cause disruption in school — eight child at a Sleaford school in my constituency have collapse follow the inhalation of certain vape . the protection of the natural environment be important . when I introduce my ten - minute rule Bill , I mention in my speech that 1 . 3 million of these device be be discard a week . the late figure be 5 million , and even that figure be become slightly out of date . they be very difficult to recycle , and if they be discard as litter , they create toxic waste that pollute our soil , river and stream . if they be crush in a bin lorry , they can cause fire , and have indeed do so . do the hon . Lady agree that there be a particular issue with the discarding of single - use vape in our town centre ? Most of our council do not have enough money to keep town centre clean ; in Cheltenham , I believe the bill be in excess of £ 1 million per year . there be a real issue there , not just about the environment , but about public sector finance at the local level . I understand the hon . member ' s point , but the party responsible for put an item in the bin be not the council , but the person who have it in their hand . People who drop litter should take responsibility . they should not be do so in the first place . when I work with the River Slea clean - up project a year ago , we pick up a lot of these device from the riverside and the river itself . they be clearly a danger to the environment and should not be discard . my hon . friend the Member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) talk about his dog Poppy . he have recount that story to I before , and it horrify I , as a dog owner , that any animal could hurt themselves so badly with a vape . we also hear the Minister talk about tyre explode ; goodness know what would happen if a poor dog or another animal crush one of these thing in their mouth , so I be pleased that they be be ban . one of the challenge with this legislation be define disposable vape . the Government have define they as one that be not refillable and rechargeable . in an ideal world , the industry would accept that , produce the refillable vape it currently produce and move on . however , there be a great financial interest in these product , and I be concerned that the industry will try to find workaround and get - around to create a nominally reusable , but practically not terribly reusable , product at a price point that mean it will be discard . that would continue the problem , so I ask the Minister to keep these product under review , look carefully for sign of these issue in the way that vape be manufacture , and legislate if necessary . the Minister talk about those involve in enforcement be give the resource they need , so will she tell we how much have be budget and allocate for enforcement of the new rule ? enforcement often fall to local council ' public protection department . as a councillor in West Berkshire , I lead on public protection , and our cupboard be full of illegal vape that we have seize . I absolutely support the call for resource , but we must make sure that they be deliver to local council , so that they can employ more enforcement officer . those officer can get into shop , and into the back of those shop , which be where the illegal vape be often store , while the legal vape be in the shop window . do the hon . Lady agree that it be important to get that funding to local enforcement team ? I certainly do . one benefit of the ban on disposable vape be that regardless of whether or not a disposable vape be currently illegal on the basis of its constitution and content , it will now be illegal . it will be much easy to identify illegal vape , because all disposable version will be illegal . I also agree that we must get the money to council to do these thing , but employ a new enforcement officer will of course now cost more money . the Government ' s raising of national insurance contribution and lowering of the threshold at which they be pay will affect council up and down the country . I do not think the Government have really consider the direct cost to public sector employer , or the knock - on effect where service be contract out and provide by a third party — a private company or a charity . that third party will , no doubt , pass the cost on to the council . that be a huge concern . this legislation be the start of create an overall package to control vaping and protect our child and our natural environment . I welcome it , and I will support it today . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) , who have bring a lot of knowledge to the debate . I want to begin by refer to the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) . the last time I be this close to he be early in July , before polling day , when I be stand in a pub garden overlook Chesil beach with my good friend Richard Drax . I very much enjoy listen to his tribute to Richard Drax , who be not only a good friend of mine , but a great servant of democracy . he contribute enormously to the successful campaign to leave the European Union , after which he be a diligent member of the European Scrutiny Committee . he be also extremely active on what be his great love : try to ensure that we maintain strong defence in our country , and he use his military background to great effect in debate . however , I have to tell the hon . Gentleman that he be lucky to be here . I have every confidence that , have it not be for the previous Government ' s intransigence over the Bibby Stockholm , Richard Drax would still have be in this House , so it be with mixed feeling that I listen to what the hon . Gentleman have to say , but I extend a warm welcome to he . I be sure that he and I will do our good to ensure that Dorset continue to improve its provision of good - quality service to all its citizen . turn to the subject of the debate , it come as a bit of a disappointment that neither the Minister nor my hon . friend the Member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) refer much to the unintended health consequence of outlaw disposable vape . there be already a real problem with illegal disposable vape — it be estimate that probably one third of vape be illegal . those be already bad for the environment , but what will the measure do to address that problem ? not very much , I fear . as I say , it be estimate that some 360 million disposable vape get on to the market in the United Kingdom in 2023 . I have a briefing from british American Tobacco , which highlight that 4 . 5 million illegal vape be seize at the border by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs in 2023 . the gap between the 4 . 5 million illegal vape seize , and the 360 million estimate to be in circulation , highlight the gravity and extent of the problem , particularly when we extrapolate into the future ; the number of illegal vape could be as high as 1 billion by 2030 . that be an enormous amount of income for people engage in black market trade , people smuggling , and other illicit activity . do my hon . friend accept that it be quite difficult for the consumer to establish which vape be illegal and which be not ? one may have think that go into a reputable supermarket to buy such a product be a surefire way of ensure that it be safe , but we have hear example of major supermarket sell a well know brand of vape that have more in they than be legally allow . if we ban disposable vape , it will become very clear : all disposable one will be illegal . the information I have about the extent of illegal vape in the marketplace come from the Government . in their impact assessment for the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , which will be debate in the next fortnight , the Government accept that about 30 % of the market be illegal , and that be where I get my figure . my hon . friend refer to supermarket . I be not suggest that there be any illegal activity in supermarket or among responsible retailer . my point be that there have be example of supermarket unknowingly sell vape that do not meet requirement , and it be difficult for a consumer who put a disposable vape in each hand to identify which be allow and which be not . as a result of the new regulation , they will be able to tell , because both will not be allow . I be not sure that will help much . my hon . friend refer to the packaging of vape , but the number of vape describe as refillable or reusable be project to increase exponentially over the next several year . the question I ask — I do not really get an answer from the Minister — be what the impact will be of all those refillable or reusable vape on the environment . the same issue to do with what go into the manufacture of vape apply to both disposable and reusable vape . why would we need to have 2 billion reusable vape be sell by 2034 if they be not be dispose of ? just because they be describe as reusable do not mean that they can not be dispose of after one use . my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham make the point that we need to be wary of how the Chinese , who be the lead manufacturer and exporter in this field , may well adapt their product to try to circumvent these regulation . in any event , what they and other manufacturer be produce be a cost on the environment , in the sense that they be use scarce resource . let we not be naive : the fact that something be reusable do not mean it be a permanent fixture . for example , in my parent ' day , they use to smoke cigarette through a filter that they hold . even those filter be not permanent . I remember many occasion on which my parent say that they have to get rid of the filter and replace it with another . do not let we be naive and think that this enormously large number of reusable vape device that be project to be sell in 2034 will not end up in landfill . I be interested to know : be my hon . friend try to argue that the Government should have go far and ban all vape , include those that can be refill ? I be not suggest that ; I be refer to the impact assessment . the Minister , in respond to my intervention early , refer to the statement make yesterday to the effect that a new magic pill will be available on the NHS to enable people to be wean off smoking and , in particular , the nicotine effect of smoking . when bring that forward , the Government say that the new pill would be as effective as vape . they do not suggest it would be more effective , but as effective , thereby recognise the important role that vaping have in promote public health . these regulation be be bring forward on the basis of the environmental benefit that will flow from they , but let we be clear that there be little provision for enforcement . reference have be make to the additional burden on local authority . paragraph 183 of the regulatory impact assessment state : " there will be cost associate with inspection and law enforcement service to support the ban . Trading Standards Authorities ( TSAs ) would be well place to enforce the ban , and work will be undertake with la to establish the most effective and efficient way of enforcement . " the impact assessment go on to calculate that the enforcement cost will be low , because the assumption be " as per Better Regulation guidance to assume 100 % compliance by business . " if we make that assumption — in my submission , it be a false one — it can lead to the acceptance of figure from the Government that no additional cost will arise from enforce these new regulation . I think that be a load of nonsense . the hon . Gentleman be make a number of interesting point , but it be not yet clear to I whether he be in favour of the banning of single - use vape , or the banning of all vape , or not . it would be instructive if we all understand a little more of what he be try to get at in the point he be make , as interesting as they all be . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for listen to the point that I have be make . they can be sum up as : smoking cost live ; vape save life . therefore , if we can encourage more people to vape rather than smoke , that be to the benefit of public health and the individual affect , as well as assist those who suffer as a result of secondary smoking or passive smoking . the consequence , which be accept by the Government in their impact assessment , be that by take these measure against single - use vape , quite a lot of people who currently use they will go back to smoking . vape have a 65 % success rate in enable people to quit smoking . the chief executive of Action on Smoking and Health say that " scare story " about young people vape could be cause the misconception among adult smoker that vaping be at least as risky as smoking . we know that it be not . compliant vape do not contain tobacco and do not produce smoke , and vape aerosol do not contain the harmful chemical find in tobacco smoke . why be the Government therefore propose to introduce regulation , which , on their own figure , will result in about 26 % of people go from vape back to tobacco product ? my hon . friend be refer to an important issue . I know that he be concerned about personal responsibility and people ' s ability to make their own choice . the Government face something of a choice between the protection of an adult — a former smoker who be now vape , who will be present with a choice of go back to smoking , stop vaping or use a reusable vape — and the protection of child . surely the protection of child be more important , as adult be free to make their own choice about what they wish to do , as long as it be an informed choice . there be already vape among child . as the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) say , child can not buy vape and should not be use they , but if child be go to choose between vaping and smoking , it be well that they should go for vape rather than smoking . one of the unintended consequence that may flow from the regulation be that , instead of use vaping product , an increase number of child will go back to smoke behind the bike shed , or whatever the modern equivalent be . I should declare an interest as a vaper . I smoke until my wife be due to have our first son and use vape to give up cigarette . I have make my own vape juice — I know exactly what be go into it — and have also use disposable vape . I now use a reusable vape . a disposable vape be about £ 6 . 99 a unit — or two for a tenner ; something like that — whereas my monthly bill with my reusable vape be about £ 35 , so it be cheap for I to use a reusable vape than disposable , and I can now get the same flavour in a reusable vape as I could in a disposable vape . I be not sure that I agree with the hon . member on the correlation between remove disposable vape and the prevalence of child smoke , because nowadays they could use a reusable vape and get the same flavour as in a disposable vape . as I understand it , a reusable vape may cost as little as £ 10 , so let we see what happen . however , the Government ' s own impact assessment on page 40 expect that 26 % of current smoker will revert to smoking or alternative non - vape product . the figure for recent ex - smoker be that 3 % will revert to smoking or alternative non - vape product . those two add together show that 29 % of current vaper will not transition to reusable vape . the figure say that 24 % of current smoker will transition to reusable vape . slightly few will do so , therefore , than will revert to smoking or alternative non - vape product . it be encourage that 7 % of recent ex - smoker will transition to reusable vape , whereas only 3 % will revert to smoking or alternative non - vape product . that be significant , but I be concern about the 29 % of current vaper who will be drive back to smoking . be that a good thing for they or for public health ? I do not think that it be . the hon . member for Newbury ( Mr Dillon ) refer to his background as a smoker and now a vaper . I have to admit to have never smoke or vape , so I come to this debate with an enormous amount of wisdom and experience on the subject . I be drive by the fact that both my parent smoke very heavily as a result of their experience in the war — when people be not fight the Germans , there be not much else to do other than smoke . that be very bad for my parent ' health , as it be for so many people of that generation . I do not wish to encourage people to smoke , but the impact assessment make no reference to the benefit that will accrue to the tobacco company and the Exchequer from the increase number of people who will smoke as a direct result of the implementation of the regulation . that be a serious omission . early , some people say that there be a shortage of information available on this subject . I think that this debate be inhibit , as the one that we be to have on the Bill that will come forward in the next fortnight will be , by the Government ' s extraordinary interpretation of the World Health Organisation framework convention on tobacco control , particularly article 5 . 3 , which seek to ensure that interaction between the tobacco industry and policymaker be conduct transparently . we be all in favour of that , but the article do not apply to interaction between the vaping industry and policymaker regard vape regulation . I have be tell , however , by Imperial Brands , I think british American Tobacco and other that they have be unable to access Government Ministers or official because Ministers and official be falsely interpret the framework convention as prohibit such engagement . it specifically do not inhibit or prevent such engagement . I think that it be probably the fault of the Government that , as a consequence , they be not as well informed about the issue as they could and should be . article 5 . 3 do not preclude policymaker , elect or unelecte , from engage with the tobacco industry or associated party . let we have open dialogue about this , instead of a situation where , as I understand it from talk to somebody from Imperial Brands , effort by that company to engage with Government official and Ministers be reject on the ground that such engagement would be inconsistent with the WHO framework convention . it would not be inconsistent with it . I hope that one positive thing to come out of the debate will be that the Government will rethink their total lack of engagement with the manufacturer of vape product . we have some really good manufacturer of vape product base in this country . why be we try to put they out of business and encourage chinese manufacturer to run rampant in our marketplace , as they be do with increase effect ? my plea to the Government , which I hope the Minister will address , be to engage with tobacco manufacturer and company such as Imperial Brands that be interested in promote smoking alternative and vaping . all the projection be that the amount of vaping go on in this country will increase significantly . that be fine , but please can we try to ensure that we do not drive people back to smoking ? that would be really bad for our public health and the national health service . I despair that no one from any of the three Front Benches have address the unintended consequence of these regulation on public health . let I begin by say how much I enjoy listen to that interesting debate . I welcome the hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) to his place in his new role in the shadow DEFRA team . I send our good wish to Poppy the dog , after her close encounter with a vape of a disposable kind . I hope that this legislation avoid such encounter in future . I thank the hon . member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) for her generous speech in support of this measure . I also welcome my hon . friend the Member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) to his place . there be a chuckle of recognition around the Chamber when we be take on a ramble of his constituency , through the geological and the geographical . he mention the big - hearted people from his gorgeous part of the world . it be my privilege to open a section of the coastal path there in a previous role . I know that he will continue the work of Margaret Hodge in this place in his role on the Public Accounts Committee , and I be sure that his constituent be delighted to have one of their local son represent they . I be really pleased to hear about his passion for bring job and growth to his area . let I address some of the issue raise . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) . as a paediatrician , she be uniquely place to warn of the danger of these product . I have not come across a SpongeBob SquarePants vape yet , but who know what the future hold . I be very distressed to hear of the incident at her local school , where eight child collapse — I wish those young people and their family well — but it be a striking reminder of the danger pose particularly by illegal product , as mention by the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) . let I talk a little about recycling and producer responsibility for pay the cost . we know that there be no such place as " away " . these product can not be put into local river ; they will always turn up . they will always bleed into the environment , and everything that we do to the environment we eventually do to ourselves . it be important that those responsible for put vape on the market be accountable for their disposal . a consultation on reform the producer responsibility system for waste electrical be hold under the previous Government at the end of 2023 . we be consider the response , but we note near unanimous support for the proposal to create a new category of electrical equipment specifically for vape in the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2013 . that would ensure that producer of vape be properly fund the collection and treatment of those product when they reach the end of their life . we recognise the importance of take action to ensure that the cost of recycle these product be bear by those who make they , and we will outline our next step on this in due course . to answer the question raise by the hon . member for Epping Forest on monitor the ban and its impact , include in devolved government , we will monitor the impact of the ban , and we will share datum and intelligence from Border Force , trading standard and all four nation to ensure effective implementation and that these regulation come in at the same time , so that we do not create an unfortunate internal market . on disposal of exist stock , the six - month period be to help responsible and reputable business — when we regulate , we expect business to obey the law of the land , and assume that most people will do so . the period will help ensure that business do not have masse of stock to dispose of . unsold stock will become waste electronic and should therefore be dispose of via route that avoid the black bin . vape present challenge to recycle , so we need to stem the flow by target those that be design to be use only a small number of time . reusable vape be part of a wide shift to the circular economy . I have some sympathy with the hon . member for Christchurch on the issue of reusable , refillable — and reusable and refillable . we be try our good not to create loophole for creative business to get around . we have see more reusable product come on to the market in anticipation of the ban . we will promote the ban to improve awareness both for the public and retailer . we encourage shop to stop purchase single - use vape and to run down their current stock . we be see more vape bin in supermarket , high street retailer and garage follow the change to take - back requirement that be bring in early this year . that will support people to dispose of vape product responsibly , keep they off the street and out of the bin . the regulation will be subject to regular review , which be set out in legislation . we will have a review of enforcement and civil sanction within three year , and a post - implementation review at least every five year . we be currently collect baseline datum on the wholesaler and retailer of single - use vape in England to support future assessment . the Department of Health and Social Care monitor current rate of smoking and vape through various survey , include the periodic " smoking , Drinking and Drug Use among Young People " survey and the Action on Smoking and Health annual survey . we will use both to monitor the impact on people . on import , if vape be discover at port then Border Force can retain the product and alert the local authority ' s trading standard officer . if there be evidence that great intervention be need at the border , we will not hesitate to act . do the Minister not share my concern ? I understand that only one in 3 , 000 container come into a port like Southampton be inspect . it only need one container to get through and there might be ten of million of pound - worth of vape in one container . I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . a lot of public service have be run down over the past 14 year . in the Budget , there be an investment of £ 75 million in border security command to crack down on organise crime . gang often operate in multiple sector of the economy . we need time for this new approach to intelligence gathering and sharing to bed in . will the Minister give way ? can I make some progress ? I be just conscious of time . I be very happy to take intervention towards the end , because I might have answer any question in advance . single - use vape be one form of illicit vape . the Government be plan to introduce other piece of vape legislation under the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , as well as the vaping product duty , as part of a cross - Government approach , so we will look at these thing in future and focus on intelligence sharing between Border Force , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs and trading standard . enforcement be critical to effectiveness . we will work closely with the DHSC and the relevant enforcement body , but I do take on board what the hon . member for Christchurch say about size and number of vape . I pick up an illegal vape on the street outside my home . it be rechargeable but not refillable , and have too many puff in it to be legal . for those of we who be not vaper , it be a whole world of complexity . I be certainly on a steep learning curve . the legislation have be draft to address fear that manufacturer could circumvent the ban , for example by add a usb port to the end of a single - use device and call it reusable , but a manufacturer who adhere to these regulation will have produce a reusable vape . that require battery that can be recharge , a tank that can be refill or pod that can be replace , and a coil — the part of the vape that burn out with use — that can also be replace . in that respect , we be go far than other country such as France and Belgium . my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) express concern about the health impact . we know that tobacco be a harmful product and be responsible for one in four of all cancer death , kill up to two third of its long - term user . the Government be create the first smokefree generation , so that child turn 15 this year , or young , can never be legally sell tobacco , while not prevent anyone who currently smoke legally from be able to do so . the ban apply not to all vape , but just to those that harm the environment . there will still be easy - to - use product on the market to help adult stop smoke . the hon . member for Christchurch mention 29 % of user revert to smoking follow the ban , but it be incorrect to suggest that it will cause a surge in smoking rate . as state in the assessment , we expect most single - use vape user to stop smoke or to switch to reusable vape or non - vape product , include nicotine replacement therapy such as nicotine patch and gum . the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , recently introduce by the Government , take strong action to strengthen enforcement on illegal vape , include new fix - penalty notice and new licensing and registration power , which will act as a deterrent and empower trading standard to act more quickly against illegitimate producer and retailer . in the first instance , a £ 200 fix penalty notice will be issue , and alongside that a stop notice may be issue order the business or individual to cease the illegal activity . if it be not comply with , an individual will be guilty of an offence and liable for an unlimited fine , or imprisonment of up to six month . the Budget provide for a £ 70 million investment in local authority - lead stop smoke service , so I hope that the Swap to stop scheme will continue to help adult smoker to ditch their cigarette for a free vape starter kit . the impact assessment have be refer to repeatedly during the debate . I understand that it refer to this piece of legislation only , and not to the wide impact of other measure that the Government have propose , or that have not complete their parliamentary process . be that correct ? will an assessment of the effect not need to be do in the round , rather than apply to a specific piece of legislation that be only part of a wide plan to tackle youth vaping ? my understanding be that the assessment relate to this piece of legislation — I see my official nod vigorously in the Box — but if there be any further question that the hon . Lady would like to ask I follow the debate , I shall be only too happy to respond to she in person . I hope that I have cover most of the comment and question from colleague . we be ban a product that be design almost as a toy , a pocket - money product at pocket - money price that be intend to appeal to those under 18 . this legislation be need to stop the continue misuse of critical resource and harm to our environment , as well as to support wide measure across government to tackle the increase in youth vaping , and be widely back by the vast majority of the public and our stakeholder . I trust that member understand and accept the need for the regulation , and I commend they to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Environmental Protection ( single - use Vapes ) ( England ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 23 October , be approve . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at this day ' s sit , notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 16 ( 1 ) ( proceeding under an Act or on European Union document ) , proceeding on the Motions in the name of Secretary Jonathan Reynolds relate to Export and Investment Guarantees shall be bring to a conclusion not later than 90 minute after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; the Speaker shall then put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on those Motions ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) export and investment Guarantees we now come to the three motion on export and investment guarantee . I will call the Minister to move the first motion and to speak to all three motion together . at the end of the debate , I will put the question on the first motion and we will then take the remain two motion formally . I beg to move , that the draft Export and Investment Guarantees ( Limit on Exports and Insurance Commitments ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 14 October , be approve . with this we will take the follow motion : that the draft Export and Investment Guarantees ( Limit on Exports and Insurance Commitments ) ( no . 2 ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 14 October , be approve . that the draft Export and Investment Guarantees ( Limit on Exports and Insurance Commitments ) ( no . 3 ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 14 October , be approve . these order be technical in nature and relate to the capacity of UK Export Finance — which be the operate name of the Export Credits Guarantee Department , the UK ' s export credit agency — to support current and prospective exporter . as hon . and right hon . member will know , UK Export Finance have a mandate to support UK exporter with finance and insurance , help they to compete internationally . UK Export Finance , or UKEF for short , be establish more than 100 year ago and be the world ' s old export credit agency . its support have prove crucial to british exporter throughout its existence . UKEF help exporter to win international contract , to fulfil export order , to create job and to get pay . last year it provide £ 8 . 8 billion in finance to support UK exporter , and support up to 41 , 000 job around the UK as a result . some 88 % of the business it support last year be small and medium - sized enterprise . UKEF provide its finance at no net cost to the taxpayer ; in fact , it generate a return for the Exchequer , with £ 705 million return to the Treasury over the last three year . the Export and Investment Guarantees Act 1991 , as amend in 2015 , confer power on the Secretary of State to provide finance that be conducive to export , and to provide insurance in connection with overseas investment . those power be exercise and perform through UKEF . subject to some limited exception , section 6 ( 1 ) of the Act impose a limit on the aggregate amount of financial commitment that can be make under those power — in other word , the total size of UKEF ' s financial portfolio . at present , the limit stand at 67 . 7 billion , express in special drawing right . special drawing right be an accounting unit for international transaction and be create by the International Monetary Fund ; their value be base on a grouping of five major currency , include pound sterling , the US dollar and the euro . the sum equate to approximately £ 70 billion at today ' s exchange rate . why be we seek an increase ? well , the current limit have be in place since 2015 , and UK Export Finance ' s portfolio size be now draw close to it . be UKEF to reach its limit , it would have to pause its vital financing activity , which , in turn , would cut off its support to prospective exporter . I should note that , in practice , the size of UKEF ' s portfolio be subject to a limit set by the Treasury . this limit , call the maximum commitment limit , must be low than the statutory limit set out in legislation . I be therefore propose these statutory instrument to increase the commitment limit in section 6 ( 1 ) , and to avoid the future risk of have to turn away application for ukef support . section 6 of the Act enable the Secretary of State , by order , to far increase the limit by up to 5 billion SDR . the power to make such an order may be exercise on up to three occasion and have not be use before . I be therefore seek approval of these three order together , which would allow we to increase ukef ' s statutory commitment limit by 5 billion SDR per order , for a total of 15 billion SDR . inflation since the limit be last amend and the increase transaction size that the Department be support mean that the Department be now approach that legal limit . lay these si together be about future - proof ukef and give it sufficient legal capacity to provide certainty for its customer . again , it be a decision for Treasury Ministers to then confirm the actual commitment limit under which the Department operate . after they have come into force , the three instrument take together will increase the commitment limit to 82 . 7 billion special drawing right , which convert to around £ 84 billion pound at today ' s exchange rate . UK Export Finance be deliver an ambitious five - year business plan that align with this Government ' s mission , support growth and prosperity for UK exporter and their community across the country , and do so at no net cost to the taxpayer , but its ability to do so will be at risk without the additional legal headroom that these instrument provide . these change will therefore allow UK Export Finance to continue meet its mandate in support export and drive growth — something that I be sure those in all part of the House will join I in welcome . I commend these order to the House . I want to start by say " export be great " , and UK Export Finance , as the Minister just outline , have do a tremendous job over many decade in support great british exporter , so we support these change to the export and investment guarantee . as the Minister say , we finance £ 8 . 8 billion in export support last year , and that help 650 UK company to fulfil their potential by grow their overseas sale . today , I would like to probe the Government ' s attitude towards export , and I would particularly like to hear the Minister put on record his support for free trade at this time . the UK be now in the enviable position that almost 50 % of our product can now be export tariff - free , thank to the tireless work do under the previous Government to increase the number of market that our exporter have access to . that compare with the EU figure of some 27 % . raise the level of export to a target of £ 1 trillion would be truly tremendous for the growth of this country . it would support high - skilled job and raise profitability , productivity and tax contribution , so in the view of the Opposition , the Government can not do enough to support the growth of export . I want to take this opportunity to ask the Minister about specific policy . will he be continue the previous Government ' s programme of have trade envoy around the world help with the export connection for our exporter ? be the Government plan to take forward the discussion between the previous Government and the previous Trump Administration on a free trade agreement with the US ? will the Government be take forward the work that be do at state - by - state level to increase trade access for UK exporter into US state ? turn to the specific measure in front of we today , have the Minister consider amend the Act itself so that the possibility could exist to increase resource by more than the 5 , 000 million special drawing right that be currently cover by the legislation ? the previous Act say that this mechanism can be use only three time , so I wonder what provision the Minister have in mind for the next time the Government want to increase support to exporter through UKEF . as far as other export initiative be concern , can the Minister confirm that he will continue to support the " exporting be great " campaign and the great campaign generally , give the incredibly good feedback that they tend to get around the world ? lastly , can he confirm that he will remain on the side of our exporter , our wealth creator and the many business across this country that do so much to raise the prosperity of the United Kingdom ? I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . boost british export , especially for our small business , be vital to create job and economic growth , and it absolutely must be a strategic priority for the Government . this secondary legislation be a welcome step forward , give UK Export Finance the opportunity to grow its portfolio of project to help deliver for business across the country . this measure will be very important to my constituent , as Wokingham be one of the good place in the country to do business , and the Government should continue to help unlock our growth potential . we rank 15th of 362 local authority for competitiveness between 2017 and 2021 . the gross value add per fill job vacancy be 23 . 5 % , which be significantly fast than the rest of Berkshire and the south - east . my constituency have great example of where Government support programme have deliver success , such as M2 M Pharmaceuticals , which win a King ' s award for enterprise this year . tomorrow , I be visit Intersurgical , another great success story for Wokingham business , which design , manufacture and supply medical device . have grow from seven people in 1982 to upwards of 3 , 500 employee worldwide , it now export its product globally . however , I be sure it be deeply concerned about the Budget ' s impact on maintain its profitability . I look forward to hear from the company what more the Government need to do to support its success . there be certainly more that should be do to boost british exporter and improve Britain ' s trade policy . to start , the Government urgently need to fix our break relation with the EU to foster close co - operation with our large trading partner . we must cut vast swathe of red tape and reduce the trade barrier that hold back our business . for example , the Government should urgently negotiate a veterinary and plant health agreement with the EU to reverse the decline in british agrifood export since 2019 . secure bespoke mutual recognition agreement for Britain ' s engineer , architect , lawyer and accountant would also help british business across a variety of sector to secure great export opportunity . the trade association I have meet make one thing overtly clear : the impact of Brexit be hurt their profit , and we need to fix this mess . on trade , I hope this government do not follow the conservative party ' s approach of negotiate trade deal in desperation , which lead to weak outcome , as we can see from the result . for instance , the Conservatives fail to guarantee british standard on animal welfare and environmental protection in agreement such as the Australia trade deal , at an especially difficult time for the agriculture sector . even a Tory former Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs describe that agreement as " not actually a very good deal " . — [ Official Report , 14 November 2022 ; Vol . 722 , c . 424 . ] Parliament never get a proper say on our trade deal , eliminate the opportunity to stop the Government barrel ahead with deal that be deeply unpopular . I respect the Minister greatly , but there be a lot to get right , and to fix from the previous Government . will he meet I and representative from Wokingham business , such as Bexprt , which be struggle to secure UK export finance , to hear what they need from his Department ? will he set out to the House the specific form of scrutiny we will get when the Government conclude the trade deal ? will his Department renegotiate the Australia and New Zealand trade agreement ? I welcome the opportunity to close the debate . I thank the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) and for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) for their comment and question , which I will try to answer before I make some final remark about the statutory instrument . the hon . member for West Worcestershire ask if the UK Government support fair and free trade . I reconfirm our absolute commitment to support fair and free trade . we have make it very clear that trade be one of the key plank of the work of the Department . my right hon . friend the Minister for Trade Policy and Economic Security , report to the Secretary of State , be lead work on a trade White Paper , which we will bring forward in due course . I be sure the hon . Lady will see the Government ' s commitment to fair and free trade reflect in that document . as the hon . Lady know , when we be in opposition , we support accession to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership . we be work to agree a number of free trade deal , for example with Switzerland , India and South Korea . she ask I about the trade envoy programme . we be sympathetic to such a programme continue . we be look at it closely , as she would expect , and we will bring forward an update to the House in due course . the hon . Lady ask I about our view on trade with the United States . we recognise that the US be already a key export market for many british firm , and we want to look at all opportunity to increase trade with the US . I will come back to legislative reform more generally , but she be right to underline the message that we have to be on the side of wealth creator in this country if we want to see growth , more job and well pay for those in our community . win export order be fundamental to deliver growth , so a substantial amount of time in the Department be be spend think through what else we can do to support british business to win export order overseas . UK Export Finance be one part , but not the only part , of that story , and we will bring forward our plan in due course . I understand that Crawford Falconer , who have be in charge of a lot of the trade negotiation , be leave the Department . will the Minister tell the House what his plan be to fill that role ? I pay tribute to Crawford Falconer for his work for the Department and the country . he have already feed into the work that my right hon . friend the Minister for Trade Policy and Economic Security be lead on the trade White Paper . other in the Department be actively lead negotiation with a number of country in support of our free trade negotiation and our ambition for new free and fair trade agreement . the hon . Lady ask I whether there be a need for further legislative reform to UK Export Finance . the Secretary of State have instruct UKEF official to explore how we can increase the organisation ' s overall financial capacity . that work be under way . we be committed to ensure that UKEF can support british exporter now and into the future , but these statutory instrument be key in the short and medium term to help it to continue to do its job . the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) give I the opportunity to plug International Trade Week , which be take place this week . I be glad to see that he at least have take the advice that I write out for every Member of the House , encourage they to reach out to exporter in their constituency , to support what they be do already and to make they aware of further help that the UK Government could give they to win new export order overseas . one message that we have seek to get across during International Trade Week be that we be absolutely committed to a reset in our trade relationship with the European Union . there be no doubt that the poor - quality trade deal with Europe that the previous Government negotiate have hold back many british business from win export order in Europe . we need to reset the trade relationship with Europe in very practical term . we commit , for example , to negotiate a sanitary and phytosanitary agreement , and to explore more opportunity for mutual recognition of professional qualification . we see next year ' s trade and co - operation agreement review as another opportunity to look at what we can do to reduce the difficulty that business face in trading with our near neighbour . the Conservatives talk down the opportunity for british business to win export order in our near overseas market . that be a huge mistake ; business have tell we so . we be actively look at what we can do to change that . if the hon . member for Wokingham give any message to the representative of the company that he be visit tomorrow , let it be this : please encourage they to look again at Europe . we recognise that there be difficulty , but we want to work with business to sort they out , because we genuinely believe that there be real opportunity . he ask whether I would meet he and representative from Wokingham business . I would be very happy to . in that spirit , I commend the draft order to the House . question put and agree to . Export and Investment Guarantees resolve , that the draft Export and Investment Guarantees ( Limit on Exports and Insurance Commitments ) ( no . 2 ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 14 October , be approve . that the draft Export and Investment Guarantees ( Limit on Exports and Insurance Commitments ) ( no . 3 ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 14 October , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) business without Debate UK YOUTH PARLIAMENT order , that this House agree that the UK Youth Parliament shall be allow to meet in the Chamber twice in 2025 and then once a year for the remainder of this Parliament . — ( Lucy Powell . ) delegate LEGISLATION Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , International Development that the draft European Bank for Reconstruction and Development ( Further Payments to Capital Stock ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 7 October , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Telecommunications that the draft Radio Equipment ( Amendment ) ( Northern Ireland ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 9 October , be approve . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) question agree to . Backbench Business Committee Ordered , that Jess Brown - Fuller be a member of the Backbench Business Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) National Security Strategy ( Joint Committee ) order , that Mike Martin and Edward Morello be member of the Joint Committee on National Security Strategy . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Human Rights ( Joint Committee ) order , that Alex Ballinger , Juliet Campbell , Afzal Khan and Alex Sobel be member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - School Transport in North Yorkshire I rise to present a petition on school transport in North Yorkshire . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that North Yorkshire Council ' s recent decision to limit free school transport to the near school only be detrimental to rural family ; far that it will divide community , harm local school and risk child ' s safety by require travel on remote , often impassable route ; note that there be no guarantee of significant financial saving ; and far declare that councillor should rethink and reverse this damaging policy in the light of the negative impact it will have on the safety and education of child across rural North Yorkshire . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to work with North Yorkshire Council to reallocate fund to reverse the Council ' s decision to limit free school transport for pupil to the near school to their home address . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ P003019 ] Infant Formula Regulations Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Martin McCluskey . ) I be grateful to have secure my first Adjournment debate on an issue that affect so many family in my constituency and across the country : the cost of infant formula and the regulation that govern its sale . the infant formula market be rightly highly regulated , and should remain so . regulation have a key role in support public health goal and breastfeed . however , not all parent can or want to breastfeed , and recent stat show that 95 % of baby in the UK have have some formula by the age of nine month . as the father of a nine - month - old baby , I know how emotionally charge and difficult it be to navigate infant feeding . the infancy period be crucial for a child ' s development . in their first year , they will triple their birth weight , and the foundation of their health be determine for the rest of their life . it be vital that parent have access to safe and affordable food during infancy . the fact that , for too many family , that be not the reality be a public health crisis . recent datum from YouGov show that one in four mother be struggle to afford formula milk . over the past two year , the price of the cheap brand of formula have rise by 45 % , with an average price hike across all brand of 25 % . those increase be put immense pressure on family . I thank the hon . member for bring forward this important debate and allow I to intervene briefly . a recent Competition and Markets Authority report highlight the insufficient marketing regulation in the formula industry , which enable brand to exploit vulnerable parent by present their product as distinct or superior , despite all formula be require to meet the same nutritional standard , whether the box cost £ 7 or £ 14 . do he agree that an nhs - brand formula in plain packaging could be consider ? it could be sell at cost price . that would give those family who choose not to , or who can not , breastfeed confidence that their decision be good for their child , regardless of the cost . I completely agree , and I will come to that later in my speech . I look forward to work with the hon . Lady and other member of the all - party parliamentary group on infant feeding when it be establish in the come week . in my constituency alone , where child poverty have increase by 30 % in the past year , 12 , 500 child be go without enough food each day . formula be an essential product for many , but the average tub now cost a staggering £ 14 . 50 , so many parent be resort to extreme and unsafe measure to feed their baby . a black market have spring up for infant milk , and it be one of the most commonly shoplift item . rather than work to reduce its cost , some supermarket have resort to lock formula in cage or attach security tag to it . certain store have even go as far as to prevent customer from enter unless admit by staff — that be happen in convenience store across my constituency . we be see something that should be unthinkable in modern Britain : formula forage . I regularly read heartbreaking post on local forum from parent beg for baby milk to tide they over until the next payday — they be in utter despair — but by seek out cheap or free milk online , they risk feed their baby a product that could be out of date or already open and potentially laden with bacteria . study have show that the inability to afford formula can lead to unsafe feeding practice such as skip feed , ignore expiry date , and over - dilute powdered formula or bulk it out use unapproved alternative food such as porridge , all of which can harm an infant ' s health . new NHS England figure show a worrying rise in childhood malnutrition . up to 47 % of hospitalise child be at risk of undernourishment . last year , admission for malnutrition at Blackpool teaching hospital have almost double on the previous year . gastroenteritis have become an alarmingly common illness in infant , with many now suffer more than one episode a year . in Blackpool , hospital admission for under - one with gastrointestinal problem be almost triple the national average . dehydration — a common complication of gastroenteritis — be a particularly serious risk , and it be exacerbate by parent ' inability to access or properly prepare formula . parent should not be force into those dangerous choice when they be simply try to feed their baby . this scandal demand the urgent attention of the House . I thank my hon . friend for raise this horrendous issue . a related issue be the broad regulation of baby food . many baby food contain more sugar per 100 g than Haribo sweetie , and there be no compulsory regulation of their content . large number of child eat those baby food but be still malnourished and do not get a balanced diet . do he agree that we should consider wide regulation of , and mandatory standard for , the content of baby food , while still be mindful of the need for baby food to be affordable so that everyone can access proper nutrition for their child ? child in the UK be become short on average than their international peer , and that be a disgrace . I agree . we know from recent study by the Jamie Oliver Food Foundation and other that this be a serious issue that must be consider urgently . last week , the Competition and Markets Authority publish its long - await interim report on infant formula . the report outline its concern about the market , all of which appear to be contribute to parent pay over the odd . the regulation on the advertising and labelling of infant formula be rightly design to protect parent and encourage breastfeed . UK law be inform by , but not identical to , the World Health Organisation ' s international code of marketing of breast milk substitute . our regulation cover only infant formula intend for baby under six month old . that loophole in UK regulation permit hide marketing through careline and the widespread legal advertising of follow - on milk — an unnecessary product that do little more than promote high sale of a brand ' s infant formula . I urge the Government to consider strengthen UK regulation to close the loophole on the marketing of breast milk substitute , in line with the who code . however , strong regulation should not hinder affordable access to infant milk . parent be bad off because the current regulation mean that food bank voucher , loyalty point and store gift card can not be use to buy infant milk , and food bank be prohibit from stock it . as a volunteer for Blackpool food bank for over seven year , I have witness at first hand how urgently it be need . for too long , the third sector and charitable individual have be desperately scramble to fill the gap that the previous Government leave wide open and allow family to fall into . when it come to infant formula , even that safety net have be remove . I recently meet Richard Walker , the chairman of Iceland Foods , who share my commitment to ensure there be a fair price for formula for parent . along with over 100 , 000 signatory to the Metro and Feed UK ' s " Formula for Change " campaign , I support the call to allow parent to use food bank voucher to buy infant milk . in the last Parliament , I be a member of the APPG on infant feeding and inequality alongside Alison Thewliss , a former Scots nat Member . I be very pleased that this issue be be debate , and I congratulate the hon . member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) on secure the debate . do he agree that , while we can all acknowledge the well - document benefit of breastfeed , it simply do not work for some mother , and sometimes the baby do not put on weight ? while breast be undoubtedly good , we need to ensure that formula be available and be highly regulate , but not highly costly , in order to provide the good possible alternative . that mean not pretend that formula do not exist , but do all we can to ensure it be the good that we can offer when breastfeed fail . I completely agree with the hon . member . I have see that with my own son , who would not take to breastfeeding , so we have to resort to infant formula . we need to make sure that all parent have the good product available for their child to ensure they have the healthy start to their life . I ask the Government to examine the fact that food bank voucher can not be use to buy infant milk , to ensure the regulation do not punish the very people they be design to protect . the CMA report recommend potentially relax regulation to permit promotion and price reduction and incentivise competition . however , although discount would benefit parent in the short term , there need to be a sustainable solution to permanently lower the price of formula . the infant milk market in the UK be highly concentrated , with just three manufacturer account for over 90 % of supply . formula manufacturer have blame rise cost , but profit margin have inflate beyond they . those firm pass responsibility to the retailer , who they say ultimately set price . this be not just pass the buck , but take it from the pocket of struggle parent to line those of monopolistic multinational conglomerate whose combined annual profit be £ 15 billion . retailer do have their part to play , though . they must do their bit to protect family by cap their price in line with the CMA report ' s recommendation . in the come week , I will meet with three major supermarket to encourage they to cap price and follow the lead of Aldi and Lidl in develop a reasonably price own - brand infant formula . the cost to parent of buy the most expensive brand can add up to £ 1 , 000 a year — more than twice as much as use an own - brand infant formula . that be despite the fact that strict regulation ensure that these product be nutritionally equivalent . parent naturally want to do the good for their baby , and decision about feeding be inevitably make at a time when mother and father be at their most vulnerable . the CMA report point out that this can lead to they actively choose a more expensive product , assume incorrectly that a high price mean well quality . that assumption be not base on price tag alone , but on decade of brand - building by manufacturer try to claim the superiority of their product . the important public health message that all infant formula meet a baby ' s nutritional need must be more effectively communicate . the Government must also consider the CMA ' s recommendation that they procure infant formula themselves , provide it to parent at a low price point while put downward pressure on other manufacturer ’ price . price remain unjustifiably high , but Iceland ' s leadership in this campaign have lead to a welcome reduction in price across the sector . since February , there have be a positive shift , and there be now three formula product available in supermarket that be affordable with the Government ' s weekly Healthy Start voucher , but those supermarket be not accessible to everyone . Blackpool have the fourth high uptake of the Healthy Start scheme , but around 150 , 000 family nationally who be entitle to access it still do not . there be a clear need for we to ensure that all those who be entitle to Healthy Start voucher access they , while simultaneously increase their value from £ 8 . 50 . this be a matter of huge importance , and I be pleased to have be give the opportunity to raise it in the House . I urge the Government to consider my point and to work with I and stakeholder to ensure that accessibility and affordability be at the heart of the Government ' s policy on infant formula . we must examine the comprehensive recommendation in the CMA ' s report and the view of those in public health and the third sector , who understand the urgency of this debate . I invite Ministers to consider the voice of parent in Blackpool , who be at the sharp end of this price crisis , but who be brilliantly support by our local infant feeding support team . raise a child be one of the most challenging and demand thing we will do in our adult life . the Government ' s policy must lighten the load on parent to ensure that it can be one of the most rewarding thing we do . we must ensure that every child in this country have a healthy start to life ; we can not allow child in constituency such as mine to be fail before they have even take their first step . I thank and congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) for secure this debate on such a vital matter . he be a true champion for his constituent , and he be rightly concerned about people and family in his constituency who be struggle with the cost of living . I be aware that his constituency experience high level of deprivation , which create challenge for the people who live there . after 14 year of Tory neglect and incompetence , this Government be commit to improve the life and health of everyone . however , as my hon . friend will be all too aware , we have a significant challenge on our hand in transform our health service so that they work well for the people who need they . when we come to office on 4 July , we make it clear that we would fix our break nhs . we commission Lord Darzi , who publish a report that lay bare the true extent of the challenge face our health service , give we the frank assessment we need in order to face those problem honestly and to do the hard work require to fix they . that be why , in the Budget , we announce an additional £ 25 . 7 billion of health spending over this year and next . however , investment work only if it be couple with reform . that be why we have launch our 10 - year health plan , which will address the root cause and fix the foundation by invest in preventive care , expand mental health service and modernise NHS infrastructure to radically reform the NHS base on three seismic shift : from hospital to community , from sickness to prevention and from analogue to digital . our health mission also aim to reduce the time people spend in ill health by tackle health inequality and drive economic growth . my hon . friend will be aware that child be at the centre of our health mission and that we be committed to raise the healthy ever generation of child . infant feeding be critical to a baby ' s healthy growth and development . we be commit to give every child the good start in life , and that include help family to access support to feed their baby . the family hub and start for life programme be central to that . through that programme , 75 local authority across England be improve their infant feeding support for family , include breastfeed support . those service be help parent to access face - to - face and virtual support whenever they need it , and in a location that suit they , be that in their home , their family hub or a hospital setting . we want to build on the action that local area be already take through the programme , so that family can access the support they need when they need it to meet their infant feeding goal . breastfeed have significant benefit for mother and baby , but breastfeed rate in England remain low compare with those in other country . datum show that around 53 % of baby be breastfe at six to eight week , but that that drop significantly by six month . my hon . friend will know that in response to concern about breastfeed internationally , the World Health Organisation instigate an international code to promote breastfeeding and restrict the inappropriate marketing of breast milk substitute that can discourage breastfeed . the UK Government be absolutely committed to implement that code . although breastfeed have significant health benefit , we recognise that it be vital that family who can not or choose not to breastfeed have access to infant formula that be both affordable and high quality . the price of infant formula have be bring back into the spotlight with the publication of the Competition and Markets Authority ' s interim report last week on competition in the infant formula market . it highlight the fact that the price of some infant formula have increase by more than 25 % in recent year , and as my hon . Friend point out , parent and carer have have to bear the brunt of those price increase . the Government ' s infant formula regulation do not set the price of infant formula , which be agree by infant formula manufacturer and retailer . instead , they ensure that parent and carer have access to the high quality and safe infant formula . the regulation cover infant formula and follow - on formula , which cover the first 12 month of a baby ' s life . they require all infant formula to comply with robust nutritional and compositional standard , mean that they meet all the nutritional need of baby , regardless of price or brand . however , the regulation rightly restrict the inappropriate marketing and promotion of infant formula . that be because there be considerable evidence that advertising directly to the consumer influence people ' s decision on how to feed their baby . my hon . friend have raise question about loyalty card point and voucher from food bank or local authority be use for purchase infant formula . the regulation seek to restrict inappropriate marketing technique that induce the sale of infant formula , include special sale or discount , so as not to discourage breastfeed . loyalty card point on their own be not contentious within the infant formula regulation , and the regulation do not specifically mention they . I agree that consumer should be able to use their loyalty card point to achieve a saving on their shopping . however , my hon . friend will be aware that numerous loyalty and reward card scheme be available , and they vary significantly between retailer . some may offer special discount beyond award loyalty point . loyalty card point should not be use as an incentive or as a reward to purchase infant formula . there be unlikely to be a one - size - fit - all approach , and it be for business to ensure that their activity be in compliance with the regulation . my hon . Friend ask about food bank , and I wish to be clear that the regulation do not prohibit infant formula from be distribute via food bank , include where they may issue voucher to family . food bank set their own policy on whether to distribute infant formula . I recognise the important role that they play in support some of our most vulnerable family . we have publish guidance to business on the regulation , and can provide further clarity on those issue where need . my hon . Friend rightly mention the CMA ' s report , and I wish to address that in more detail . the CMA look at competition across the infant formula sector , include the regulatory framework , consumer behaviour and manufacturer behaviour , and it assess the impact on market outcome . it conclude that multiple factor be result in poor market outcome for consumer , include the behaviour of infant formula manufacturer and retailer , and that those require a response beyond the regulation alone . the CMA have be clear that it recognise the public health importance of the regulation , and that they ensure that all infant formula be suitable for meet the health and development need of baby , regardless of price . however , it suggest that restriction in the regulation on price promotion may be soften competition on price , and it be also concerned about enforcement of the regulation . furthermore , the CMA be concerned that parent and carer be not be provide with sufficient information to make well - inform choice , and that their choice be often make in vulnerable situation after give birth in healthcare setting . in these circumstance , they be unable to make choice that well meet their need and budget . the CMA have other market - base concern about infant formula be indirectly promote by infant formula manufacturer via the marketing of follow - on formula and grow - up milk , and about how statement on product may influence parent and carer choice . to understand how the visibility of product online , in - store and in hospital drive choice , the CMA commission qualitative research , which it publish alongside its interim report . we will be carefully consider all the issue and option put forward by the cma as it develop its final recommendation for Government early next year . I understand that many family be struggle to meet the cost of feed their baby , and the Government be commit to help family most in need to access support . the Budget announcement on extend the household support fund will help those face financial hardship with the cost of essential . the Government ' s Healthy Start scheme promote a healthy diet for pregnant woman , baby and young child by provide fund that can be use to buy or be put towards the cost of infant formula , as well as fruit and vegetable , pulse and milk . my hon . friend have suggest that the value of the Healthy Start scheme should be increase . he may be aware that in April 2021 , the value of the scheme increase by 37 % . the Government have repeatedly say that they will not consider lift the two - child benefit cap , but as we have be hear from Members , the cost of infant formula can be prohibitive for parent who be not particularly well off . will the Minister again consider lift the two - child benefit cap , which we know be the big driver of child poverty in the UK ? that would mean that few parent face difficult choice when it come to pay for good - quality food . when this government come into office on 4 July , we inherit the bad public finance since the second world war . we be elect on the basis of a manifesto that state we would return fiscal responsibility and discipline to the management of the british economy . all of that mean that we have have to take some hard choice . I do not think that a single member of the parliamentary Labour party want to have the two - child cap in place , but the reality be that the profound irresponsibility and recklessness of previous conservative Governments have leave we with no choice but to take some difficult decision . I hope that as we start to instil fiscal responsibility and bring growth back into our economy , we will be in a position to look again at the public finance , but we have to take it one step at a time because of the catastrophic situation leave to we by precede administration . on the Healthy Start scheme , I add that pregnant woman and child under four and over one each receive £ 4 . 25 a week , and child age under one each receive £ 8 . 50 a week . I once again thank my hon . friend the Member for Blackpool South for raise this really important matter . I fully appreciate that there be no quick fix to reduce the price of infant formula , which be set by manufacturer and retailer , but I have outline the help available through Healthy start for eligible family . I want to assure he that we be committed to address the concern raise by the cma so that the infant formula market deliver the well outcome that parent deserve . question put and agree to . House adjourn . deferred Division exit the European Union that the draft Windsor Framework ( Non - Commercial Movement of Pet Animals ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 10 October , be approve . Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Claire Hanna Monica Harding Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Helen Maguire Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Andrew Mitchell Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Julian Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Jim Allister Lee Anderson Dawn Butler Gregory Campbell Christopher Chope Alex Easton Nigel Farage Roger Gale Chris Law Carla Lockhart Rupert Lowe James McMurdock Gavin Robinson Jim Shannon Robin Swann Gavin Williamson the House divide : Ayes 412 , Noes 16 . question accordingly agree to .