it be clear that we be today debate methodology , rather than value . certainly , I do not dispute the Minister ' s value at all ; we all want to see the grow need meet , and the environment protect . the question that we be debate today be the good methodology for achieve those outcome . I have submit a number of amendment cover three area , which I will rattle through as quickly as I can , all of which support the theme that my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) advance today , and indeed that he have pursue in Committee in previous week . amendment 148 relate to housing target . it propose allow local authority to adopt target that reduce housing need , rather than simply target to build home . house building target be in many area part of the problem , rather than the solution to housing need . for example , since the 1960 , Cornwall ' s housing stock have be among the fast growing in the United Kingdom . it have almost treble , yet housing problem for local people have get significantly bad over that time . simply set house building target result in massive hope value be attach to every single community around Cornwall . have work as a chief executive of a charity that try to build affordable home , I can say that establish house building target make it more difficult to address the housing need of local people . target that be about reduce need would change the dynamic of the planning system in place that face these problem . unfortunately , the approach to house building target that have be adopt by party over the previous decade be build on the delusion that private developer will collude with government to drive down the price of their finished product . we can no long carry on in that delusion . we can not and should not pursue counterproductive methodology . amendment 149 and new clause 108 be consequential on the fundamental change propose in amendment 148 . my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington have speak about introduce a new class order to address the prevalence of non - permanent occupancy in some area . the previous Government be look at bring in a new class order for holiday let , but that should be extend to second home and all home of non - permanent occupancy . new clause 92 , which be consequential on new clause 91 , propose introduce a sunset clause for planning permission to ensure that there be not a perverse incentive for people to apply to change a property ' s use in order to enhance the value of their property when they sell it . this be not about the politic of envy but the politic of social justice . I think those who represent area or constituency with large number of second home properly understand how these thing operate . finally , I table a number of amendment relate to affordability , include new clause 89 on affordable development and new clause 90 . new clause 89 would prohibit cross - subsidy — or at least open - market development — on rural exception site . those site should not be call rural exception site ; they should be call rural norm site . that should be the methodology for deliver affordable home in rural area . it should be drive by want to have affordable home in such location . I be pleased to support this important Bill and the Government amendment to it , which will deliver the housing , infrastructure and environmental protection that my constituent need . first , I welcome the Government ' s enhancement to the environmental delivery plan . they provide great clarity , legal safeguard and appropriate flexibility to ensure that the plan restore and enhance our precious natural habitat . the current piecemeal approach to offset environmental harm be not work . the Government ' s sensible approach maintain exist protection for nature , and add to they with the ability to fund high - impact strategic nature recovery project . I be very lucky that there be several significant nature recovery project in my constituency , such as Sulham wood and meadow , which I have the pleasure of visit last week . this project be maximise biodiversity on 130 hectare of marginal arable land , and be plant 24 , 000 tree , 4 km of new hedgerow and a new walnut orchard . we need more big project like this . I would like to highlight the opportunity the Bill present for our country ' s chalk stream . I be proud to represent a constituency that boast many wonderful waterway , include the entire length of the River Pang — a beautiful , wind chalk stream that be a point of local pride . it be say to be the inspiration for the " Wind in the Willows " , and it be love by family , dog walker and angler alike . but the precious Pang be in crisis . in just a few short year , the water quality have plummet to poor . citizen scientist and angler test the river , such as Professor Mike Wilson and Pete Devery , consistently report sample with completely unacceptable level of phosphate and e . coli . the phosphate pollution from Thames Water sewage work be so bad that luminous green from the resultant algae can be see in satellite image . I thank all the campaigner , citizen scientist and volunteer with whom I have be work throughout my campaign to restore the Pang . I also thank the ARC project , the Rivers Trust , the Angling Trust , Pang Valley Flood Forum and Berks , Bucks and Oxon Wildlife Trust , as well as all member of the Pang Flagship Chalk Stream Partnership , which support a range of initiative to restore the Pang . they be all dedicated advocate whose restoration effort be make a real difference . chalk stream be rare and valuable habitat . their mineral - rich , stable water be home to a plethora of specie .