I will try to pick out the question from the bluster . on the £ 120 million , this be a specific issue that affect September 2024 onwards , where we allocate to local authority 22 week of funding because that be the period from September to March . some then say that they pay 26 week to their provider , so we have that money in order that they can provide 26 week of funding where that be what they do . on the funding rate , we announce the funding rate for three and four - year - old in April last year , and for two - year - old in November . give that local authority have to pass on 95 % of the money that we give they , provider have a pretty good idea of what they will receive . however , while the vast majority of authority will confirm their rate in the come week , a small number leave it until 31 March . we be encourage they not to do that , and to confirm their rate as early as possible in the same way as the other . the hon . Lady ask how many family would not be able to access the childcare offer as a result of those two issue . the answer be none . as she know , we have increase funding rate significantly . Neil Leitch , to whom she refer , be in our stakeholder group , and we value his input . however , I think it will be clear to people watch these exchange that while we get on with the big delivery of childcare ever , the Labour party have no plan , no policy , and no idea how to help family with childcare cost . we set our rate by conduct a survey of 10 , 000 provider , in order to understand the cost they face and set the rate accordingly . last November , we delay publish the rate a bit , in order that we could provide more money to take account of the Government ' s near 10 % increase in the national living wage . we believe we be get they right in relation to what people be pay , but if the hon . Lady have particular evidence she would like to send I , I will happily look at it . I set out in my statement the additional money that we have give to the sector in the last financial year and this one to help it to meet those cost pressure — that be anchor to the survey of 10 , 000 provider that I talk about . again , if the hon . Gentleman want to send I information , datum or specific case study , I will gladly have a look . the hon . Gentleman raise an important point about the increase cost pressure that everybody have to face . that be why we give an additional £ 204 million in the last financial year and a furth £ 400 million in the current financial year to help meet those pressure , base on the fact that we survey 10 , 000 provider in order to understand exactly what they be pay for all the thing he outline .