prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] just to let member know , it be the birthday of the Clerk of the House , who be 50 today . happy birthday , Tom . Oral Answers to Questions Culture , Media and Sport the Secretary of State be ask — Creative Industries what step her Department be take to help support the creative industry . what step her Department be take to help support the creative industry . what step her Department be take to help support the creative industry . this government be prioritise the growth of our creative industry , which be vital to our economy and showcase the good of creativity and culture . in the last few day alone , I have be pleased to announce £ 13 . 5 million of funding for two new cluster in Liverpool and the west midland . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer , and I just want to expand on it . in South Derbyshire , we have the Melbourne festival of art and architecture , which turn 20 next September , and the brilliant CircularityHUB , where people of all ability can go to use the medium studio . however , when it come to young people want career in the creative industry , what more can this Government do so that we can thrive in these industry at home , not have to get out to get on . I be aware of the huge ambition that my hon . friend have for South Derbyshire , and the contribution that its people can make to our art and culture and creative industry . this government be support those aspiration with a £ 3 million expansion of the creative career programme , so that young people can find those job and get access to those opportunity . with the Education Secretary , we be review the curriculum to put art and music back at the heart of the national curriculum , where it belong . many individual artist in place such as Leigh and Atherton have great difficulty in access funding stream . in many case , the trickle - down from large institution do not work and hold back creative growth . can the Secretary of State outline how funding will reach grassroots artist , empower they to thrive and play a central role in grow our local economy ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . she have do amazing work over the year with the Leigh Film Society and other thriving organisation that be lead the way . from the conversation she and I have have , I be well aware of the importance of grassroots society and venue in place such as Leigh and Wigan , and we be determined to put rocket booster under they . we be already work on support grassroots music venue and support voluntary action around a levy . in addition , we be help to channel funding to those small organisation so that they can create the pipeline of talent that enable people from place such as Leigh to go on and make a national impact . " Vengeance Most Fowl " be not just what the public inflict on the conservative party at the general election . it be also the name of the Aardman Animations Wallace and Gromit film come out soon , which will be show on the BBC on Christmas day and on Netflix around the world . what be the Secretary of State and her wonderful team do to promote animation not just across the west of England and in my constituency , but across the UK , so that it can get to even well and great height in the future ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and I be very happy to be the Gromit to his Wallace . this Government have already announce new tax relief for british film and special effect , but we be determined to do more . I know that , as the Mayor , he have champion this issue across his region . we be work closely with Mayors and local council to put rocket booster under their local growth plan , so that whether it be animation , music , art , sport or creativity , we ensure that every part of the country benefit from its success . will the Culture Secretary welcome the news that , thank to levelling - up funding , malvern theatre in the west midland will be expand ? planning permission be grant last week , which will give lot of young people an opportunity to get job in the creative industry . when the new theatre have be build , will she come to open it and meet some of those young people ? I would be delighted to do so . I thank the hon . member for her support for theatre , art and culture , and for always be a strong voice for they in this place . one reason that we have prioritise expand the creative career programme be that we be determined that as many part of the country as possible play their full part in the growth success story that be our creative industry , and that young people in such community get access to those opportunity and go on to have flourish career . I would be delighted to come and open the theatre when the work be finally do . Bath be a city of music , but so many of the musician in the city and across the UK face enormous bureaucratic barrier when they want to perform in the EU . can the Secretary of State update I on what progress have be make on this issue ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that incredibly important issue . we have hear the message loud and clear from the music industry that the deal that be strike on touring be have a difficult effect on many artist from the UK . we be also aware that that work both way , and we need a much improve agreement with our friend in the European Union to ensure that their artist can come and perform here and our artist can freely go and perform there . my right hon . friend the Paymaster General and Minister for the Cabinet Office be currently undertake those negotiation , and we be determined to resolve the issue . I thank the Secretary of State for her enthusiastic response to the question . in my constituency , and for Ards and North Down borough council , the creative industry be really important , whether that be art , metal sculpture or music , and Ulster Scots run through the vein of all that . may I invite the Secretary of State to come to Northern Ireland and my constituency of Strangford to observe and enjoy all that we have ? she will never see anything else like it . I thank the hon . Gentleman and I be very aware of the enormous contribution that the whole of Northern Ireland make to our creative industry . I confess that my favourite tv show in the world be " Derry Girls " , so if he can arrange for the Derry Girls to be present , I would be delighted to visit . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . small music venue such as the Frog & Fiddle in Cheltenham be part of the lifeblood of the creative industry , but the Music Venue Trust have warn that after year of economic pressure and the recent Budget , more than 350 venue be on the brink of closure . how be the Government support small music venue , and what step will they take if the voluntary levy on arena and stadium ticket be not agree by the large venue whose participation be vital ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that question . my constituency of Wigan be home to the Verve , and it be difficult to know where such a band would now cut their tooth in the industry , because many of the live music venue that they play in as an up - and - come band have disappear . I very much recognise the problem that he raise . he will know that this Government have support the voluntary levy that the industry have back , but if that levy be not implement we will be force to take action . my hon . friend the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism will be write to the industry in those term this week . tourism : Coastal town what recent assessment she have make of the contribution of tourism to the local economy of coastal town . tourism be vital to our coastal town , and if we be to reach our target of 50 million international visitor to the UK by 2030 , we will need to do far well at improve tourism number in our coastal town . the coastal village of Skinningrove be home to a fantastic tourist asset , Land of Iron , which be the lead ironstone mining museum in the country . I be campaign for it to receive national status as the national ironstone mining museum . will minister consider meet I to discuss that request , and would they like to visit ? my hon . friend challenge I a bit . the Rhondda have the good mining museum in the UK , but I be prepared to concede that in England he might be right . but there be an important point : our mining heritage be part of understand the country that we have be , and the country that we can be in future . I be very happy to meet my hon . friend . Arts Council England have a specific way of give a national name to museum , and that be one thing that he might want to apply to it for . tourism and hospitality contribute more than £ 500 million and a fifth of all job in North West Norfolk . why be the Government hit those business with high business rate and a job tax ? it would be good , would it not , to have an nhs that work in this country . it would be good to have an economy that work , train that run on time , and a country that function so that when tourist come here they have a good experience , rather than sit on a platform wait for a train that never turn up on time . I be determined to ensure that we get to 50 million visitor to the United Kingdom . last year , we have just 38 million visitor . if we be to secure that increase we must have a country that welcome tourist to every part of the country , not just London and the south - east . I call the shadow Minister . the Budget have create a perfect storm for hospitality and tourism business across the country . ukhospitality be sound the alarm , say that the Budget be a " blow " for the tourism and hospitality sector . accord to the Minister ' s impact assessment , how many job will be create as a result of lower the national insurance threshold , and how many business will close , as we suspect they will ? what do his impact assessment tell he will be the impact on ethnic minority community , woman , and those with disability for whom the tourism and hospitality sector be a huge employer ? will he tell the House whether he even have an impact assessment for one of the most damaging and regressive taxis that we will ever see ? with that list of question , I think the shadow Minister need a debate . the irony be , we have already have two debate on these issue in the last fortnight — thank to you , Mr Speaker . first , I welcome the hon . member to his place and his new responsibility . I look forward to work with he . the truth of the matter be that the tourism industry have really struggle over the last few year , partly because of Brexit and partly because of covid . under the last few year of the Conservative Government , it do not get back to its pre - covid level of 41 million visitor to the UK — it be now at 38 million . as I say , I want we to get to 50 million by 2030 . the only way we be go to do that be if we significantly improve the offer at every stage of the experience of visitor come to the United Kingdom . yes , there be undoubtedly challenge for the hospitality industry — I say this in a speech yesterday afternoon — but the thing that really worry I be that historically we in this country have see a job in the industry as something that someone have to do when they have not get another job . I want to change that so that it be a career to be proud of ; something respectable that someone might do for their whole life . gambling Operators Levy : Society Lotteries whether she have have recent representation from society lottery on the potential merit of zero - rate those organisation under any future statutory levy on gambling operator . as set out in a write ministerial statement yesterday , the Government will introduce a statutory levy on gambling operator , which be a commitment make as part of the gamble White Paper in 2023 . society lottery will be charge the levy at the low rate of 0 . 1 % . I know that they be a vital fundraising tool for many charity , community group and sport club up and down the country . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . the Minister clearly recognise , as we all do , the contribution that society lottery make to our constituency through various organisation . do she recognise that not - for - profit society lottery will have to fund any levy due from their charitable return , which the sector , and I think many of we , feel amount to a charity tax ? my understanding be that the levy come after the money have go to good cause , but I be not the Gambling Minister , who sit in the other place . I will happily arrange a meeting for the right hon . member with the Gambling Minister . community Wealth Fund : Dudley what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to ensure the community wealth fund support community in Dudley constituency . the Government be commit to ensure that the community wealth fund deliver meaningful benefit across England . that be why we have allocate £ 87 . 5 million of dormant asset fund towards it . we will set out our position on the key design principle of the community wealth fund shortly . give that Russells Hall in Dudley rank on the local index in the top 2 % of area with the great need and that nearly half of working - age resident rely on benefit , will the Minister confirm what step the Government will be take to target place like mine that be doubly disadvantaged ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I know Dudley well , and I know that she be a strong advocate for the area she represent . I reassure she that the Government be commit to support those place in need through the community wealth fund . we be work at pace on the detail and delivery of the fund and will set out the next step in due course . horserace what plan she have to support the horseracing industry . I know that the hon . Gentleman be a huge champion for horseracing , and the Government be well aware of the value of horserace to the UK , which support 85 , 000 job , have an annual economic contribution to the economy of £ 4 . 1 billion and be the second - good attend sport in Britain . Mr Speaker , I be not sure if it be in order to raise the travesty of the refereeing decision last night in the Aston Villa - Juventus match , but I think I would give it a try . the Secretary of State have be warm about the horserace industry , and I be grateful for that ; it be a vital part of the economy in West Suffolk and nationwide . I have previously raise with she and her ministerial team the need to reform the bet levy and affordability check . I would be grateful for an update on the timeline for any action on that . we believe that the horserace bet levy be vital for the financial sustainability of the sport and its thousand of fan . I can update he that the Minister for Gambling recently meet representative from horserace and bet to encourage a voluntary deal that fairly reflect the relationship between racing and bet . we expect an update from the British Horseracing Authority and the Betting and Gaming Council on progress by the end of the year . let ' s hope that the shadow Minister will not fall at the first hurdle . thank you , Mr Speaker . the horseracing industry have be leave in the dark by this government , follow the Chancellor ' s disastrous Budget . the Office for Budget Responsibility warn that the national insurance rise would cost , on average , £ 800 per employee . with 20 , 000 employ across the country , the Government ' s job tax could cost the horseracing industry £ 16 million and the gambling sector up to £ 100 million , even before the new levy . will the Secretary of State tell the House whether her Department have make any assessment of the impact of the increase in national insurance contribution on the industry ? how many job will be lose ? how many training yard and course will close ? how many of the 500 independent bookie will shut ? let I gently say to the hon . Gentleman — who I welcome to his place — that he be well aware that in the decision that we take in the recent Budget we protect the small business . More than half of business will pay either less or the same as they currently do . we will take no lecture from the Opposition about how to run the economy , after 14 year , give the mess that they leave this country in . it really do take some brass neck to stand at that Dispatch Box and attack the Government . Grassroots Sport if she will make an assessment of the contribution of grassroots sport to community . grassroots sport make a huge contribution to community up and down the country , provide sport and physical activity opportunity , and a chance to socialise and learn new skill while support people ' s health and wellbeing . the Government be support people to get active through our £ 123 million multi - sport grassroot facility programme . grassroot boxing gym , like many grassroots sport , offer their local community unparalleled benefit . they be community hub , they build skill and confidence and become safe space for young people to grow their talent . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on boxing , I be delighted to launch two report early this year that highlight its huge social benefit . unfortunately , these gym remain very unfunded and rely almost entirely on the goodwill of volunteer . will the Minister meet I and the all - party parliamentary group to discuss include dedicated grassroot funding in the sport strategy ? I know the hon . Gentleman be a huge advocate for boxing , and I be pleased to speak with he about it a few week ago . I have see at first hand the impact that boxing can have . England Boxing be give £ 6 . 8 million by Sport England in 2022 . I would be delighted to meet he to discuss the issue far . I call the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . the Minister know that grassroots sport provide enormous health , economic , welfare and community benefit . that be why today , the Culture , Media and Sport Committee be launch an inquiry that we be call " Game on " into community , grassroot and school sport , and the intervention need to improve they . what conversation be the Minister have with her counterpart in the Department for Education about how to work collaboratively to build a lifelong love and passion for sport , give the benefit for young people ' s health and wellbee ? I be incredibly grateful to the Chair of the Select Committee for that important question . we work closely with the Department for Education ; I chair a roundtable with the Schools Minister on grass - root sport and how to get sport into school . I also convene a meeting on woman ' s sport , where representative from the Department for Education be present . I would be delighted to discuss it far , and I know the Secretary of State would , too . National Youth Strategy : Youth Sector Organisations what step her Department be take to incorporate information collect by youth sector organisation into the national youth strategy . the Government be co - produce a new national youth strategy with young people to grip the challenge of the generation . when I enter the Department I be shocked to find no single youth strategy . the last Government fund a lot of good youth work , but I think we can all agree that the challenge face this generation be immense , and we need to do far more to support they . on Tuesday , I chair the all - party parliamentary group on youth affair , where we discuss this Government ' s plan for a national youth strategy with more than 80 young people and organisation from across the sector , include grassroots organisation such as reach Higher from my constituency , which support young people and family across Croydon . the national plan for young people be urgent , but the 73 % cut to funding for youth service under the previous Government have result in 4 , 500 youth worker leave the sector over the past decade , accord to the National Youth Agency . can the Secretary of State outline how her national youth strategy will support youth worker and attract more people back to that vital work ? the youth strategy be an opportunity to look afresh at the training , recruitment and retention of youth worker . my hon . friend will know that my first job before I come to this place be at the youth homelessness charity Centrepoint . I be aware of the vital work of youth worker — they be a lifeline for young people , and those relationship matter disproportionately to whether a young person succeed or fail . my Department work with the National Youth Agency to fund training bursary for individual who may otherwise be exclude due to cost . we be aware that some of the people who make the good youth worker have have those experience . we be very committed to work with she and her all - party parliamentary group to ensure that we get this right . Young Devon provide essential service for young people across Devon , include support accommodation and mental health provision . when I meet Young Devon staff on Friday , they tell I the increase employer ' national insurance contribution will cost the charity at least £ 90 , 000 just to stand still — that mean 100 few young people counsel and eight few bed offer . what conversation have the right hon . Lady have with the Chancellor to ensure that charity such as Young Devon do not have to reduce their valuable service as a result of the Budget ? it be lovely to hear about the work that Young Devon be do , which the hon . Lady be support in her constituency . the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , who have responsibility for civil society , have hold a number of roundtable with the sector on this issue to ensure that we be provide the right help and support . the hon . Lady will know that in the Budget , the Government announce plan to raise the threshold at which business and charity pay contribution , so that half of charity — the small charity — will pay either less or the same as they currently do . charity can also benefit from relief on employer contribution ; that be worth around £ 6 billion a year . this government be take action to protect the sector , and when we launch the civil society covenant a few week ago , we make it clear that we want a genuine partnership with charity . they be welcome at the heart of Downing Street . that be why my hon . friend the Minister for civil society will continue that work . Grassroots Football Clubs : financial Resilience what step she be take to help improve the financial resilience of grassroots football club . as set out follow the Euro 2024 final , the Government be commit to support grassroots football club and facility . the Government be invest £ 123 million this year to deliver pitch for grassroots football across the UK . alongside that , the Government be support the Football Association ' s ambition to double the number of three - star community club across the country . I thank the Minister for her detailed answer , and for all the work the Government be do to support grassroots football . we have many grassroots football club in my constituency , include Nuneaton Town and Nuneaton Griff , and we understand their importance and contribution to the town . both club have struggle recently , especially in secure a ground ; they have to share one with their competitor in Bedworth . while we appreciate their hospitality , we would like to meet Ministers to talk about how to bring football home to Nuneaton . I recognise the huge contribution to community make by grassroots club such as the one my hon . friend have mention ; I have see that at first hand in my constituency in Barnsley . I appreciate the number of challenge those club face , and I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the option available . grassroots football be support by medium and large community - base football club , such as AFC Fylde in my constituency , Chorley FC in your constituency , Mr Speaker , and Wigan Athletic in the Secretary of State ' s constituency . Wigan sadly post a £ 13 million loss for the last financial year . how do the Secretary of State think the club can make itself more financially resilient , give the significant impact that the need to pay national insurance contribution will have on their finance ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . that be why we be continue the work of the previous Government by introduce our own Football Governance Bill to hopefully put football on a sustainable footing . Kettering Town FC be currently the lead FA cup goal scorer , and be in the second round of the man ' s FA cup on Sunday . will the Minister join I in wish the Poppies the very good of luck in that game ? what step be she take to improve the financial resilience of local club such as Kettering Town FC ? I will of course put on record that I wish the team good luck and send they my huge thank and congratulation . the work that we be do to support grassroots football , through our multi - sport grassroot facility programme , will hopefully grow the grassroots game . the Minister will be aware that there be a sub - regional stadia strategy in Northern Ireland . will she have discussion with my colleague , the Minister for Communities in Northern Ireland , to see what assistance , information and additional resource can be deploy to ensure there be widespread development of grassroots football in Northern Ireland ? I have previously have discussion with my counterpart in Northern Ireland and I will be delighted to do so again . I be hope to visit Northern Ireland in the come month . Listed Building Status : community Groups what step her Department be take to help support community group to secure list status for building . Historic England assess application for list . I want that process to be as simple as possible for community group up and down the land , so they can steer a balance between preserve what be truly valuable and leave community with decaying , list eyesore . in Long Stratton , there be a beloved former local authority building call South Norfolk House . it have win numerous award for its innovative architecture and its ahead - of - its - time design focus on energy efficiency , but it have be refuse list status . this could be a fantastic community asset for the town ; it could be an art hub . will the Minister meet I to discuss its future ? I be very happy to meet my hon . friend . I always have to be a little bit careful about decision that might end up come to I , in case I have queer the pitch . I pay tribute to Councillor Race , who have spend a great deal of time on this matter . many community group up and down the land have try to do precisely the same thing : bring a historical building back into community use . obviously , we want to support that wherever possible , where it be sustainable in the long term . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . my Department be fire on all cylinder . in the last few week , we have launch the national youth strategy ; introduce the Football Governance Bill ; appoint Baroness Shriti Videra to chair the Creative Industries Council ; and launch two new creative cluster , in Birmingham and Liverpool . also , yesterday I announce a levy to tackle harmful gambling . sport club in my constituency such as Shipston rugby club and Stratford sport club be do fantastic work with young people , but for rural constituency like Stratford - on - Avon , where sport play a vital role in youth engagement , the impact of extreme weather event mean that many sport club consistently lose access to their facility due to flooding throughout the year . will the Secretary of State confirm whether the new youth strategy will consider the challenge pose by the climate on youth sport activity ? the hon . Lady will know that for young people in particular , the climate crisis be an enormous priority . as she know , we have announce that we be co - produce and create the national youth strategy with young people . I would be amazed if the impact of climate change on the thing that matter most to they be not an essential part of that strategy . my constituent Amanda Mountain be a phenomenal artist , paint the most outstanding design and then place they on stationery . however , Temu and shein be rip off her work , and many artist ' work , in breach of intellectual property control . they be undercut her business , at serious cost to she . what step will the Minister take to protect artist and their business , and ensure that online retailer be hold to account ? copyright and the protection of artist ' moral and economic right be an absolutely essential part of ensure that they be properly remunerate for their creativity . we will do everything in our power to make sure that the copyright regime remain , be strong , and be strongly enforce . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you , Mr Speaker , and a very happy birthday to the Clerk of the House . as we have hear time and again today , and in the past few week , the Government ' s job tax could cost £ 2 . 8 billion to the Department ' s sector — to the art , sport , music , hospitality and tourism . be the Secretary of State blindside by the Budget , as the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs claim , or be she aware of that ? have she , as we have ask several time , do a sector - by - sector impact assessment ? if not , why not ? if so , will she publish it ? I gently say to the right hon . Gentleman that unlike the previous Government , we do actually like one another and work together across Government , so I have a number of discussion about the Budget with my right hon . friend the Chancellor in advance . she be very aware of the importance of creative industry , and of all our sector , to the UK economy . that be why we have put they at the heart of our industrial strategy and our economic plan . we be work closely with the industry to make sure that they continue to thrive . so it sound like the right hon . Lady do know , which be interesting , give that she care about charity as much as I do . they face a £ 1 . 4 billion bill . when they need help the most , we give they £ 100 million . her Government be now go to take 14 time that amount back from they . we hear yesterday that the Teenage Cancer Trust will have to find an extra £ 300 , 000 , and Marie Curie report have to find nearly £ 3 million . where do the Secretary of State suggest that such organisation find the money to pay this charity tax , and who will fill the gap if charity have to scale back on their work as a result of this Government ' s decision ? under the last government , charity face a perfect storm . not only do they receive very little support from the government — in fact , they be silence and gag , and be tell by one charity Minister that they should be " stick to their knitting " , which , in my view , be deeply offensive — but they have to deal with the rise pressure of the cost of living crisis , and the mess that the right hon . Gentleman ' s party be make of run the country . our Government be determined to take action on this , and we be elect on a pledge to do so . as I have tell the right hon . Gentleman ' s colleague previously , we be protect our charity , as be announce in the Budget , and I will take no lecture from the conservative on how to run this country . in 2021 , the UK export £ 9 . 1 billion - worth of creative good and £ 45 . 6 billion - worth of creative service , but we can and must do well . may I press the Secretary of State on what she be do to support the creative industry ' co - ordinate strategy for growth ? rise — rise — which one ? who want it ? you can see how eager we be , Mr Speaker . we be champ at the bit to support the creative industry . as my hon . friend the Member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) will know , we have announce a series of measure over the last few month to support these industry , include tax credit for independent film and special effect . we be broaden the curriculum to ensure that there be a pathway enable young people to work in the creative industry , and we have hold an international investment summit , to which the industry be central . we will be announce more in due course . Council - own art centre in my Oxfordshire constituency , such as Cornerstone in Didcot and the Beacon in Wantage , face rise energy and staffing cost . give that most external funding source do not support operating cost , will the Secretary of State press her Cabinet colleague to back multi - year funding settlement for local government , to help art and culture to thrive ? yes ! since the announcement of my Sale of Tickets ( Sporting and Cultural Events ) Bill , which make provision for transparency on ticket price , I have be deluge with suggestion and support worldwide from people who do not want another oasis - style ticket scam . will Ministers meet I to discuss work together on this , give the chance that on 6 December , Opposition Members ' shenanigan will sink the thing without trace ? I thank my hon . friend for raise an issue that be so important to fan throughout the country . the Government , include my right hon . friend the Business Secretary , have act decisively in announce a consultation in order to consider how good to put fan back at the heart of ticketing , not whether to do it . we will say more about this imminently . may I commend the report from the House of Lords Communications and Digital Committee , entitle " the future of news " ? it highlight the threat from the unauthorised use of news content to train AI model . will the Secretary of State consider , as a matter of urgency , strengthen the legislation in this area , and consider the introduction of a licensing scheme , as the report recommend ? I know that this matter be of huge concern not just to the right hon . Gentleman but to the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , and to many other member . as he know , the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism have responsibility in both this Department and the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , and have take a keen interest in the issue . we have read the report and be consider its recommendation , and I will shortly be in a position to update the right hon . gentleman on the action that the Government intend to take . Hazlerigg Victory Club be just one of many fantastic football club in my constituency that be run by local champion for the benefit of our community . they have say that pitch be too often of poor quality , and be eye - wateringly expensive to hire . how can we ensure that that the big Dan Burns and Grace Donnellys of the future have access to appropriate facility ? our Government be acutely aware that there be not enough facility in community in the UK to keep pace with demand . we know that these facility be a visible symbol of whether we value our child and young people , whether we value those community , and whether we stand with they . we be work with the Football Association and the Premier League to create new state - of - the - art facility across the country to inspire the star of the future , and I would be glad to discuss that far with my hon . friend to ensure that it be of benefit to she . in Brighton Pavilion , we love our grassroots music venue , and we often need to make robust use of the " agent of change " principle to protect they when it come to licensing and planning , but it be hard work to enforce that and ensure that it happen . be the Minister have any discussion with the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government about put the " agent of change " principle on a statutory footing ? those meeting have already take place and will continue to take place . the hon . Lady make a very good point . I have visit Brighton Pavilion many time , so I know that other music venue there can , I hope , come online in the near future . I know that the Secretary of State meet Ed Sheeran last week — she have tell I about it about 25 time — to discuss precisely that issue . a recent report by the Federation of Small Businesses Wales highlight the thriving creative business that exist in coastal area like mine . what can the Secretary of State do to increase awareness of they and ensure that the next round of the creative cluster programme focus on area such as Clwyd North ? I be very pleased to visit Blackpool recently to see the incredible work that Blackpool pleasure beach be do . coastal community have an enormous role to play in our creative industry , and we be absolutely determined to do everything we can to support they . they have a very special place in the life of the nation ; I think most people holiday there as child . we hope that they continue to thrive , and I will be in a position to update the House soon . mountbatten hospice , which serve my constituency and Hampshire more widely , receive 70 % of its income through charitable donation . it have tell I and my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight East ( Joe Robertson ) that its viability be under risk because of the national insurance contribution policy that this Government have bring forward . can the Secretary of State outline what pressure she will put on the Treasury to make sure that the policy change ? the charitable sector be in real danger because of this Government ' s decision . my right hon . friend the Health Secretary and I have already have a discussion about the situation face hospice . he be acutely aware of it , and be work with the hospice movement in order to provide the good possible support . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate Newton Aycliffe youth football club on be runner - up in fa club of the year in Durham , and will she join I in congratulate all the parent , volunteer and young people involve in grassroots sport ? I thank my hon . friend for be such an outstanding champion of his community , and I extend my warm congratulation to Newton Aycliffe . he be right to highlight the invaluable contribution that family make to the success of young people . they often pitch in as volunteer and coach , and take child and young people to match come rain or shine — I imagine that in his neck of the wood , like mine , it be more often rain than shine . I be really glad that they have such a good champion . the Minister with responsibility for sport graciously meet I to discuss the future of London Irish in my Spelthorne constituency , and she undertake to ensure that the club would get the meeting with Sport England that it so desperately desire . can the Minister give we an update ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for come to speak to I about this issue . I will speak to my official and make sure that we approach Sport England very speedily . I would like to highlight the richly deserve King ' s award for voluntary service that have be give to the 60 volunteer at Newby and Scalby library in Scarborough . the library ' s service be innovative , include a summer reading challenge for child , an IT buddy service and a garden grow produce . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate Newby and Scalby library on its award , and on the enormous contribution that it make to our community in Scarborough ? I be very happy to congratulate Newby and Scalby library . I thank my hon . friend for draw attention to the enormous work that library do in help to promote child ' s literacy in this country , which could not be more important . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — church - own Hospices : Assisted die what assessment the Church have make of the potential impact of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill on Church - own hospice . what assessment the Church have make of the potential impact of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill on Church - own hospice . church nationwide provide chaplaincy and grief counselling service to hospice , patient and their family . many modern hospice start off as church - affiliate institution thank to the pioneer work of Dame Cicely Saunders . they be largely now affiliate to Hospice UK , which support over 200 hospice across the UK , include the Royal Trinity hospice , near my constituency of Battersea . only a third of adult hospice in the UK receive funding from the state . the rest rely on charitable support , and there be considerable concern that the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill may divert much - need fund from frontline care . hospice have charitable aim to provide palliative care at the end of life , but these could be compromise by the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill , which come before the House tomorrow . what consultation and impact assessment of this measure have there be with hospice that have a faith foundation ? I be hear that some hospice need an exemption , or they might close . I do not believe there have be consultation with any faith - connect organisation , and I do not believe that an impact assessment have be carry out . however , Hospice UK , the body to which most Church - associate hospice be affiliate , have survey provider , staff and practitioner , who have express concern about the Bill ' s implementation . they be concerned about the following : who will qualify ; the impact on those work in hospice , palliative care and end of life care ; the ability of provider and staff to opt out ; the practical operation of a conscience clause ; the financial impact on the future funding of hospice ; and the lack of public awareness of end of life care and the available choice . can my hon . friend confirm whether Church - own hospice will work with independent hospice and other organisation to mitigate the potential impact of the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill , and to issue a statement from across the sector ? I thank my hon . friend for her question on this incredibly important issue . I refer she to my previous answer , but it be also worth highlight that , in recent year , the General Synod of the Church of England have twice vote by large majority against change the law on assist suicide . the Association for Palliative Medicine and Hospice UK , to which most chaplain and Church - own hospice be affiliate , remain opposed to any change in the law . the sector be particularly concerned about the funding challenge such a change would bring , as be highlight in a Select Committee report . the report show that funding for palliative care service fall by almost 5 % in country such as the Netherlands , Belgium and Luxembourg , where legalised assist dying be in place , compare with a 25 % increase in country where it have not be legalised . do the Church Commissioner agree that hospice be about comfort the dying and surround they with care ? be that not the very antithesis of the state involve itself in sanctioning and assist suicide ? if we think back to the founder of hospice care , it be found on the principle of faith and Jesus Christ . it be only right that those principle of care and compassion ring true in ensure that hospice care be there for those who need it . the very ethos of Church - own hospice be the sanctity of life , on which the Bible be very clear . church - own hospice will reflect that in what they do . do the Church Commissioner share my concern about the potential conflict that could arise between Church - own hospice and this House follow the outcome of tomorrow ' s debate on the assisted dying Bill ? do she share my concern about the sanctity of life and agree with I about the importance of make sure that we keep people alive ? hospice and palliative care play an important role in end of life care . I believe that we need to fund those service properly before we consider move towards legislate for assist dying . historic Places of worship what step the Church be take to preserve historic place of worship . what progress the Church Commissioners have make on reduce the backlog of work to restore parish church and cathedral . the national Church institution have invest £ 11 million in the Buildings for Mission fund , which provide money for repair , specialist advice and grant to parish of up to £ 12 , 000 for small - scale urgent work . building for Mission can also be use to pay for essential improvement to church mission and ministry , such disability access , toilet or even a community kitchen . my constituency be home to many historic church that continue to be much love by their community . they include St John ' s church in Bromsgrove , which date from 12th century but be predominantly construct in the 14th and 15th century . the church have have to raise many hundred of thousand of pound for the upkeep and maintenance of its spire . key to that be the list place of worship grant scheme . what conversation have take place between the Government and the Church regard the preservation of that scheme ? St John ' s church in Bromsgrove be a perfect example because , have raise the fund , it be prepare to undertake urgent work to its spire , with an anticipated project cost of roughly £ 452 , 000 , but it could reclaim around £ 90 , 000 through the list place of worship grant . as the hon . Gentleman probably know , the scheme have pay out £ 317 million since it be introduce in 2001 by the former Prime Minister Gordon Brown , and have assist over 13 , 000 place . the scheme currently receive around 7 , 000 application per annum and have a budget of £ 42 million . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport have assess the scheme on numerous occasion . it deliver the fair possible system of make grant . St Andrew ' s parish church and Holy Trinity church in my constituency be both list building that provide vital community service . the former be save for a heat pump and the latter for a new roof . they be hope to use the list place of worship grant scheme to undertake the work , but because the scheme be due to expire next year , their future be uncertain . will my hon . friend join I in thank the many church across the UK and Kettering for the work that they do to serve our community ? what plan be there for the future of the scheme ? my hon . friend be a strong advocate for the church in her constituency . I be pleased to hear she mention that St Andrew ' s church be upgrade its heating system ; hopefully , it will benefit from some funding from the list place of worship grant scheme . as I be sure will be say again in this question session , the scheme make a huge difference to church . many have to do a lot of fundraising in their community , but be able to rely on the scheme help to cover some of the cost . list place of Worship Grant Scheme what step the Church be take to mitigate the impact of the potential withdrawal of the list place of worship grant scheme in March 2025 . what recent discussion the Church have have with the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport on whether the list place of worship grant scheme will continue after March 2025 . the list place of worship grant scheme , which be clearly dominate question today , enable vat to be refund for repair to our old and most precious church and religious building . without access to the scheme , parish will find it hard to fund essential repair , and they will have to spend more time on fundraising and less time on the need of their local community . I understand that the Bishop of Bristol and the National Churches Trust have write to my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport to ask for a meeting . I hope that my right hon . friend will meet they in the near future , as time be of the essence . in rural area like the Weald of Kent , our church be vital public building , provide somewhere not just for the spiritual life of our village and town , but for their civic life . give the impending withdrawal of the list place of worship grant scheme , what be be do to support church like St Mildred ' s in Tenterden ? it play a vital role in the town , especially now that the town hall be close for refurbishment , and it rely on the scheme to make essential repair . the hon . Lady have speak about the importance of the scheme , but will it be extend ? as the hon . Lady will agree , I be not the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , so I can not give she a decision on that . however , she rightly highlight the vital role that church play as a cornerstone of all our community , up and down the country , alongside their role of provide community and spiritual leadership . like she , I hope that the scheme will continue . I congratulate she and her colleague on write to the Secretary of State , and I hope they will get a response in the near future . on Bedfordshire Day , I want to put on record my appreciation for everyone who work so hard in our county to make it such a wonderful place . that include constituent who be passionate about preserve St Botolph ' s church in Aspley Guise . they be work hard to raise ten of thousand of pound for their tower restoration project and expect work to start early next year . however , they be concerned that without the list place of worship grant scheme , work will become much more expensive and may not be able to proceed . will the Church Commissioner meet I to discuss how we can continue to support historic church such as St Botolph ' s ? I join the hon . gentleman in congratulate all those who work in our community and church . I will be delighted to meet he to see what assistance can be provide for the parish . I understand that St Botolph ' s have a target of £ 175 , 000 for extensive repair to the tower . it have already secure £ 141 , 000 in donation from the local community and be await decision on a number of grant . I congratulate the whole congregation and the community on their fundraising effort to reach that huge figure . the hon . Gentleman make a good point and share a good example of why the scheme be so important . People housebound due to disability : Church Support what step the Church be take to support people that be housebound due to a disability . what step the Church be take to support people that be housebound due to a disability . I welcome the timely question from my hon . friend as we be in the middle of Disability History Month . the Church have start a project to support local parish to adapt their building to make our church more accessible . it include standardise signage to make accessibility obvious , training for church leader and staff , and a grant scheme for adaptation . the Church also continue to develop worship and educational resource , which be available nationally to people who be housebound and their carer . in the report of the archbishop ' commission on reimagine care , which I chair , we recognise the important role of church and faith community in support old and disabled people . the report ask the Church of England to consider develop resource and capacity in local church " to adopt an asset - base approach to engage with disabled people and old people in their community . " can my hon . friend update the House on what action the Church be take to fulfil that recommendation ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for chair the archbishop ' commission . along with the pastoral visit make by clergy , resource be make available nationally for disabled people or those who be housebound . they include Sunday service broadcast online on YouTube , each week from a different parish , which have thousand of unique viewer each week and for which british Sign Language interpretation be available . there be the DailyHope telephone line and the Everyday Faith app , with reading and reflection , which be use by 3 million individual and have be download over 14 million time . there be also the Daily Prayer app , with morning and evening prayer , which have reach over 2 . 75 million unique listener since 2021 . church together South Tyneside do amazing work through its Happy at home hub , provide a range of service to the lonely and the isolated . will my hon . friend expand a little more on the Church ' s wide pastoral duty towards those in the great need ? again , I congratulate my hon . friend on all the wonderful work take place in her constituency . church together group do a fantastic job in tackle the scourge of isolation and loneliness . there be other project that start recently to support parish with the physical accessibility of their building , include church hall and other facility . without the LPW grant scheme , the adaptation of some of our most historic church would be hard to deliver at pace . Historic Church Preservation : northumberland what step the Church be take to ensure the preservation of historic church in Northumberland . the historic church of Northumberland be among the old and most architecturally significant in our country . any church can apply for support from the £ 11 million building for Mission fund . the diocese of Newcastle be very grateful for the support of the Northumbria Historic Churches Trust and other local grant - make body . my hon . friend may also want to encourage his parish to approach some of these excellent charity . St Mary ' s Church in Woodhorn in my constituency have not be in operation for worship since 1973 . it be one of the old , most historic church in Northumberland , if not the country . it be under the care of Northumberland county council now , but it be in a dilapidated state . can my hon . friend give I some advice on who I can contact within the Church to see whether it can support the church to ensure that it be part not just of the history of our wonderful county , but of its future ? my hon . friend rightly highlight that St Mary ' s church in his constituency be one of the old , and it be a charming example of wonderful architecture . I understand some of the challenge that he mention , as the church have be close for a long period of time . it would be wonderful to see church such as that reopen — we would all like to see church open as oppose to close , as many of they be . as a grade I list building on the National Heritage List for England , it be eligible for grant for repair and renovation . I be happy to write to my hon . friend with a list of grant - make body . I will ask Church House for further advice on who he can speak to , as well as work together to see whether we can get his church reopen . it be not just in Northumberland where there be many historic church . the village of Ashby cum Fenby in my constituency have recently show that the local community will come together to support their local church , but vital to that be leadership . with priest spread throughout so many different parish , it become more and more difficult to provide that leadership . can the hon . Lady give an assurance that the Church will do all it can to ensure that our small village be not neglect , and that there be regular service and leadership by the ordain priest ? there be only a tenuous link there , so good luck with that . I agree with you , Mr Speaker , but I congratulate the hon . member on try so diligently on that question . what I will say be that I will happily write to he with a response to that , if that be okay . Al - Ahli Hospital in Gaza what assessment the Church have make of the effectiveness of the Anglican Al - Ahli hospital in Gaza . I be grateful to my hon . friend for turn our attention to Gaza . only 12 of Gaza ' s 36 hospital be still in operation , offer mainly basic care . the Anglican - run Al - Ahli hospital have remain operational despite face huge difficulty , thank to the dedication of its hard - work staff and the leadership of its director , Suhaila Tarazi . last week , it be announce that the hospital be to receive £ 3 . 4 million of support from the UN Development Programme as well as the palestinian American Medical Association , but this vital work can not begin without an immediate ceasefire and a pathway to peace . I thank my hon . friend for her answer . hon . member will have note the progress that have be make on a ceasefire in Lebanon , but , as she have just mention , without a ceasefire in Gaza the £ 3 . 4 million that have be allocate to the Al - Ahli hospital by the UN Development Programme will not be spend . give the scale of the humanitarian crisis , the desperate need for medical aid and the onset of winter , that be likely to lead to far suffering and a great number of death . my hon . friend be absolutely right . we all welcome the ceasefire arrangement between Israel and Lebanon , but we need a ceasefire in Gaza . the community in northern Gaza be reliant on the Anglican Al - Ahli hospital for much of its healthcare . the hospital be see more than 1 , 000 emergency patient a day , and have to use the library and historic church as ward , give that the rest of the hospital have be largely destroy by the israeli force . a ceasefire be essential , but we also need humanitarian aid to get in , as well as vital medical supply , fuel and other resource , so that the rebuilding of infrastructure can begin . we know that there be huge challenge in relation to access be give at checkpoint in Gaza . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 2 December include : Monday 2 December — general debate on the Grenfell Tower inquiry phase 2 report . Tuesday 3 December — Second reading of the National Insurance Contributions ( secondary Class 1 Contributions ) Bill . Wednesday 4 December — opposition day ( 4th allotted day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the official Opposition , subject to be announce . Thursday 5 December — debate on a motion on detain british national abroad , follow by a general debate on improve public transport . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 6 December — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 9 December will include : Monday 9 December — remain stage of the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill . Tuesday 10 December — Committee of the whole House on the Finance Bill ( day 1 ) . Wednesday 11 December — Committee of the whole House on the Finance Bill ( day 2 ) . Thursday 12 December — general debate on Lord Etherton ' s independent review into the treatment of LGBT veteran , follow by a debate on a motion on the performance of the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 13 December — the House will not be sit . I be sure that the whole House will want to join I in wish a very happy Thanksgiving day to all our american friend and family , and a happy big birthday today to the Clerk : the Joe Root of the parliamentary estate . huge thank to he for his stylish and expert first century — half - century , I should say ! Mr Speaker , a man of your wide culture and extensive learning will doubtless be familiar with the film " Mad Max " . I be no expert , but the image that it conjure up of a desolate , chaotic landscape with wreckage strew everywhere be the perfect metaphor for the Government ' s recent Budget . let we take hospice , for example . in Herefordshire , we be bless to have the extraordinary St Michael ' s hospice . St Michael ' s support hundred of in - patient a year with end of life care , and thousand more as out - patient and with visit in the community . it have a dedicated staff , assist by some 800 volunteer . this be extraordinary . I shudder to think what it would cost the state to provide that kind and quality of care — certainly more than £ 20 million a year . what have this Labour Budget do to St Michael ' s hospice ? the change to national insurance alone will cost the hospice an extra £ 250 , 000 next year , but that be only part of it . at the same time , the Budget have directly and indirectly push up the wage bill by a furth £ 450 , 000 . that be £ 700 , 000 annually in extra cost — a vast amount for an organisation that offer incredible care , and actually save the NHS £ 20 million a year . hospice in almost every constituency will be affect , and so be the interest of almost every colleague in this House . this disastrous outcome be clearly never intend by the Treasury . it be another completely unnecessary blunder with potentially tragic consequence . as with GPs , pharmacy and mental health and social care charity , no compensation whatsoever have be offer for this tax raid . when will the Government publish a proper impact assessment and explain why none have be offer ? there be a direct link here to the issue of assist dying . in the word of the Health Secretary , no less , " I do not think that palliative care , end - of - life care in this country be in a condition yet where we be give people the freedom to choose , without be coerce by the lack of support available . " that care be now be deliberately worsen by his own Chancellor . personally , I feel strongly pull in both direction by both side , but one thing no one can be in any doubt about be that the Government have no business try to rush this legislation through the House by proxy . the text of the Bill be publish barely two week prior to our vote tomorrow . no impact assessment or legal issue analysis have be publish . far from public debate precede legislation , legislation have precede debate . that be completely the wrong way around . we can be perfectly clear about this . all member of Parliament be recently send a dossier by the promoter of the Bill entitle , " your question answer " . unfortunately , far from answer key question , the dossier fail even to touch on a whole series of important issue . those include the Bill ' s impact on the medical profession and the relationship between medical staff and patient , its impact on the provision and regulation of the different drug and drug cocktail require , the record to date and protocol to be use in case an initial attempt at assist dying fail , and what the inevitable for - profit industry exploit the new law will look like and how we should feel about it . as the senior judge Sir James Munby highlight , there be a host of question about involve the judiciary in the process and the balance of probability test for coercion . most profoundly of all , there be the question of what choice and dignity actually mean in different context . none of those matter be even mention in the dossier purport to give the answer . whatever one feel about the issue of assist die itself — as I say , I feel very pulled in both direction — this absence of debate , especially with so many new member in the House , be a matter of the grave public concern . as the House well know , the Government themselves be all over the place on the issue . in ask for an assessment of the Bill ' s likely impact on the NHS , the Health Secretary be do exactly the right thing : prepare civil servant and clinician for what could be a huge change and ask they to look at a crucial question that have not even be address , let alone properly answer . as for the Justice Secretary , she be attack by none other than her own labour predecessor Lord Falconer of Thoroton for impose her view , but his lordship somehow miss that she be also make the argument that it be inappropriate in principle for the state to get involve in what many term " assisted suicide " . that too be yet another issue that have barely be discuss . I ask the right hon . Lady whether she share my view that it be a tragedy that colleague be be ask to vote without full and proper consideration of the vital issue I have mention . I join the right hon . gentleman in congratulate the Clerk of the House on his very special birthday . as someone recently on the other side of that same special birthday — obviously , I know I do not look it — I welcome he to the half - century club , and I hope his party be as good as mine be . we will leave that conversation for another day . this week , we mark White Ribbon Day . I be proud that this Government have pledge to halve violence against woman and girl . I be also proud to have announce the debate on Lord Etherton ' s review of the treatment of LGBT veteran today . I be particularly pleased for my friend and Manchester resident Carl Austin - Behan , who , after year of decorate service in the RAF , be dismiss the day the RAF find out he be gay . he deserve recognition and much more , as do many other . I know that the shadow Leader of the House be fairly new to opposition , like most of his colleague , but I gently say to he that the idea of opposition be to oppose the Government , not his own record in government . last week he attack our plan to meet climate goal , yet when he be the Minister with responsibility for decarbonisation , he seem to take a very different view , tour the studio to champion net zero . here we be yet again : he be attack our plan on national insurance contribution , but I check the record and notice that when his government raise national insurance contribution — and not just on business but on worker — he be the Financial Secretary to the Treasury at the time , and say in defence of the measure , from this very Dispatch Box : " it be a profoundly conservative thing to do " — [ Official Report , 8 September 2021 ; Vol . 700 , c . 326 . ] he seem to have be for it then but be against it now . I be not sure what his position be — I be quite confused about it . may I say to the hospice that he mention , and to the many hospice like it , that we have make a record investment in the NHS ? the hospice sector be leave on its knee by the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government . as he know , the Health Secretary will soon come to the House to explain how the record allocation of resource that he have receive will be distribute , include to the hospice sector . the right hon . Gentleman raise the assisted die issue that we will discuss tomorrow . I must say , I think it be regrettable that he have choose this opportunity to raise those matter in such an unnecessarily political fashion . this issue generate very emotive response on both side , and I hope that tomorrow ' s debate will be conduct in a respectful , considerate , non - partisan and non - political manner . he ask about time and scrutiny , which I have mention before . as Leader of the House , I be very confident that the Bill will undergo sufficient scrutiny and will have sufficient time for consideration . as I have say before from the Dispatch Box , the Government will of course implement the will of the House , whatever it may be . and , as I have also say before , should the House choose to give the Bill its second reading , the Government will of course work with the Bill ' s promoter to ensure that the Bill and the policy be workable , operable and implement . that will mean work with the promoter on tidy up any measure where necessary . the Department of Health and Social Care be get to work straightaway on what the Bill will mean in term of implementation , assessment and the documentation that the right hon . Gentleman highlight . should the House decline to give the Bill its second reading , then of course that work would not happen . as I have say before , after several week in Committee , the first opportunity for the Bill to return to the House will not be until the end of April — that be a considerable amount of time for the Government to do that work and consider the Bill far . this year mark the 51st anniversary of the Summerland disaster on the Isle of Man , in which 50 people , include 11 child , lose their life after a fire engulf the Summerland leisure complex . my constituent Valerie Daniels and her young sister be both impact by that horrify tragedy . two young man from Warrington die in the fire . a report into the disaster be release in the follow year and catalogue a series of failure — from the design of the building to the fire safety regulation — but to date no individual or group have be single out for blame for what happen . will my right hon . friend find time for a debate on the issue , so that survivor and the family of those who lose their life can finally get justice ? I be really sorry to hear about that tragedy that affect my hon . friend ' s constituent . these be incredibly pertinent issue , one that we should be debate in this House . she might want to raise they as part of the Grenfell inquiry debate that will take place next week ; if not , I be sure there will be other opportunity for she to raise they . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . yesterday mark Fuel Poverty Awareness Day , and just last week Ofgem unveil another increase to the energy price cap for this winter — an increase of 1 . 2 % in January 2025 . this follow a 10 % rise in October and multiple occasion on which the Government have fail to prioritise energy support for this winter . for example , the warm home discount scheme will not benefit household until 2025 , and financial energy support for 1 . 2 million pensioner be remove under change to the winter fuel payment . recent polling from the Warm this Winter campaign have find that almost half of those poll — 47 % — be worried about how they will stay warm this winter . when can the House expect a statement from the Government on tackle fuel poverty this winter ? I thank the hon . Lady for that question . I also notice that her leader be out on the airwave today with a separate campaign . I wish he well with that and hope that he be not another one - hit wonder when it come to those issue . we have inherit a really difficult situation when it come to energy supply and energy price . as the hon . Lady know , the energy price cap be set by Ofgem , and reflect its consideration of how energy be buy a few month ago . we be take this issue incredibly seriously , which be why we have a plan to get to net zero by 2030 . it be only by switch our energy supply to renewable that we will be able to bring price down for long and have the energy security we so desperately need . the hon . Lady ask about the situation this winter , particularly for pensioner and other . she will know that there be the £ 150 warm home discount , as well as cold weather payment that will get trigger . we have extend the £ 1 billion household support fund into this winter ; that payment of either £ 150 or £ 200 be now be make in place such as Manchester to those on council tax support , so just above the pension credit threshold . we have also see the big ever increase in the number of people apply for pension credit , so we be take action . we will support people this winter , but more importantly , we will take the long - term action that we need to get our energy bill low . liverpool woman ' s hospital in my constituency offer the only specialist gynaecology and maternity service in the country , yet those service be under threat due to the NHS case for change . will the Leader of the House grant a debate in Government time to consider the necessity of retain those specialist service at the current Crown Street site ? I be very familiar with the important service in my hon . friend ' s Liverpool constituency that she describe . the hospital programme we inherit from the previous Government be a work of fiction , and we be determined to make sure that any commitment around local hospital service be both deliverable and fundable . that be what we be set out to do , but I will certainly make sure that the Health Secretary have hear my hon . friend ' s plea today , and that she get a full reply about her local hospital . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thoroughly enjoy my visit to the Leader of the House ' s native city on Saturday night , and I thank her club for the hospitality of allow we to score four goal with none in return . by the way , that make a net aggregate of seven to nil across our visit to Manchester . on behalf of the Backbench Business Committee , I thank the Leader of the House for announce the business for the Chamber . in addition , if we be grant Thursday 19 December , that will be a full day ' s debate on the Christmas recess Adjournment . in Westminster Hall next Tuesday we will debate the domestic production of critical mineral , and on Thursday we will debate pelvic mesh and the Cumberlege review , and then there will be a further debate on the financial sustainability of high education . in addition , Mr Speaker , with your agreement , on Tuesday 10 December there will be a debate on rare autoimmune rheumatic disease . right now , the spiritual leader of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness — it run Bhaktivedanta Manor in Elstree , the large Hindu temple in this country — be under arrest in Bangladesh , and Hindus across Bangladesh be be subject to death , with their house and temple be burn . there be today an attempt in Bangladesh ' s High Court to rule that ISKCON should be ban from the country , which be a direct attack on Hindus . there be now a threat from India to take action , and we have a responsibility because we enable Bangladesh to be free and independent . whatever the change of Government have be in Bangladesh , it can not be acceptable that religious minority be persecute in this way . so far we have have only a write statement from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . could the Leader of the House arrange an oral statement on the Floor of the House so that we can bring to the world ' s attention what be go on in Bangladesh ? I thank the hon . member for that , and I hope he have a good time in Manchester . I do not know whether he be there for the football , but I be at the Man City game on Saturday — the less say about that , the well . if he be look for the allocation of time for future business , he should please not mention the Tottenham game to I ever again , thank you very much . the hon . member raise an important matter , which be also raise with I on a previous occasion by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . we have such a debate today , albeit about Pakistan , and he be absolutely right to highlight these issue . we support freedom of religion or belief everywhere , and that include in Bangladesh . I will certainly ask Foreign Office Ministers to look at come forward with a statement about what be happen to Hindus in Bangladesh . my constituent Amir Khan ' s beloved daughter Sanna be in her first year at university when she die in her sleep from sudden unexpected death in epilepsy , also know as SUDEP . ten people every week die of SUDEP , many of they young people , yet with the right research and more public awareness , this number could be reduce . will the Leader of the House allocate time for a debate on this under - report issue , to give some comfort to family such as Mr Khan ' s ? my hon . friend raise an important issue that have be bring to he by his constituent , and may I send my condolence to Sanna ' s family and friend ? I do not realise quite how many people be affect by SUDEP , and I think this would make a really good Adjournment debate . the Government be commit to support people with epilepsy and their family , but I think he should consider a further debate to highlight these issue . member may recall that large part of Northamptonshire and Bedfordshire be flood after heavy rainfall in September , include Grendon in my constituency . will the Leader of the House ask the Environment Secretary to make a statement to the House on when local authority can expect to receive the extra funding to aid recovery that he promise when he visit my area , give that in the meantime , with Storm Bert , area such as Bugbrooke in my constituency have be flood severely again ? I know that the hon . Member have raise the issue of flooding in her constituency before . I be really pleased that the Environment Secretary come to the House on Monday to give a flooding update to the whole House . if she be in attendance at that statement , she would have hear about the very challenging circumstance of our flood defence that we inherit from the previous Government . we be take quick action to establish the flood resilience taskforce and to put in extra resource for additional flooding support , but I will ensure that he have hear what she have ask . my constituent John and Susan recently get in touch with I about their son Tom . Tom be an autistic man who live in an assist living facility and receive one - to - one support seven day a week . John and Susan tell I that he will never be able to work . Tom ' s benefit be be move from employment and support allowance to universal credit as part of the manage migration process . despite his need not change , Tom will be £ 1 , 300 a year bad off . will the Leader of the House allow time to discuss what assessment the Government have make to ensure that disabled people ' s quality of life be consider throughout the manage migration process ? that sound like an important constituency case , and I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions get my hon . friend a full response on why her constituent be find himself bad off under the manage migration process . if my hon . friend be to apply for an Adjournment debate on that , I be sure she would get it . I have constituent who live on the Somerset level who be 90 year young . they have limit mobility and do not have mobile phone . three month ago BT cut they off in the process of change their landline to digital — something they do not request . they do not even have broadband , and they lose access to their emergency alarm . it take a month of pleading by their son and neighbour , and masse of call . BT say that they be a priority as vulnerable people , but nearly a fortnight ago the landline go off again . Openreach say there be nothing wrong with their copper line , and everyone be try to get they sort out . all they want be a decent service on their landline and their old number back . may we have a debate about what BT ' s priority register actually mean , and how it might improve its service for more vulnerable resident ? for the hon . Lady ' s 90 - year - young constituent such issue be incredibly vital and important . we must ensure that the transition to digital be completely inclusive , and that those who rely on landline and analogue system be also support , especially when they live in a rural community such as the one she describe . I be sure BT will have hear her question , and if not I will ensure that it have and that it get a proper service back to those constituent who need it . my original question be answer in the clear reply from the Leader of the House to the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , but do not worry — I bring a back - up . thank to the Chancellor of the Exchequer , we have £ 50 million of investment for Eden Project Morecambe , and yesterday I speak to Ministers about the importance of renew our high street . may we have a debate on how we ensure that local business and small and medium - sized enterprise thrive in the context of large new attraction such as Eden Project Morecambe ? I thank my hon . friend for that refreshing question — normally as politician we like to repeat question that have come from other , so she have definitely get a gold star for that . as someone who spend many childhood holiday in Morecambe , I be very familiar with it , and I be delighted that the Eden Project , other programme , and the money that the Government have bring in will revitalise that gorgeous seaside town . I be sure she will be able to raise such issue in forthcoming question on many occasion . will the Leader of the House join I in celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Annandale Distillery in my constituency ? build in the 1830 , it be abandon in 1919 , but bring back to life with much love and passion by Professor David Thomson and Teresa Church in 2014 . it now not only produce excellent whisky , but have bring a huge economic benefit for the Annan area and the wide south of Scotland . I join the right hon . Gentleman in celebrate the 10th anniversary of Annandale Distillery . I be not actually invite , but I do get invite to many place — I be a bit of a lightweight and whisky be not my tipple , but I be sure that if I be in the area I will pay it a visit . this Government be pleased to support the Scotch whisky industry , which be why we be provide up to £ 5 million to reduce fee for Scotch whisky , along with other measure . I hope the distillery welcome that . my constituent Jo Pyke be a counsellor at a local cancer charity . she have stage 4 mucosal melanoma . tumour - infiltrate lymphocyte therapy , which be only available in the USA , could save her life . our community be fundraise to get Jo to America , but Jo and many other need that therapy here in the UK . will the Leader of the House use her good office to help Jo fight this awful disease ? I be really sorry to hear of Jo ' s plight . it be awful to have such a terminal and difficult disease , know that although therapy be available , they be not yet available for my hon . friend ' s constituent . I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have hear her question , and I be sure the whole House will support Jo in her fundraising effort to get to America . follow my question in the Chamber last week , I receive confirmation from the Transport Secretary that funding ringfence for a new train station in Aldridge have be move and put towards fund the Labour Mayor ' s pet bus nationalisation project . with that in mind , will the right hon . Lady set aside time for a debate on the restore your railway programme and city region sustainable transport settlement to enable we to have great insight and scrutiny of the Government ' s vision on transport ? at the moment , they be clearly bypass Aldridge . I thank the right hon . Lady , but I do not accept the premise of the question . the Government be do more than ever to ensure that our railway be reliable and accessible . the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill be , I think , to become an Act today . we be also bring forward additional funding for bus , on which the Transport Secretary make a statement to the House , as well as bus reform . part of our agenda for transport be about ensure that local community design those programme for the need of their local area , and it be right that mayor do that . last week , I attend the citizenship network launch at Parliament organise by Citizens UK and meet people from my constituency who come to this country year ago to build a well life . they have live and work here , raise their family here and contribute to society and the economy , and have spend a considerable amount of money they still find themselves unable to become british citizen . will the Leader of the House please make time for a debate in the House to discuss well route to citizenship so that those who be legally entitle to be in this country can become british citizen like the rest of we ? become a british citizen and route to citizenship would make for an excellent Backbench Business debate . as I do not say it early , I will now encourage colleague from across the House to really make use of the Backbench Business Committee and put in application . that would be an excellent application . I have already mention this morning that Bath be a city of music . today mark the release of " love be Enough " , a Christmas song write by six young carer and perform by Bath Philharmonia ' s young carer choir and our liberal Democrat leader — yes , he be branch out into music . More than anything , the release highlight the plight of young carer and the challenge they face , particularly when it come to disruption to their education and social isolation . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Bath Philharmonia ' s young carer choir and wish " love be enough " every success ? I wish the song " love be Enough " from the young carer choir every success in its attempt to get in the chart . I have to say that I be not quite sure what be bad , or well : the leader of the Liberal Democrats in a wetsuit or in a Christmas jumper . I will leave that for the House to decide . I very much welcome the Government ' s recent introduction of respect order , which be much need . indeed , in my constituency of Rossendale and Darwen , we have recently see a big increase in antisocial behaviour , with a spike in place such as rawtenstall bus station and Bacup town centre . do my right hon . friend agree that co - operation be key in such situation ? on the one hand , it be vital that all incident be properly report to police , but , on the other hand , police should be proactively communicate with town centre business and resident , respond visibly to what they be experience and not just rely on arm ' s length datum . with that in mind , will she agree to a debate on effective town centre policing ? yet again , my hon . friend raise a matter that be really important to the constituent of Rossendale and Darwen . he be a regular attender at these session , for which I give he great credit . he will know that just this week we announce new measure to bring in respect order , which will see repeat perpetrator of antisocial behaviour subject to tough restriction . that , together with our plan for an extra 13 , 000 neighbourhood police officer , will help tackle the scourge of antisocial behaviour in many of our town centre . I call the ex - police and crime commissioner . thank you , Mr Speaker . I echo my support for the issue raise hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) — my sister have epilepsy and require lifesave brain surgery when she be young , so I know the impact it have on family and individual . the Leader of the House will know that I previously ask she about the Typhoon assembly line at the Wharton site . since then , I have ask question of Defence Ministers in Ukraine statement ; I have request a meeting with the Secretary of State for Defence ; I have meet the union ; and I have submit a write question to see whether the order for 24 Typhoon jet for the RAF be include in the Budget . it be not , and we have since hear rumour that the RAF may wish to have American - produce F - 35s instead of British - produce Typhoon fighter . I then submit a far write question to ask what the plan be to support business such as BAE Systems to maintain the workforce that they need for the global combat air programme , and I have receive an absolute word salad of an answer talk about partnership work and future procurement strategy . can we have a statement from the Ministry of Defence on its plan for this important area for sovereign defence capability and for job in Fylde and across Lancashire ? it sound like the hon . Gentleman have be incredibly diligent and innovative in all the different way that he have try to get a straight answer . I will look into the example that he have give that have not be quite what he expect . he be in my region , and he be right that the Typhoon be an important part of the north - west defence industry . I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear his full question and I will ask that , at the very least , he get a full reply , if not a statement to the House . Tuesday be a proud day for Aylesbury , as Dylan Bachelet reach the final of the " great British Bake Off " . a former student of Sir Henry Floyd grammar school , age just 20 , he rise to the occasion again and again throughout the series with his dough - lightful creation . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Dylan and thank he for inspire so many young people to achieve their dream ? I love these question . I congratulate Dylan , who I understand Paul Hollywood nickname the " flavour king " . in my office here in the House we have a weekly bake - off , so if Dylan want to participate in or judge it he be welcome any time , but he must bring the cake . oven - ready question be not acceptable . would the Leader of the House grant a general debate in Government time on attitude to ceasefire ? follow the welcome ceasefire in the middle east , Hezbollah supporter there try to claim a victory yesterday , reminiscent of IRA supporter in west Belfast do likewise . could we have a debate to ensure that the general public know that peace be welcome , but not people try to turn peace into a victory parade ? I think we can all welcome the ceasefire in Lebanon and hope that effort for a ceasefire in Gaza be successful soon . at the end of the day , we all want a peaceful solution , and we need a political route to a two - state solution , so a ceasefire be only the beginning of a process . it be really important that trust be maintain and that we can work towards that long - term sustainable peace . if anyone want evidence of what a Labour Government can do , they need look no far than the mineworker ' pension scheme . within week of come into office , the scheme get £ 1 . 5 billion return , which have make a huge difference to nearly 1 , 000 of my constituent . yet the british coal staff superannuation scheme , which be subject to similar arrangement , have not see such a return of fund . could we have a debate in Government time to get to the bottom of this crucial issue ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . one of the Government ' s proud achievement since the election be follow through on their commitment to transfer the mineworker ' pension scheme and all the benefit that it have bring to constituent such as hers . I will raise the issue of the british coal staff superannuation scheme , and I will ensure that she get a full reply . early this week , along with member across the House , I attend the drop - in session organise by the Royal National Institute of Blind People . one of the stand at the session outline the difficulty that blind and partially sight people have in exercise their vote on election day . will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on how blind , partially sight and other disabled people be able to exercise their vote ? much work have be do in recent year , but there be still more to do . I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the accessibility of election , especially for those with visual impairment or who be blind . it be a really important matter . I know that many of those in this House with disability find it difficult to vote here , as well — it get raise with I often . we have Housing , Communities and Local Government question come up next week , and I would encourage the hon . gentleman to raise this matter then . for many new member , tomorrow be the first time we will debate a private Member ' s Bill . together with other mp , I have table a reason amendment that call for an independent review and public consultation before the Bill should return to this House for further debate . will my right hon . friend explain to the House when a reasoned amendment , if select , will be consider , and reassure the House that this would not impact the time available for tomorrow ' s important debate ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , which she and I have discuss in private as well . as we discuss , amendment on Second Reading , while call reason amendment , do open with , " we decline to give this Bill a second reading " ; should the amendment be select , that would mean that the second read debate and vote would not proceed . as I say to the shadow Leader of the House , I say gently to my hon . friend that , as I have say a number of time now at this Dispatch Box , should the Bill pass second Reading , the Government will work with the sponsor Member , my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) , to ensure that the Bill be operable and implementable , and that it will be implement should the House wish it . that work will begin in earnest after Second Reading . should the Bill not pass second Reading , that work would not happen at all . I think hon . member should consider that when consider the principle of the Bill , and not get too bogge down in some of the process . first , I thank the hon . member for Rochdale ( Paul Waugh ) for raise the issue of epilepsy . it be particularly important to I , as many year ago , I wake up in hospital , have have a seizure in my sleep . I know how life - change it can be . in October , as the Leader of the House may remember , I raise the issue of half a million british pensioner overseas whose pension have be freeze . many of those pensioner be originally from my constituency , and I have hear from further former resident since that occasion . the Leader of the House kindly offer to raise it with the relevant Government Departments . on behalf of the campaign , Anne Puckridge — a former war veteran who have be affect — be come over next week for her 100th birthday , and have hope to meet with lead politician , include my own party leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , who will be meet she next week . unfortunately , I have hear this morning that the Prime Minister have decline to meet Anne , and be refer she to the Pensions Minister . I appreciate that , but Anne be very disappointed , as she feel that this issue really need to be tackle by the Prime Minister , and she want he to hear what she have to say . I wonder if the Leader of the House could perhaps make further representation to the Prime Minister to see whether he will meet Anne . I be sure the hon . Lady can appreciate that the Prime Minister ' s diary be not under my control , and be also incredibly busy . however , I will make sure that the Pensions Minister be able to meet her constituent when she come over next week , and I will certainly ensure that the Prime Minister be aware of this matter , and that the Pensions Minister look into it properly . the campaign for justice for the WASPI — Women against State Pension Inequality — woman have be truly commendable . I want to pay tribute to the tireless effort of campaigner , include Angela Madden , as well as around 6 , 000 woman in my constituency who have be affect . follow the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s finding of maladministration early this year , those woman be still wait for clarity on the Government ' s response , particularly regard timely and fair compensation . will the Leader of the House join I in praise the WASPI campaigner for their dedicated work , which have be amazing , and support my request to the Department for Work and Pension for an update on the progress be make to address the ombudsman ' s finding ? I certainly will share my hon . friend ' s congratulation to the WASPI woman , who have show themselves to be some of the most formidable campaigner this country have see for a very long time , and to Angela Madden , his constituent . as he know , the ombudsman ' s report be publish in March . it be a very serious , thorough and consider report that require proper consideration from the Government . that work be be undertake as we speak . I will ensure that Parliament be the first to know of the Government ' s response . Madam Deputy Speaker , you may know that I have long campaign for the interest of the british nuclear test veteran , young man who , long before our life , devoted part of their young life to witness the first nuclear test , follow which their blood and urine be test , presumably to see the effect that radiation have on they . those record have be declassify , yet be not clearly available to remain veteran and not available at all to their love one . may we have a statement on the matter from the Secretary of State for Defence , who , I understand , be not unsympathetic ? the Prime Minister , when he be Leader of the Opposition , promise those veteran accountability and justice . they deserve nothing less . the plight of the nuclear test veteran be one that gather wide support across the House . in fact , it be raise just last week with the Prime Minister , in his statement on the G20 , by my hon . friend the Member for Salford ( Rebecca Long Bailey ) . he reiterate his personal commitment , and that of the Secretary of State for Defence , to work with the family and the veteran themselves to look at issue around record and other matter , such as medal . I will ensure that the House be inform of any progress in this area . cumbernauld airport in my constituency have be in the application process for vital instrument approach procedure for over 10 year . it have be subject to many delay by the Civil Aviation Authority and have be delay yet again . this ongoing delay to the approval of the global navigation satellite system be put future commercial operation at the airport at risk . may we have a debate in Government time on the importance of local airfield to the delivery of public service ? local aviation and local airfield be very important to local economy and the infrastructure of this country . I be sorry to hear of the long delay over many year , as my hon . friend describe , to her local airfield . I will ensure that the Transport Secretary have hear her question today and that she get a full reply about Cumbernauld airport . I thank the Leader of the House again for this opportunity to raise an issue of urgent concern . early this week , on Tuesday past , I have the privilege of meet Pastor Youssef Ourahmane , who share troubling case in Algeria . Pastor Youssef have be convict of so - call " illegal worship " for lead his church . he face a prison sentence and heavy fine , despite a lack of evidence of any wrongdoing . his case be one of approximately 50 spurious case against Christians in Algeria in recent year , amid a systematic campaign of force church closure . will the Leader of the House urge her Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office colleague to make a statement on what step the UK Government can take , in collaboration with international partner , to advocate for the reopening of all evangelical church in Algeria and to support religious freedom globally , include raise this issue with algerian authority at the very early opportunity ? yet again , the hon . Gentleman have raise a serious issue relate to religious freedom . we regularly monitor the situation in Algeria , and we be aware that some group have find it difficult to obtain the permission that they need in order to operate . we will continue to raise these matter with the algerian authority . I note that the hon . Gentleman have be successful in obtain a Backbench Business debate this afternoon on freedom of religion in Pakistan ; I be sure he will continue to proffer considerable number of application to the Backbench Business Committee , and this too might be a good topic for a debate . huge congratulation be due to the volunteer and voluntary group who receive the prestigious King ' s Award early this month , include six in Northumberland and one in my constituency : the Empire school of boxing , lead by the phenomenal Les Welsh . may we have a debate in Government time to allow other member to express their gratitude to the volunteer and voluntary group in their area ? after all , they be the cornerstone of all our constituency . I join my hon . friend in congratulate the winner of the King ' s Award . I know from recipient in my own constituency how much it mean to people to receive such a prestigious award from the King , and the boxing school in my hon . friend ' s constituency sound like a worthy winner . the contribution of volunteer to our community be often raise in business question , so I think that if member come together for a debate — and I see that the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , be present — it would be very well attend . I be sure the Leader of the House will agree that patient , public and staff should be properly consult when significant change be be make to local NHS service , and that the NHS make well decision when it listen properly to the view of patient and the public , but unfortunately that have not be the case in my constituency recently . significant change be be propose at Furness general hospital with no consultation at all . may we please have a debate to consider the NHS ' s duty to consult and the importance of listen to the view of local people when it be make decision ? this matter be important to my hon . friend ' s constituent and to many other . as she say , NHS England should be pay careful attention to the need of local community and listen to local community voice when consider reorganisation or change in service in any area . my hon . friend ' s be the second question of this kind that I have be ask today , and I be sure that be she to apply for a debate , it would be very well attend . three woman a week commit suicide because of male violence against woman , two woman a week be kill by their current or former partner , and nearly four in 10 girl attend mixed school have experience some form of sexual harassment . in the year to March , there be 11 , 000 complaint about violence against woman and girl on public transport . White Ribbon Day , which we mark early in the week , send the clear message that deal with this start with man and the education of man . give that it be clearly a cross - Government issue , may we have a debate in Government time on cross - Government solution ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue in the week of White Ribbon Day . this Government be absolutely committed to the challenging and ambitious target of halve violence against woman and girl over the come year , with a cross - Government taskforce already look into how we can deliver on that mission . it include education , as my hon . Friend mention , because , as he rightly point out , the campaign start with man . we will shortly introduce , in the Policing and Crime Bill , some of the measure that we have specify , such as a new criminal offence of spike . I look forward to debate they with my hon . friend . member from across the House value and appreciate the vital work do by everyone work for the Ministry of Defence — not only our brave armed force , but the Ministry ' s many dedicated civilian staff . however , the Ministry ' s permanent secretary indicate , without have consult trade union , that there be a plan to shed 10 % of the workforce — that is 5 , 000 job — by the end of the Parliament . will the Leader of the House please grant a debate in Government time on the importance of civilian staff in the MOD , and ask the Defence Secretary to meet the public and Commercial Services Union on this important matter ? I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Defence have hear my hon . friend ' s question . he make a statement to the House last week , or the week before — it be certainly very recently — about change that we be make as part of our ongoing work on the strategic defence review . to be clear , the defence budget have be increase in this Labour Government ' s Budget , but we need to make sure that the resource be deploy on meet the need of modern warfare . that be why the strategic defence review be so important . local newspaper such as the Southern Daily Echo play a crucial role in inform and champion our local community . they also play an important role in hold to account business , public body and , of course , politician . in place such as Southampton , however , journalist be increasingly be subject to legal threat and intimidation , particularly through strategic lawsuit against public participation , which be often use by big business . do the Leader of the House agree that a free press be a fundamental pillar of our democracy , and do she support my call for more to be do to support our local medium against intimidation and technique such as slapp ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend that journalism and a free press be a fundamental pillar of our democracy , and that local journalism be an absolutely vital and trusted source of fact and truth in an age of misinformation and disinformation . indeed , we see the local press play a very important role over the summer during the riot , give the misinformation that be spread at the time . she be absolutely right to raise the issue of slapp and the consequence that they can have for local newspaper , such as those in her constituency . I think we have a Backbench Business debate on this issue recently , but I be sure that it will crop up time and again . visit Hepworth junior and infant school , and Salendine Nook high school , during Parliament Week be inspiring . the student ' enthusiasm for learn about democracy be evident in their thoughtful question and active participation . it be clear that early engagement be crucial for foster inform future citizen . can we have a debate in Government time about child ' s involvement in the democratic process ? my hon . friend be right to raise Parliament Week and the vital role that it play in educate our young people about the important institution of our democracy , include Parliament . I do not know how many event he have in his constituency , but I have 37 in mine . I believe that , yet again , Mr Speaker be top of the list for number of event in his constituency . my hon . friend will know that this Government have instigate an independent curriculum and assessment review . citizenship education , and ensure an education for life , be absolutely vital if we be to uphold our democratic institution in the future . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) for mention " Bake Off " . we need to give a shout - out to the excellent Georgie from Wales , who win the competition and whose star be surely on the rise . across my constituency of Monmouthshire , there be home and village without any broadband connection , include Whitebrook , which literally have no connection whatsoever . in some community , such as the village of Llangwm , the provider be totally inadequate . I know how frustrating it can be to have no internet . I have be on a Zoom call when my child be play on their Xbox , and we have a bit of a row because I have to ask they to get off . in an emergency or life - threaten situation , it be extremely difficult if people can not make a phone call or get online . I recognise the excellent work that the Government be undertake to expand access to broadband across Britain through Project Gigabit , but I worry for small rural community that have yet to be reach . will the Leader of the House find Government time for a debate on rural broadband ? my hon . friend be right to say that broadband be now a vital utility , as important as electricity , water and all the other thing on which people rely , especially in rural community like hers . I empathise with she on the battle for broadband bandwidth at home . I be afraid that this Government inherit quite a slow roll - out of full - fibre gigabit broadband . we need to accelerate the programme to make sure that rural community like hers have the broadband access that they need , so that they can download a few more recipe , and maybe win the bake - off competition that the House be look forward to . my constituent Nicola Holdsworth sadly lose her mum a few year ago and struggle with grief . she be tell that it would take eight month to see a grief counsellor , so she set up the Morley Grief Group . the organisation have go from strength to strength in help people in our community , and it now have more than 800 member . local gps refer people to it , and it recently win the community award at the BBC Radio Leeds " make a difference " award . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to Nicola and the Morley Grief Group , and will she allow Government time for a debate on the need for more grief counsellor — and , of course , the need to support volunteer organisation like Nicola ' s ? I thank Nicola for set up the Morley Grief Group at what must have be a very difficult time . she turn her grief into an award - win voluntary group that support other . my hon . friend be right to raise the importance of grief counselling . provision of these service be too slow , which be why many people rely on voluntary and charity organisation . I be sure that this would make a very good topic for a debate . in some part of my constituency , particularly Cowdenbeath , there have be a reported rise in violent and antisocial behaviour . such behaviour be unacceptable and cause fear , injury and damage to property . I have write to the Scottish Government urge action . they must use some of the additional £ 3 . 4 billion from the Budget for next year to properly fund our local police . do the Leader of the House agree that the SNP should also learn from Labour ' s new respect order , which will clamp down on antisocial behaviour and the menace of off - road bike in England ? will she grant a debate in Government time to discuss these issue ? my hon . friend be right to say that the Scottish Government have huge additional fund as a result of last month ' s Budget . they have the power , so they have no excuse not to tackle issue face by her constituent in Cowdenbeath . the Scottish Government can certainly learn lesson from this government , particularly on respect order and from the work that we be do to tackle antisocial behaviour . have send birthday wish to the Clerk of the House , will the Leader of the House extend her congratulation to the 1st Neilston boy brigade on its 70th birthday ? it be a vibrant boy brigade at the heart of village life , give great experience to young people in my constituency . will she make Government time available to discuss the role that uniformed youth organisation play in our constituency ? she will know that many of these group be struggle with heating bill , and have difficulty meet the demand from parent , who want their child to have the experience that these organisation offer . finally , if the Leader of the House have any birthday wish leave in her reserve , will she extend they to the 121st Glasgow scout group in Clarkston and the 3rd barrhead scout group on their centenary ? if the House will indulge I , I congratulate the 1st Neilston boy brigade on its 70th birthday , and the 121st Glasgow scout group and the 3rd barrhead scout group on their 100th birthday . my hon . friend highlight the vital role that uniformed youth organisation play in give our young people purpose , experience , teamwork and volunteering opportunity ; we all see that in our constituency . we see their contribution every year on Remembrance Sunday , as I do recently in my constituency . I pay tribute to these group for bring our community together . I agree with the comment about uniformed association , which be absolutely true . one of the defining feature of recent year have be the cost of living crisis , which have have soar energy bill at its heart . while the energy price cap have offer people some protection , a loophole mean that many heat network user still face significant price hike . this issue be feature on the BBC ' s " rip off Britain " last week . Hannah and Lucie in my Edinburgh South West office have do excellent work support resident who have this problem in Harvesters Way , Wester Hailes and the Green in Longstone . the Government be commit to address the inequality those resident face in January 2026 . that be a positive step , but many resident feel that progress be still too slow . if we have to wait a year , I be keen that we make good use of that time . will the Leader of the House commit to a debate in Government time to help inform the development of the plan change ahead of 2026 ? my hon . friend be right that Ofgem will be appoint the heat network regulator . Ofgem ' s power will include an ability to investigate unfair pricing and ensure that a consumer ' s heat supply be maintain if their supplier go out of business . I be sure that he will want to take the opportunity to raise this important issue at the next energy question , in a couple of week ' time . I join my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) in congratulate all the voluntary group receive the King ' s award for voluntary service during the King ' s birthday celebration this year . I want to pick out Halesowen in Bloom , a fantastic community organisation in my constituency that have be make the town beautiful for a number of year . it have plant rose in the town centre and make place from canal boat to churchyard look really amazing . will the Leader of the House arrange for a debate in Government time that allow we to recognise the importance of horticulture to the wellbeing of our community , and to congratulate organisation like Halesowen in Bloom , which do such a brilliant job ? Halesowen in Bloom sound like another great community group that play a vital role in my hon . friend ' s area by bring together people with green finger , give people purpose — not just the volunteer — and create a lovely , floral community . I be sure that if he band together with colleague , he could get a Backbench Business debate , in which he could put on record our thank to all volunteer like those in Halesowen in Bloom . I have be work tirelessly with industry leader and transport minister to secure the future of the fantastic Hitachi train factory in Newton Aycliffe , which be home to hundred of high - tech manufacturing job , but be leave in the lurch by the dither and delay of the previous Tory Government . can I secure a debate in Government time on how we build a sustainable future for our proud rail manufacturing industry , and rescue it from the mess it be leave in by the Conservatives ? I could not have say that well myself . the Hitachi train factory and other be leave in the lurch by the previous Government . this Government be commit to support rail manufacturing in the UK . we be develop a long - term strategy , and work on our industry strategy , to ensure that this manufacturing can continue . a number of my constituent live on St John ' s Road in Chew Moor have contact I recently about flooding , potentially cause by ongoing work by Network Rail and its contractor on the nearby railway line . I welcome spade in the ground to improve infrastructure across the north — infrastructure that have be neglect for far too long — but will the Leader of the House find Government time for a debate on how we ensure that developer have to work with local community to minimise disruption to local people ' s life ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I be pleased that the rail route between Wigan and Bolton , which I know well , be be upgrade and electrify . he be right to say that where work be take place , contractor have to work with local community , and resolution should be reach swiftly . I will ensure that the Transport Secretary have hear his question and give he a swift reply . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I clarify something I say early in response to my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) ? she ask I about a reason amendment in tomorrow ' s debate ; I say that it would have the effect that I describe " if select " , but I mean to say " if pass " . UK Leadership on Sudan with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement about the UK ' s focus on Sudan during the UK ' s presidency of the UN Security Council this month and about the humanitarian emergency in Sudan . eighteen month into this devastating conflict , the war that begin as a power struggle between the sudanese armed force and the Rapid Support Forces have become one of the world ' s bad humanitarian catastrophe . nearly 25 million people — half of Sudan ' s population — be in urgent need of humanitarian assistance . Sudan ' s neighbour be also struggle under the strain of hundred of thousand of refugee . the UK be use every lever , include through our role on the UN Security Council , to convene the international community to alleviate suffering , pursue peace and hold those responsible for atrocity to account . on 12 November , Lord Collins chair an open meeting of the Security Council , call for urgent measure to protect civilian . on Monday last week , the Foreign Secretary bring together partner in New York to agree on collective action to pressure the war party , remove barrier to humanitarian operation and ensure aid reach those in desperate need . in partnership with Sierra Leone , the UK introduce a Security Council resolution that call for protection of civilian and full , unimpeded aid access . I be appal that one country choose to block that vital resolution . Russia ' s veto be a disgrace , but let I be clear : Russia ' s action will not deter we . we will continue to use our role as UN Security Council penholder on Sudan to drive forward action to safeguard civilian and deliver lifesave aid . the decision to keep the Adre border crossing open for three more month be welcome , but that must become permanent and it must be free of deliberate bureaucratic obstacle impose by the SAF that be cost life . the RSF must also heed international humanitarian law ; indeed , all war party have no excuse but to do so . without urgent support , even more sudanese people will die , not only from bomb and bullet , but from starvation , preventable illness and exposure . I meet some of those who have flee from Sudan to South Sudan . what they tell I about wade through floodwater for hour , child die from diarrhoea in the rain and their desperation to find food will never leave I . that be why the UK be double its aid this year , provide an additional £ 113 million to support people in Sudan and those who have flee to neighbouring country that be so generously host large number of displace people . the funding will allow our partner to deliver food , water , shelter and healthcare where it be need most . as part of that uplift , we be also provide £ 10 million to Education can not wait , give 200 , 000 vulnerable child in refugee and host community a safe space to learn and support for their mental health as they endure this traumatic crisis . the people of Sudan face a humanitarian emergency of horrify proportion . under our presidency of the Security Council , the UK be rally international action . we be steadfast in our commitment to the sudanese people to secure humanitarian access , pursue peace and deliver hope for a more stable and prosperous future . this government will continue to do everything in our power , with our partner , to bring this devastating conflict to an end . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . I welcome this statement not least because it provide an opportunity to highlight what be a humanitarian catastrophe . yesterday , I be fortunate to meet representative of the World Food Programme . from speak to they and to other in the sector , I know how crucial it be that we continue to raise the importance of this issue and to keep the situation in our mind . this war , which be drive by a man - make power struggle , have already result in the world ' s bad hunger and displacement crisis . it be , as I say early , a humanitarian catastrophe . any further deterioration of the humanitarian situation in Sudan will have dire consequence . there be already 25 million people — half the entire population of Sudan — in urgent need of assistance . eleven million people have have to flee from their home , and 7 million need urgent food assistance . there be report of systematic human right abuse , include sexual violence , torture and mass civilian casualty . what have be happen in Darfur be also incredibly disturbing . the situation in Sudan be unconscionable . red line be be cross in the prosecution of this conflict that country such as the UK — the penholder on Sudan at the UN Security Council — can not allow to stand . it be also firmly in the region ' s interest for the conflict to come to an end and the humanitarian crisis to be address . further destabilisation in the region cause by this conflict must be avoid . sadly , we be all well aware of the knock - on effect in the surround country . the UK have already invest a great deal of diplomatic energy into try to bring about a cessation of hostility and to press for unhindered , safe humanitarian access to Sudan . the previous Government also invest heavily in aid to Sudan to alleviate the suffering . I would like to take a second to pay tribute to my constituency neighbour , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , who be not in his place today , for the leadership that he have show in response to this crisis and for his commitment in government to the people of Sudan . we understand that the new Government have announce further aid measure , which of course be welcome , but I would be grateful if the Minister could provide further detail to the House on which trust organisation she have partner with for her emergency aid package . we note that she have say that the package will provide food , water , shelter and healthcare where it be most need , but can she provide specific example of the aid item she hope it will deliver and at which area of Sudan she envisage it be target ? the Minister will no doubt be fully seize of the problem of get aid into Sudan in the first place , let alone the challenge of distribution . can she assure the House that everything possible be be do to ensure that this aid can be genuinely effectively distribute ? what recent conversation have she have with partner to encourage other country to provide support to the humanitarian response ? turn to the war party , our position remain that there must be an immediate cessation of hostility . we understand that the resolution the Government introduce at the UN Security Council with Sierra Leone be thwart by Russia . however , we would welcome a further update on other avenue the Government be actively pursue , include back the Jeddah process . the Government and our ally need to be work around the clock to press the war party into a ceasefire and to exert whatever pressure they can to see the lifting of arbitrary obstacle to humanitarian aid delivery . in conclusion , I be sure the Minister will agree that the status quo in Sudan be not sustainable and that it must change . the UK have a leadership role here . we must use it to its full extent . I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for her remark and her clear concern about the situation . I hope that a loud and clear message have be send that there be cross - party concern about what be go on . I be very encouraged by how she describe the situation and the need for the UK leadership that we be determined to deliver . I be very encouraged to hear that the right hon . Lady have meet representative of the World Food Programme to discuss these matter . I , too , meet a number of its operative when I be in South Sudan . they be work incredibly hard to get in the support that be need . in fact , there be some coverage of this on the BBC this morning — very welcome coverage , give that there have not be a huge amount of medium coverage of the situation — include interview with some of the operative . the right hon . Lady talk about the grow body of evidence of serious atrocity and violation of human right . the UK Government be extremely concerned about that . we be determined to ensure that we have a renewal of the mandate for the fact - find mission . we be pleased that it be renew , this time with increase support from african nation . it be important to get a picture of what be really happen , so that there be no impunity . the right hon . Lady rightly refer to the regional impact . we have see the impact on South Sudan , Chad and a number of other country , include country that be already in difficult situation in term of food security . she talk about the work of the previous Government , for which I be grateful . as I say , this be a cross - party issue . we be determined to intensify that work , give the deteriorate situation , and to work with other partner to push this forward . we have see leadership right across the UK on this issue , include from her Royal Highness the Duchess of Edinburgh on her visit to Chad , which follow that of the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) . the right hon . Lady ask about the package for delivery of aid . we be work with UN agency and Education can not wait on target support for vulnerable child . she mention the need for specific form of support . we have ensure that our aid , include water and sanitation support , be be deliver in a way that recognise the prevalence of violence against woman and girl . disturbingly , many people in internally displace person camp , and in refugee situation , have be subject to that violence , so we have ensure that our support be tailor and effective . the right hon . Lady ask about other country we be seek to work with . we have take the matter up repeatedly with the African Union and work to ensure that there be that engagement . the African Union be keen to work with we on this issue , and I have raise it in a number of bilateral engagement , as have many other UK Ministers . the right hon . Lady talk about the Jeddah process . it have be extremely frustrating that we have not see all party to the conflict engage in those attempt to broker peace . we have be clear that they must participate . their failure to engage with a number of process be effectively lead to a humanitarian emergency in Sudan . there have be forum shopping , and that must end . I call the Chair of the International Development Committee . yesterday , in the Committee ' s session on Sudan , Dr Eva Khair , director of the Sudan Transnational Consortium , make it clear that we should regard this not as a civil war but as a war on civilian , and she be right . since April 2023 , when the war start , 61 , 000 people have be kill , with 11 million people internally displace — nearly a quarter of the population . fourteen region be at risk of famine , and the UN ' s fund be only 57 % fund . I welcome the personal involvement of both the Foreign Secretary and the Minister for Development , but I seek assurance that that commitment will continue , because we be the penholder and a former colonial administrator , which mean that we have special duty when it come to Sudan . will the Minister give assurance about how she be convene the international community to stop the war and , importantly , to involve civil society in the debate ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise those important issue and for the work of the Select Committee on these matter , include its recent hearing . she be right that the conflict have have a dreadful impact on civilian . we be determined to use every multilateral and bilateral mechanism and relationship that we have to seek the end to the conflict that be so desperately need , an end to the restriction on humanitarian aid , and an end to the atrocity be perpetrate against civilian . she talk about the UN mechanism . we be determined to keep exercise leadership . as I say , Russia ' s veto will not hold we back from continue to push hard to advance these issue . we be determined to make a change on they . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement and for the UK ' s work at the UN Security Council this past month . the Liberal Democrats welcome effort to secure a ceasefire in Sudan and join member from all side of the House in condemn Russia ' s attempt to stop one . the UK should not accept that the consequence of the Russia veto be that we can not act to protect civilian , so what action be the Government take ? give that we can act and we do not have to wait , will they consider a UK Sudan - wide no - fly zone , build on the one in place in Darfur ? do the Minister agree that we should not bestow legitimacy on war group ? I understand that the RSF be day away from claim that it be form a government . if it do , do she agree that it will be civilian who lose out ? we will shortly pass the rotate presidency on to the US . will the Minister update the House on what conversation she and her colleague have have with UN counterpart to ensure that this brutal conflict , which sadly have be ignore , be bring to an end so that civilian be protect ? with the inauguration of President Trump just week away , what representation have we make against the division of Sudan ? will the Minister commit to do all she can to raise the profile in the UK of that conflict ? when my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , raise the conflict at Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister agree that " it be an important issue " and that he do " not think we discuss it enough in this House " — [ Official Report , 30 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 806 . ] will the Minister join the Liberal Democrats in call on the Disasters Emergency Committee to start an appeal , just as it do recently for the middle east ? the committee previously communicate to our spokesperson in the other place , Lord Purvis of Tweed , that this conflict be not deem high - profile enough to start one . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for the issue he raise . he will no doubt be aware that there be a UK arm embargo for all of Sudan , and there be also a UN arm embargo on Darfur . I hope that that help fill out some of the multilateral and bilateral work that the UK have be engage in on embargo . on the engagement of the armed group — the war party — particularly in peace talk , I have discuss that matter at length with a number of member of civil society . relate that to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , many of those civilian group be very concerned that they need to be involve in the peace talk . I meet a number of their representative in Addis Ababa , particularly of the civil society group Tagadum , which we be support because that civilian voice be incredibly important . more generally , as I mention before , we also believe that all war party must prioritise take part in the talk that be so necessary to end this conflict . the hon . Gentleman ask whether we have have discussion around the US ' s role . I discuss that directly with the US lead on humanitarian issue . in fact , we be involve in joint session at the UN General Assembly on the matter . finally , he mention the key issue of the profile of the emergency in Sudan — the large number of displace people anywhere in the world . Sudan be one of the first issue I want to be brief on and active on when I come into my role . it be the reason I visit South Sudan over the summer . I know many member and , indeed , many of our constituent be deeply concerned about the situation . I be pleased that we be see more medium coverage . of course , when it come to a Disasters Emergency Committee appeal , that be a decision for the broadcaster to take , but I hope the renew interest we be see in the medium will lead to its gain a high profile . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for Africa , I have raise the terrible conflict in Sudan on a number of occasion . too often , it have feel like a forget conflict , despite the scale of suffer there , so I welcome the Minister ' s leadership on that issue . she talk about the regional impact . what step have she take to support South Sudan , Chad and Egypt ? how be she engage with grassroots group in South Sudan so that their voice be hear as we try to move towards a solution to that terrible conflict ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise those issue , and I thank she and many other member gather here for their leadership on they . she mention the situation in neighbouring country . I be aware that in Chad , South Sudan and Egypt there be large number of refugee from Sudan . we have discuss those matter with representative from each of those country . we be see quite different profile in the relative economic circumstance of refugee in those country and in how they be be support . I know that in Egypt there be a determination to support people , as indeed there be in South Sudan and in Chad . on conversation with civil society organisation in South Sudan , I have have a number of discussion — particularly with woman ' s right organisation there — about the conflict , and I have speak directly with some of those who have flee Sudan . I have speak with representative from Chad about it as well . we must be conscious that , as I mention , many of those country already face significant challenge in food insecurity , economic development and the impact of the climate crisis , and now they be deal with this major influx of refugee . we must pay tribute to they for enable those refugee to seek safety and security within their border . we come now to a member of the International Development Committee . I very much welcome the statement and the increase focus on Sudan . evidence give to the International Development Committee be clear that those in Sudan feel that the conflict have be forget and ignore , partly because it have receive so little international medium attention . anything that can change that be welcome . I commend to the Minister the evidence that the Committee take this week , which set out that the most effective way of deliver aid be through local group on the ground . more widely , what engagement have the UK have with the United Arab Emirates in particular , give their huge influence in that conflict ? I thank the right hon . member for raise those incredibly important issue . I be pleased that an fcdo official engage in that meeting , which I know be a helpful exchange of information . the right hon . member talk about the local group engage in deliver humanitarian support . when I have meet representative of such group — particularly the so - call emergency response room — I have be incredibly move by their bravery , courage and absolute selflessness in get support to those who need it . they be resolutely non - partisan in support their community , and be a real sign of co - operation in action , in the hard possible circumstance . I pay tribute to they . the right hon . member talk about the influence of other country in this situation , and mention the UAE . as he will be aware , a number of country be concerned about this situation , and we have have bilateral conversation , include my own discussion , with representative from the UAE and other country elsewhere in the Gulf . I call another member of the International Development Committee . I thank the Minister for her update . part of the reason that Sudan be become not just a devastating conflict but a protract one be the involvement of state and non - state actor from elsewhere in Africa , the middle east and far afield . do she consider Sudan to be a foreign policy priority as well as a humanitarian priority , and what diplomatic action be the Department take with the war party and their backer to urge de - escalation ? yes , to use the word of my hon . friend — who of course have considerable experience in the area of humanitarian emergency — this be a foreign policy priority for the UK Government . that be demonstrate by the recent leadership of the Foreign Secretary at the Security Council . it will continue to be a foreign policy priority , as have be make very clear by the Foreign Secretary and , indeed , by the Prime Minister . we will continue to use every lever available to we to ensure that we be speak up for the people of Sudan and do all we can to secure an end to this dreadful conflict . the current war in Ukraine and the battle between Israel and the terrorist from Lebanon and Gaza be regularly report to this House , yet more civilian be be kill in Sudan than in all these other conflict . this conflict have be largely ignore across this House and in our medium , so I warmly welcome the Minister ' s statement today and support it completely . now , of course , an end to hostility have to be secure , but equally , those responsible for human right abuse need to be bring to justice at the International Criminal Court or the International Court of Justice . what action be the Minister go to take to make sure that happen ? I thank the hon . member for his kind word . as we can see , there be considerable concern about this situation right across the House ; we need to be work together on this emergency , and I have certainly find the Opposition to be keen to do so . the hon . member talk about the need to ensure there be not impunity for the atrocity that we be currently see . that be absolutely a priority of the UK Government . as I have mention , we be really determined to ensure the renewal of the fact - find mission , and I pay tribute to the previous Government for have manage to secure the initial mission . there be some suggestion that it might be difficult to get it renew , but we actually see an increase in support for it — two african country back it , which be really encouraging . we be determined to work right across the board to ensure that there be no impunity , but above all , that the voice of people on the ground be hear . that also involve back civil society , which again , the new Government be do . I commend my right hon . friend ' s statement , as well as the work do by the Foreign Secretary at the United Nations , despite the failure of the resolution . eleven million displaced people be a staggering number ; some 2 million have go to neighbouring country and , specifically , 1 million have be displace to Egypt . the regional and global consequence of that displacement be huge , so how can the UK assist those country , particularly Egypt , which may also face the prospect of refugee from Gaza ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise this matter . the word that he use be absolutely correct : we have see a staggering movement of people , both internally within Sudan and , as he mention , to neighbouring country . we have have a number of discussion with those country about the challenge that this displacement have pose . they have , of course , keep their border open to enable those flee such an appalling conflict to seek sanctuary , but we need to make sure their voice be hear . that be why we have ensure that we have listen to those country ' concern about these matter , particularly in our delivery of support . the education can not wait support that I have talk about be also support child in host community . I thank the Minister for come to the Chamber today to make this important statement . unspeakable atrocity have take place and be take place in Sudan , and the humanitarian disaster that have follow be horrific , both in its nature and its scale . in that light , my SNP colleague and I welcome the additional £ 113 million in aid that the Minister have promise . however , I must press she on three specific point . first , can the Minister tell we whether the overall aid budget will increase accordingly , or be this simply move money from one budget head to another ? that be an important point . secondly , although this aid be welcome , it be insufficient . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Melksham and Devizes ( Brian Mathew ) , call for a no - fly zone ; can the Minister say what specific measure and action she be take to prevent these atrocity in Sudan , beyond the provision of aid ? finally , only moment ago , the Minister say that she be appal by Russia ' s veto of a Security Council resolution , and that that veto be a disgrace . on that , she be absolutely right , but will she commit to consistent UK leadership in condemn UN Security Council member who veto humanitarian resolution go forward ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his question . on the overall aid budget , I can assure he that this be not just shift fund around . if he look at the programme budget for the fcdo for this year , 2024 - 25 , compare with next year , 2025 - 26 , he will see that there be an increase of £ 450 million . of course , we be inherit a situation where there have be huge turbulence within the aid budget , particularly because of the increase in in - donor refugee cost under previous government , but we be determined to get a grip of that turbulence and have a much more planned approach for the future . the hon . Member ask about the measure be take beyond aid . I have talk about the arm embargo , and we be engage in many diplomatic effort . because he specifically highlight atrocity prevention , I will also mention that the Minister for Africa , Lord Collins , host an event with his dutch counterpart at the UN General Assembly that be specifically about conflict - relate sexual violence . we be determined to ensure that the voice of those woman and girl who have be impact be hear , and that we be take action against it . of course , the UK be determined to be absolutely consistent when it come to the prevention of access to aid during conflict , and the hon . Member have see that from this Government . I call another member of the Select Committee . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . many member of the Select Committee , myself include , have hear of the role that online disinformation and hatred have play in some of the atrocity in Sudan . what leadership can the UK demonstrate in help to quell some of this digital fuel on the fire in the war against sudanese civilian ? my hon . friend raise a really important point . we be indeed see a huge amount of misinformation circulate , and a lot of it be digital . that be why we have be determine to support the Centre for Information Resilience , a research body that be gather open - source evidence about the ongoing fighting . where the fact about what be go on be be manipulate , that be link to fuel violence , so it be important that we see continued support for reliable information and evidence in this context and also that we combat that disinformation , which have be so damaging . the war in Sudan be plainly appalling . I hear that 14 million people have be displace , but 11 million be also an appalling figure . as I understand it , this start out as a war between the general in charge of the armed force and the general in charge of the Rapid Support Forces militia . that make I think that we need to get upstream of such situation , to try to prevent they happen again . the UK use to be involve in defence engagement : we be deliver course such as manage defence in a wide security context at the Kofi Annan international peacekeeping training centre , teach thing like democratic oversight and democratic control of the armed force . will the Government look again at that training , and see whether we might deliver more such training for military officer and official in those develop country that be receptive to it ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his interesting and important question . the issue of conflict prevention be absolutely fundamental , not just for I as a Minister but for the Foreign Secretary and , indeed , the Prime Minister . we have be seek to ensure that the UK do all it can to exercise leadership in relation to what be often describe as fragile and conflict - affect state . that include state that be not yet in conflict but where there be the ingredient for conflict to increase . unfortunately , of course , the climate crisis be now often link to some of those conflict . we have make sure that there be a strong focus on economic development , for example . we have some good result a few week ago from the World Bank , which be focus on this in its International Development Association replenishment . I will ensure that the specific issue of defence training be raise with the Defence Secretary , and I will definitely be think about it myself . I welcome the statement and the leadership that the UK have show , particularly in the UN Security Council . when we look at Sudan , the complexity can make we feel as though we can not act , but it be really important that we do . have speak to NGOs on the ground , I know that they continue to push for access . as a number of hon . member have mention , the NGOs be particularly concerned about the UN ' s role in this and keen that we continue to push the UN . I welcome the continuation of access on the border in Chad , but can we ensure that the UK be push the UN on sustainable access on that border , and that it be not time - bind or unnecessarily condition ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise these really important issue . the UK Government have discuss these matter in detail with the UN , and I have myself do so with a number of its agency engage in the crisis . I know that they have be deeply concerned about the restriction on aid that we have see . some restriction be very clear , such as the closure of crossing , but there be also those that be de facto because of bureaucratic or administrative obstacle place in the way of those try simply to keep people alive through humanitarian aid . she talk about the crossing in Darfur . we have welcome news that it would be open for three more month , but ultimately it must be open permanently . this be an absolutely critical lifeline for million of people , and we will continue to advocate for that , as I be sure will the NGOs she mention . I pay tribute to their work , and it have be a pleasure to meet they and discuss these matter . I , too , welcome the Minister ' s statement on the dire situation in Sudan . as have be mention , Sudan have be describe as the " forget war " , which be incredible when we think that , accord to the United Nations , 14 million people have be displace and over half its population be on the verge of starvation . why do the Minister think it have take we so long to give this conflict due consideration ? I would like to push she on what negotiation we be have with our proxy nation that be play a role in this conflict , with some of which we have excellent relation . finally , what tangible action be we take to get aid into the country and to distribute it to those who most need it ? perhaps I can reassure the hon . member that this crisis have be an absolute priority for I . as I state before — I will not rehearse what I say previously — as soon as I come into my role , I be determined that I should be brief on this situation . I be determined to get as close to Sudan as I could , which I do when I go to South Sudan over the summer . I be really determined to make sure that the UK be exercise its leadership role . we have also be absolutely clear — I have say this in the House a number of time — that there be no reason for any country to be engage in Sudan unless it be provide humanitarian support . I have say that on the record a number of time , and we will continue to make that case . I welcome the Minister ' s statement on this harrowing humanitarian catastrophe . I especially welcome the fact that the UK be commit to give an additional £ 113 million in aid to the people in Sudan . I have two question . first , how realistic be it that this aid will actually get to the people still in Sudan ? secondly , give the large number of country host huge number of refugee , have they in any way indicate how long they be willing to continue host refugee ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for those important question . we be confident that the UK support be reach those in such desperate need . that be require creativity , diligence and repeat work from those on the ground , particularly to ensure that they be able to get aid to where it be need . there be often a complex process of negotiation , and that be in the context that there should be no impediment on aid , but we be determined that it will get to those who need it . my hon . friend talk about the response of neighbouring country to the large influx of refugee . the last conversation I have with one of those country be with some Ministers and representative from Chad . they be determined to fulfil their responsibility , and they be extremely concerned about their sudanese brother and sister , as they describe they to I , who have come over the border . however , that country be already under a huge amount of stress , so we pay tribute to it , but we need to see the international community step up . I thank the Minister very much for her positivity when she come to answer question in this Chamber ; we be all encourage by her true and honest enthusiasm , so I put my thank on the record . with an estimate 25 million people look for food and 14 million people displace , Sudan be fast become the crisis point of the world . although I be loath to suggest engagement in any theatre of war , my question to the Minister be this : can we do more ? can we do more to offer safe and secure camp for woman and child , with the chance of education and clean water ? can we do more to assist those who be seek to do well and to battle with tyranny ? if we can do more , my question be : will this enhancement start today ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his kind word . I know that he be engage significantly on these issue , and he have be at all the discussion of they in the House . I know that many of his constituent be concerned about this situation as well . it really be important that we see far great safety for those who have flee this conflict . the hon . member talk in particular about woman and girl . I mention before the extremely disturbing fact that , while of course woman and girl must be safe everywhere , we have , for example , have rape report in camp for internally displace people and at checkpoint . the fact that we have see this take place in those context be extremely disturbing . we be absolutely determined , as the UK Government , that we will be work with partner and the UN agency to ensure that we do all we can to provide such safety and security , which of course include the food security that he have also champion . I call another member of the Select Committee . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . this week the Select Committee hear compelling evidence , include about the important role of the sudanese diaspora , and not only in the UK but in other country . the Minister have rightly recognise the importance of listen to civil society organisation and work with they in Sudan . will she speak specifically about how the Department be engage with the sudanese diaspora here , and what practical step be be take to tackle the cost of remittance , give that many people be send money back to their love one ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this — of course , she have considerable expertise in this area . the role of the sudanese diaspora be incredibly important . I be sure that many of we will have have discussion with member of the diaspora in our constituency and hear their concern about the humanitarian situation , but also about what they be do to support friend , family and the wide community . I have certainly do that myself , and I know that Lord Collins be determined to ensure that we have a strong relationship with the sudanese diaspora . indeed , we should consolidate it for the future because we all want the same thing : peace , security and humanitarian support for people live in Sudan . I thank the Minister for her statement . this week the UN call the crisis in Sudan an " invisible crisis " , so it be really powerful that we have have so much agreement here today , which I hope will shed some light on the crisis . other have speak about the gender - base violence , which the UN have describe as an " epidemic " . I be pleased that the Minister be take the issue really seriously , and I know that this be more than just a job for she . however , Sudan be also a place where minority faith be persecute , so when we be think about distribute aid , will we take account of all human right as well as the need to save life ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for that important question ; he be of course right about the need to act against conflict - relate sexual violence , which many member have reference . on religious freedom in particular , which have previously be raise in the House , we remain concerned by the wide human right situation across Sudan since the 2021 military coup . we continue to promote freedom of religion or belief as a means of enhance tolerance and inclusion in Sudan , but we be not aware of any significant increase in the specific targeting of , or discrimination against , any religious minority because of their belief , include Christians , in the country since April 2023 . we will , however , keep this under review . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for her statement and for her leadership on the grow humanitarian crisis in Sudan . it all too often feel like a forget conflict , give the systemic human right abuse we have hear about . with that in mind , do she agree that Russia ' s veto of the joint UK - Sierra Leone UN Security Council resolution on protect civilian be indefensible and will only extend the human suffering in Sudan ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . that resolution be ask for what anyone can see be desperately need in Sudan : an end to impediment to aid ; above all , an end to the conflict ; and international action to support the people of Sudan . we be deeply disappointed and frustrate that Russia veto that resolution , but that will not dim our resolve to work with other partner on this issue . last but by no mean least , I call Steve Race . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I thank the Minister for come to the House to give this statement and for all the work the Government be do to support the sudanese people in the face of severe malnutrition and starvation . keep the Adre crossing open be extremely important . the sudanese armed force have commit to three month , but what diplomatic pressure be the Government bring to bear to ensure that that crossing remain open for long than three month ? the ability to bring in ready - to - use therapeutic food be so important , and there be global shortage in the production of rutf at the moment . ahead of the nutrition for growth summit next year , will the Government commit to invest in scale up production of RUTF ? my hon . friend raise an important point , and he be absolutely correct . the nutrition for growth conference be come up next year in Paris , and I be discuss that yesterday with some civil society expert . we must ensure that we be do all we can so that there be provision of those much need resource , especially for those already suffer from malnutrition . my hon . Friend also mention the additional challenge of those impediment to access to aid , which must be lift . I be pleased that the House be unite in its condemnation of those impediment , and I hope we can continue to work together on this appalling crisis . ROYAL ASSENT I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that the King have signify his Royal Assent to the follow Act : passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Act 2024 . Backbench Business Taiwan : International Status I beg to move , that this House , recall that United Nations Resolution 2758 of 25 October 1971 , which establish the People ' s Republic of China ( PRC ) as the only legitimate representative of China to the United Nations ( UN ) , do not mention Taiwan , note that UN Resolution 2758 do not address the political status of Taiwan or establish PRC sovereignty over Taiwan and be silent both on the status of Taiwan in the UN and on taiwanese participation in UN agency ; and call on the Government to clarify its position that UN Resolution 2758 do not establish the one China Principle as a matter of international law , to state clearly that nothing in law prevent the participation of Taiwan in international organisation and to condemn effort make by representative of the PRC to distort the meaning of UN Resolution 2758 in support of Beijing ' s one China Principle and the alteration of historic document by representative of the PRC , change the name of the country from Taiwan to Taiwan , province of China . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate . this be the first time I have stand in the Chamber to back the democratic right of the people of Taiwan , and I want to acknowledge those who have work on this issue over many year , in particular the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) and my former neighbouring MP Stewart McDonald . I also recognise the Minister ' s long - stand commitment to the human right of people in the region , and indeed your commitment , Madam Deputy Speaker . I welcome to Parliament the deputy representative , director and assistant director of the political division from the Taiwanese Representative Office . they be in the Gallery to observe this debate , which carry an important bearing on our strong and vibrant relationship with Taiwan . the detail in the motion may seem esoteric , but diplomatic technicality on an issue as fraught as the status of Taiwan could have far - reach consequence for the entire world , and we must have this debate now rather than later . I think back to the frenetic last - minute activity ahead of the full - scale invasion of Ukraine , with emergency flight full of anti - tank weapon , hastily draft sanction regime and fruitless shuttle diplomacy . Ukraine stand as a reminder that it be good to form policy on a crisis before the crisis emerge . incremental change to the status quo make by authoritarian regime be likely a prelude to more overt measure , and the good time to deter an aggressor be before their confidence grow . it be not possible to overstate the risk of a conflict over Taiwan . leave aside the humanitarian cost and geopolitical consequence of another democracy be attack by a large authoritarian neighbour , the economic pain would be feel in every household in this country . around 90 % of the world ' s large container ship pass through the Taiwan strait once a year . Taiwan produce two third of all semiconductor , and well over 90 % of all advanced microchip . it be estimate that a conflict would cost the global economy not less than $ 2 . 5 trillion , but that estimate be calculate by the Rhodium Group use only shipping datum . Bloomberg put the figure at a massive $ 10 trillion — about 10 % of global GDP — and it regard that to be a conservative estimate . the scale of the risk be why this debate be take place not only in this Chamber but in Parliaments around the world , and I put on record my thank to the Inter - Parliamentary Alliance on China for its assistance . through its work , Parliaments in Australia , the Netherlands and Canada and the European Parliament have all express their opposition to the distortion of UN resolution 2758 . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for secure this debate and for give way . the comparison point be important . the figure he have give for what would happen should Taiwan be blockade or even invade be worth relate back to the Ukraine effect from when Russia invade Ukraine . we have a hit of about $ 1 trillion to the global economy . the hon . Gentleman be talk about nine or 10 time that effect on the global economy — this be our neighbour , rather than a far and distant land . absolutely . although first and foremost in our mind should be the impact on people in Taiwan of any crisis , it would also be feel by our constituent in their cost of living and everything that happen in this country . it be right that this be a worldwide debate , give the military incursion into taiwanese territory , cyber - attack , disinformation , interference with shipping and aircraft — all the thing that make the headline — and I welcome the new Government ' s expression of concern about aggressive move in the strait . however , this need to be a global conversation , because the People ' s Republic of China be involve in an aggressive worldwide diplomatic strategy , especially across the global south . the strategy aim to secure international acceptance for its expansionist one China principle , which be to say that Taiwan be part of a single China and the PRC be the only legitimate Government of Taiwan , deny Taiwan ' s democracy any distinctive international status . of course , resolution 2758 do not mention Taiwan at all , and it do not address in any way the political status of Taiwan . it do not establish the PRC ' s sovereignty over Taiwan , and it be silent on the participation of Taiwan in the United Nations and its agency . importantly , it have no force of impact on we as sovereign nation and the relationship we choose to have with Taiwan . the current strategy by Beijing be a distortion of international law , but it be also at odd with the long - stand policy of the United Kingdom . it be essential that that be contest , and this debate offer the Minister and the new Government the opportunity to make it clear that the UK oppose that effort by the communist Government to rewrite history , or to unilaterally decide the future of Taiwan . debate about Taiwan be famously full of symbolism : which flag be fly , what nomenclature be use , and which seemingly synonymic word cause offence . it would be easy to write off discussion about the interpretation of resolution 2758 as yet another fine detail that distract from a big picture , but that would be a mistake . this be not pedantry from Beijing ; this be predation . Chairman Xi watch the near - unanimous diplomatic disapproval of Russia ' s war of aggression in Ukraine , and he be seek to reduce the chance of a similar chorus of condemnation towards any move against Taiwan . if the PRC ' s position that the UN resolution endorse its sovereignty over Taiwan be accept , it would later use that consensus to argue that any future coercion of Taiwan through arm or other mean — whether blockade or annexation — would be legal . similarly , any acceptance of Beijing ' s interpretation would be use to argue that move to prevent such coercion by Taiwan ' s democratic supporter be unlawful . this be not a technical issue but another source of increase risk for conflict across the Taiwan strait . will the Minister confirm today whether , as have be report , any assurance have be give to the PRC that the UK will not seek to counter internationally its effort on the one China principle , and whether promise have be make privately that we will not make the case with third - party nation for UK policy , namely our position that Taiwan ' s status be undetermined ? do she recognise that any UK Government acquiescence with the idea that the status of Taiwan be an internal matter for the PRC alone risk give legal cover to any future aggressive act ? do she recognise that distort resolution 2758 to pursue the exclusion from international organisation of Taiwan — a democratic , self - govern people — undermine the legitimacy of the international rule - base order , not least as it appear to be inconsistent with the treatment of other dispute territory ? will the UK advocate for meaningful taiwanese participation in all international organisation for which statehood be not a prerequisite ? past moment of crisis in the strait of Taiwan have flare up and subside — in particular in 1996 and 2000 after presidential election — but three thing that have change since then should make we more concerned . first , China be far more heavily armed . already possess of the large naval fleet in the world , Beijing have be add to it the equivalent of the entire Royal Navy every two year . it will soon have the large air force in the world . secondly , people on both side of the strait have grow apart . the Taiwanese now have more of a sense of their own identity , and their democracy be deeply embed , while China ' s populist nationalism have grow , and the PRC , which be hardly ever a free and open society , have move even far in an authoritarian direction , from Xinjiang to Tibet and Hong Kong . Chairman Xi previously propose to apply the " one country , two system " approach to Taiwan . however , the systematic removal of Hongkongers ' civil liberty mean that any promise from the mainland to maintain the freedom that Taiwan enjoy could not be trust . we know that Beijing do not keep its promise . thirdly , if we be honest , the west have be find want . we have be less than united and less than determined in our defence of democratic ally and democracy around the world . Xi have learn from Putin ' s year of slowly boil the frog , divide western opponent from each other , manipulate our population and operate in the grey zone where a gradual increase in aggressive act avoid a strong strategic response from the west . that mixture of chinese armament , grow nationalism , increase authoritarianism and western weakness be a potentially deadly combination . indeed , the military exercise and provocation around Taiwan be a recipe for unintentional disaster . last year , there be more than 1 , 700 occasion when PRC military aircraft deliberately enter the air defence identification zone of Taiwan . PRC jet turn away when they be just minute from Taipei . during exercise , we see taiwanese and PRC vessel in stand - off on the edge of Taiwan ' s nautical buffer zone . meanwhile , we do not have agree red line around Taiwan with other like - minded country , and worry ambiguity remain . for example , a maritime and air blockade be normally class as an act of war , but that be not clear in this case because of Taiwan ' s ambiguous state . will the Minister assure the House that the legal status of a blockade around Taiwan be be look at ? I worry that we could have a situation where government use that ambiguity as an excuse for inertia in the event of a crisis . will she take the opportunity to say that a maritime and air blockade around Taiwan would be a red line for the Government ? on so many occasion during the cold war , catastrophe be avoid due to essential de - escalation protocol that prevent the misinterpretation of either side ' s intention . I would be interested in the Minister ' s assessment of whether there be sufficient procedure of the kind between the military command of Taipei and Beijing , as in such a febrile and nationalistic atmosphere , a mistake could easily be misunderstood as deliberate escalation , and control of volatile public opinion could easily be lose . as be say early , let we not forget who pay the price for the collective failure of the international community to deter Putin ' s aggression . it be first and foremost the ukrainian people , but ordinary work people around the world also find themselves with unaffordable bill . if Bloomberg be correct , escalation across the strait would be , as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green say , five time bad than the economic contraction post Ukraine . we simply can not allow that to happen . when we discuss Taiwan , we talk a lot about protect the status quo , but we must recognise that the PRC be already actively work to change that status quo . Beijing have not pay any price for that . Xi ' s diplomatic offensive have not be meet with a commensurate effort from western democracy . as the PRC isolate Taiwan within international institution , we have not increase our engagement in response . above all , there have be no sanction for the constant military intimidation or grey zone attack . I recognise , of course , that careful diplomatic language be need on this issue , but we live in a world where free and open society be retreat in the face of authoritarian regime who no long recognise the old order or even international boundary , and who be seek to recreate the world in their image . I do not expect the Minister to depart from the delicate , long - establish language that have define the UK ' s position towards Taiwan since diplomatic relation be establish with the PRC , and the motion do not ask for such a departure . I ask the Minister to put on record the Government ' s concern about Beijing ' s distortion of the international law around Taiwan , and about the editing of historic UN document by chinese official . I hope that be see not as an outlandish or hawkish request , but merely as the least we can do when confront with such troubling behaviour . finally , put all diplomatic language aside , the debate be an opportunity to acknowledge the truth : Taiwan be not China in one important way that no amount of economic , military or diplomatic bullying by Beijing can obscure . it be this : the people of Taiwan be free and the people of China be not . now more than ever , we must stand with democracy and against dictatorship . we must stand up for freedom that we claim be universal , regardless of where people live in the world , and we should stand with the democracy of Taiwan . the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) mention sanction ; it give I huge pleasure to call my co - sanctionee , Sir Iain Duncan Smith . Madam Deputy Speaker , I will see what I can do to speak on your behalf — even though you have no opinion on this matter . absolutely not . we will see if we can ascertain one in pass . I congratulate the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) on secure the debate . that be not easy , as he know , and it be really good to see so many hon . member in attendance . as you point out , Madam Deputy Speaker , I be one of nine political sanctionee , and it be always worth remind ourselves that there be two other outside Parliament who be also sanction . they speak to I the other day and say , " we ' re often forget in this matter , but we can ' t do business . it ' s very difficult . " I wish to remember they , while we be at it ; they be unnecessarily sanction . everything that the hon . Gentleman say be absolutely correct . the problem be that we be deal with a power that be grow in potency and totalitarianism while it also grow in other way . let I add something on the size of the growth in its military capability . he mention China ' s naval capacity ; right now , China have 230 time the capacity for naval shipbuilding of the United States . any one shipyard in China outbuild the whole of the United States in naval shipbuilding . someone please tell I that that be for a peaceful purpose . I have no conception of why it would need that many naval ship if its purpose be peaceful . the answer be that it be not . this whole business of Taiwan have be obscure constantly by refusal from Administrations from both side of the House . I say to the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Hornsey and Friern Barnet ( Catherine West ) , who will respond to this debate , that I be not have a go at this government ; I have be have a go at every Government for a long time . it seem that whoever be elect , I be in opposition . she should not take personally the point I be about to make gently to she . politician be elect to take decision base on the principle that we govern by . our principle be simple : we believe in free speech , base freedom , the rule of law and human right . we may debate the element and range of that , but we believe in the fundamental right to decent treatment . I be sanction , along with you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and other , for raise the then undiscovered genocide that be go on in Xinjiang , which have now become public knowledge . this Parliament — member on both side — vote to agree that the genocide be take place , although the Government say that they could not vote to agree with that , or do anything about it , because that action would need to be take at the UN , through the International Court of Justice . that be never go to happen , because it get veto , straight off . the Labour party , in opposition , agree that genocide be take place , and agree on many occasion with those of we who have real problem with China ' s treatment of people and of human right ; the Labour party be constantly in support of our position . I simply say that as a base reminder , because this be really about what we believe . from one government to the next , we have genuinely , deliberately obscure the question of Taiwan ' s status . People have argue with I that the question be settle by resolution 2758 , which be often misquote . they say that it somehow settle the status of Taiwan . they have argue that it be clear from that resolution , now that the PRC be responsible for China at the UN , that Taiwan be a part of China . it say no such thing , as the hon . member for East Renfrewshire say . in fact , it be deliberately obscure about that idea ; it be not settle . under the whole reign of the Communist party in China , Taiwan have never be a part of a Chinese Administration or a chinese Government . Taiwan right now be a democracy and an upholder of human right . it have an agreement , as we do , that the freedom of individual to speak out without let or hindrance , and without fear of arrest — we see such arrest in Hong Kong — remain important . the Government should speak out in Taiwan ' s defence and argue that China have no right to extinguish that , unless there be a deliberate indication that Taiwan wish to be part of China . Taiwan have never wish that , and the last election demonstrate that be still not the case . Taiwan do not wish to join China , as it have never be part of China . this military build - up be not for a general purpose . it be ultimately to try to displace the US ' s position in the Pacific , so that it will be unable to act , should China decide at some point to blockade or invade . the incursion that be take place would not be tolerate anywhere else in the world . there be huge number of plane overfly Taiwan . ship be threaten it by come right up close , past the border of Taiwan . they be deliberately provoke , in the hope that action will take place that allow the Chinese to take action themselves . if we move our gaze slightly far south , we come to the South China sea . China have occupy it and declare it to be a historical part of China . the UN have say that that be not the case , and have tell China categorically that it have no right to occupy or build military fortification in the South China sea . what have China ' s reaction be to that ? nothing . it say that the UN have no right to interfere , and now it be try to blockade . in fact , US navy ship still sail through there , but every other ship , include recently the Philippines coastguard , have be hound out of the area . ship have be ram and threaten , and military naval vessel from China now occupy that space . we know what China think of these thing . we know what it plan to do , because it have already do it . we wonder : if we do not say very much , will that obscurity allow China to back away ? the Chinese have no intention whatsoever of back off . that be part of their absolute creed now . in fact , it be clear even from China ' s constitution that it see Taiwan as part of China . I do not know how many more indication the Foreign Office need of China ' s direction of travel . what do the Government plan to do about this ? to what degree will the Government challenge the misinterpretation of resolution 2758 publicly , and recognise that Taiwan have a right to self - determination , as we and all other democratic nation do ? will the Minister take the opportunity to state Government policy clearly from the Dispatch Box ? will she agree to make a public statement to the House about what be go on in Taiwan ? the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ask for that , and I back he up . we would love clarity from the Government on the fact that what be take place in and around Taiwan be utterly unacceptable ; we should even think about move to a sanction at the Security Council . China will veto that , we know , but it be important for the world to understand China ' s position . to return to covid , we remember when all that happen as a result of a failure in China , but we be unable to get any figure about what Taiwan be do — and that be rather important , because it have advanced method of deal with covid that we could have learn a lot from . we be not allow to get those figure ; they all have to come through China . China refuse to let we know what be go on as it embarrass China , because it have take very little action early on , and the result be million die around the world . my point be that when we acquiesce and give way , as we do at the World Health Organisation , where we no long insist on these thing , that weakness be see as a success for China . the Chinese take that and move on . how do we know that ? because back in the 1930 , every time we acquiesce to a new demand by Hitler ' s Germany , it take that and move on . we do not appease communist or fascist dictator by say , " well , if we be reasonable , in due course they will be reasonable . " by definition , a dictatorship be not reasonable . Fascist Germany tell we what it be go to do , and China tell we categorically all the time what it will do . we in the west do not want to believe that . we think that if we be reasonable , the Chinese will be reasonable . they be not reasonable . they intend to take Taiwan back one way or the other . today and go forward , the question for we and for the Foreign Office , the unelected body that sit across the road , be : why do not we get serious about this , understand it , and say all this ? if we do not tell the Chinese that there be limit , they assume that we do not believe that there be any , and they go ahead . the financial chaos that would ensue from merely a blockade — not even an invasion of Taiwan — would be devastating to our economy . I have an argument the other day with one of my colleague , who shall remain nameless — [ interruption . ] there we go ; he be not in the Chamber . that individual say to I that Taiwan have nothing to do with we ; it be a long way from we , and we have no arrangement with it . when I make the point to he that the whack to our economy would be enormous , I add one other figure , which be that 72 % of everything make in the world be make in the area around the South China sea , include China . I say to my colleague that it be not far away ; it be our neighbour . without Taiwan — if anything happen to Taiwan — we go down , too . the real point of this important debate be to try to persuade the Government to be much bold about this matter and to recognise the threat , to recognise the need for a british Government to say enough be enough , and to recognise that what happen to Taiwan be not just a matter of interest to we , but a matter of vital importance . many member be at the conference in Taipei recently , where we hear about all the terrible problem that Taiwan now face as a result of China ' s action . one only have to be there to realise just how devastating this situation be to many taiwanese people , whose life be genuinely threaten by it . with this huge build - up , the clear threat that China pose , the brutality it have already demonstrate in the South China sea and the illegality of its action , and its complete failure to take any action other than those it wish to take , it be important for we to demonstrate stage by stage , at every moment and at every opportunity , that we regard China ' s behaviour as unacceptable and that we will oppose it . one way this Government could start do that would be to go back and look again at the risk register that we start under the previous Government . we should now move China on to the high tier of that risk register . that would send a very strong signal to the Chinese Government that we be serious about our behaviour . I will end simply by say the following to the Minister . I know the Government want to increase and improve trade with China , and I understand why they want to do that . my concern , at the end of it all , be that we can not detach our desire for commercial engagement from the real engagement , which be about the way a state treat the people who live there and the way it behave to its neighbour . we do so in the past , and look what happen : 60 million people die because we ignore what be go to happen . they tell we what be go to happen , but we want to do business with they . this time we have to learn that appeasement do not work . there be no chance it will work this time . we need to be clear to China , as America be and as other be , and say that this shall not stand , that we in the UK will stand for the freedom of those people whose self - determination be always a matter of high concern to we , and that we will defend it at whatever cost . I call the Select Committee Chair . I thank the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for his contribution ; it be always a pleasure to follow in his wake . the work you have do to make this House aware of the very real threat that China pose to we be astounding — you have be very dogged in make that happen , and I be grateful for that . I also thank my new hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) for his contribution . in your short time in Parliament , the work you have do to show how China be exploit the most vulnerable and commit egregious human right violation have be deeply appreciated . I turn to you , Madam Deputy Speaker — now I can actually use " you " appropriately , for once . what you have do in your time as a parliamentarian to campaign for and champion the right of the Uyghur people , who be be so egregiously exploit in the Xinjiang autonomous region by China , be admirable . we regard the sanction China have put on you , Madam Deputy Speaker , as a badge of honour for defend human right , and we be very proud of what you have do . can I say , quite simply , that I love Taiwan ? I love the people , I love the food , I love the culture . Most of all , I love its vibrant democracy , which be one of the strong in the world . in this speech , I will share how its democracy actively try to help other around the world , and how it be something we all need to stand with . it will therefore come as no surprise that I must draw member ' attention to the fact that I co - chair the British - Taiwanese all - party parliamentary group and to my financial declaration in relation to that . over the year , I have witness at first hand how Taiwan actively contribute its expertise to support global partner , which we should celebrate . Taiwan be a leader in the field of public health , technology , clean energy , net zero and so much more . however , despite all that Taiwan have to offer , it find itself bar from international organisation . since 1971 , China have repeatedly use UN General Assembly resolution 2758 to justify its effort to exclude Taiwan from the UN system , which it have do hugely effectively . with a population of 23 . 5 million , Taiwan be the most populous self - govern state not represent at the UN . its exclusion undermine critical global co - operation effort , in particular around public health , climate change and the realisation of the sustainable development goal . take sdg 3 , on promote good health and wellbeing . Taiwan maintain some of the low case rate in the world throughout the covid - 19 pandemic . however , while it have notable success in suppress the spread of the virus , its exclusion from the World Health Organisation mean that it be unable to share this expertise with the world . the official record show that when the resolution be pass 53 year ago , its intent be merely to make a judgment on who should take up China ' s seat at the UN — that be it . the resolution bear no mention at all of Taiwan ; it do not state that Taiwan be part of the PRC , nor ascribe any right for China to represent Taiwan in the UN system . most importantly , there be no evidence that the resolution establish , as a matter of international law , the one China principle . for all those reason , the resolution can not be use as a reasonable justification to preclude Taiwan from participate in international organisation . as parliamentarian , we must do all we can to contest the narrative that China ' s territorial claim over Taiwan be a settled issue . it be not . it be not an issue at all . China have no sovereign right over Taiwan . resolution 2758 be one of the many grey zone use by China to encroach on Taiwan ' s sovereignty , and we must not collude with it in that . we have recently see increase incursion into Taiwan ' s airspace , as well as large - scale military drill and advance close to Taiwan ' s contingency zone . operation by the chinese coastguard have challenge Taiwan ' s right to control the water around its own territory . as China continue to challenge the boundary and disrupt the rule - base international order , I be deeply concerned by the silence of the international community , and that that silence will be interpret by China as tacit consent . we must call out any attempt by China to establish a legal basis for a future armed invasion of Taiwan . we all hold a share interest in the freedom of navigation through the Taiwan strait and the South China sea , which be one of the world ' s most important trade route . as other have say , Bloomberg economist have estimate that a potential invasion of Taiwan would cost the global economy around $ 10 trillion — that would come out of our pocket . that be equal to around 10 % of global GDP , which would dwarf the cost of the war in Ukraine . safeguard the Taiwan strait and protect the rule - base order be in both our national and our international interest . I understand but do not appreciate diplomat and UK civil servant dance on the linguistic head of a pin on this topic , and I therefore urge the Minister and the House to solemnly refute China ' s argument on UN resolution 2758 , and to curb the PRC ' s ambition to unilaterally change the status quo across the Taiwan strait and across Taiwan itself . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate . I thank all member who have speak . their contribution be always exceptional and I be very pleased to hear they . I commend the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) for secure the debate . he also secure a debate in Westminster Hall on the Uyghurs , so I thank he for give we an opportunity to participate . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) always bring his personal touch to these issue . he have a deep passion for this subject matter and I thank he for that . in speak about the future of global democracy and the protection of human right , the situation of Taiwan , the action of the Chinese Communist party and the increasingly concern violation of religious freedom and human right in China , let I begin by express my firm support for the sovereign status of Taiwan , a beacon of democracy in a region where its survival be threaten by the grow authoritarianism of China . Taiwan stand as a stalwart defender of liberty , democracy and human right — value that we in this House hold dear . we all say that and when we say it , other will follow . it be essential that we as a nation stand with Taiwan as it face increase aggression from the Chinese Government . the relationship between Taiwan and the United Kingdom have always be one of mutual respect and share value . it be vital that we strengthen those tie in the face of grow threat from Beijing . Taiwan be not just an ally in the fight for democracy ; it be a live testament to the success of democratic governance in the face of adversity . since the 1980 , Taiwan have undergo significant political and social reform , transform from a one - party state under martial law to a flourish democracy with free and fair election . in fact , Taiwan rise 20 place in the Economist Democracy Index , rank as Asia ' s no . 1 democracy and 11th globally , mark its commitment to the principle of liberty , freedom and human right . in contrast , just across the Taiwan strait , the chinese Communist party seek to erode the very foundation of liberty . China ' s increase aggression towards Taiwan through military provocation , cyber - attack and political pressure must be meet with a strong response . the United Kingdom , along with other liberal democracy , have a responsibility to defend Taiwan ' s sovereignty and to advocate for its rightful place in the international community . that be why today ' s debate in this House be so important . it be so important that member from all party , on all side of the Chamber , put that on the record . in 2021 alone , we see a staggering 950 intrusion by chinese military aircraft into Taiwan ' s airspace — a sharp increase of 150 % on the previous year . it be very clear what China be do . as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green say , why be China build all these ship ? there have to be a purpose . where be it go ? it show the increase military threat pose by China , and we must not ignore these act of intimidation . on the chinese Communist party ' s gross violation of human right within its own border , the chinese Government have be responsible for some of the most horrendous human right abuse in recent memory , particularly against religious minority . religious freedom be a fundamental human right . you and I know that , Madam Deputy Speaker . we all know that in this House and we all know how important it be to say it . China continue to systematically violate this right , both within its own border and beyond . one of the most concern example of those abuse be the ongoing persecution of Uyghur Muslims in Xinjiang . report from credible international organisation indicate that over 1 million Uyghurs and other muslim minority be detain in so - call re - education camp . they be torture camp . they be intimidation camp . they take away liberty and freedom , and subject family to force labour , torture and indoctrination . the camp be part of China ' s broad campaign to erase uyghur culture , religion and identity . this brutal repression be compound by horrendous report of force sterilisation , sexual violence and organ harvesting . China ' s treatment of tibetan Buddhists , Falun Gong practitioner and Christians be equally alarming . tibetan Buddhists continue to face severe restriction on their religious practice , with report of monk and nun be detain , torture and even kill for peacefully protest or for their religious belief . the ongoing effort to erode tibetan culture and religion include the imposition of chinese Communist party - approve religious leader . my goodness ! just pluck that man out there and he can be a religious leader . he doesn ' t know anything about the religion , but he ' ll do it ! that be the China that we speak out against today . it be a direct assault on the freedom of conscience . for Falun Gong practitioner , the situation be equally dire . thousand have be detain and subject to force labour , torture and execution for their belief . the crackdown on Christians in China be every bit as severe . church closure , the destruction of crosse and the imprisonment of pastor have become all too common . religious worship , whether in a mosque , temple , church or private home , be increasingly subject to government interference and repression . China ' s effort to silence opposition extend far beyond its border . we be look at Taiwan today , but there be other part of the world where the focus be equally clear . through its belt and road initiative , China have seek to extend its economic and political influence across the globe , often use debt - trap diplomacy to entangle country in its sphere of influence . that have include pressure country to withdraw their diplomatic recognition of Taiwan and to instead align themselves with Beijing because , " you owe we so much money and this be part of the deal . " it be a gross violation of the principle of sovereignty and self - determination , and it be essential that we , as a nation , continue to support Taiwan in the face of those pressure . moreover , as other have say , China ' s technological influence be a grow concern . the CCP have make significant investment in surveillance technology , which it use both domestically to monitor and control its population , and abroad to further its strategic objective . as a lead global power , the United Kingdom have a unique responsibility to defend the principle of democracy , human right , and the rule of law . it be essential that we not only stand with Taiwan , but take concrete step to ensure its security and sovereignty . the UK must work closely with ally , particularly the United States , Japan , Australia and New Zealand , to build a co - ordinate response to China ' s grow aggression and evil attitude to everyone in the Indo - Pacific region . in addition to our military and diplomatic support for Taiwan , the Government must also continue to raise the issue of China ' s human right abuse at every available forum . the UK must lead the charge in hold China accountable for its action and ensure that the international community do not turn a blind eye to the suffering of million of people under the CCP ' s control . we must also ensure that our economic relation with China do not come at the expense of human right . it be unacceptable that economic interest should override our moral obligation to stand up for the oppressed . in conclusion , Taiwan be a shine example of the power of democracy and freedom in the face of authoritarianism . we must stand by Taiwan , not just because it be in our national interest , but because it be the right thing to do . we must also continue to speak out against the CCP ' s brutality and human right abuse , and work tirelessly to hold China accountable for its action . the United Kingdom must remain a champion of freedom , democracy and human right , and we must be so in the firm belief that these value will ultimately triumph over the force of oppression . I believe they will . I believe we will do the right thing . we have a maiden speech . I call Alison Taylor . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden speech during this important debate . I only hope that I can acquit myself as well as the hon . member who have precede I . it be an honour , as the new MP for Paisley and Renfrewshire North , to deliver my maiden speech during the debate on the international status of Taiwan . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) on bring this debate to the House . I represent a seat that take in part of the former mill town of Paisley and part of the economic powerhouse of Glasgow , with the welcome recent addition of the community of Hillington , Cardonald and Penilee . in my constituency , the town and village be bring together by the River Clyde and its tributary . the Clyde , which stretch 170 km in length , be well know for its shipbuilding and engineering heritage . it have for century be an inspiration for lyricist , music and art . during this decade , a new innovation zone have be develop around Glasgow airport , stretch out across the flatland of the river basin and take in the town of Paisley , the former burgh of Renfrew and the village of Inchinnan . a new high - tech district , the silicon valley of Glasgow , link academia , research and industry . this project showcase the power of Government intervention and central funding . with strategic asset such as a tidal river , an international airport , the Erskine bridge , Braehead retail park and the m8 motorway , my constituency offer so much to allow business to thrive . however , our connectivity , while good , require improvement . it need a well bus network and a long - overdue rail link to the international airport . with the scottish constitutional question have be determine in 2014 , there be now a real opportunity to foster political stability , create economic growth and reset international trading relation . my constituent badly need the economic growth that this Government have make their priority . already in my surgery I have speak to many people who be live in unsuitable housing or temporary accommodation or , bad , be homeless . as Nye Bevan say , " a house , a modern house , be a most complex economic production . every single industry be a contributor . " what well way be there of stimulate the economy , across many sector , than to build modern home ? my connection with this seat go back to the aftermath of world war two , when my family first settle in Bishopton . my Uncle Jack be a security guard at the munition factory , now the site of Dargavel Village . in the neighbouring village of Langbank , my husband be raise on Middlepenny Road , and his mother be the local playgroup leader . study at what be now the University of the West of Scotland in Paisley , I graduate in land economic , and then , follow in my father ' s footstep , become a chartered surveyor . my mother stay at home to look after her three daughter , while my father grow his business in Glasgow . I myself be proud to be the mother of two daughter ; the young be bear in 2017 in the Royal Alexandra hospital in Paisley , where we both receive excellent care . represent a constituency so integral to my family ' s history be a privilege that I hold dear . the seat be home to the former Member of Parliament for Monklands East , Helen Liddell , who now sit in the other place alongside my friend Baroness Ramsay of Cartvale , who have play such a vital role in our country ' s security . as a chartered surveyor , I have be fortunate to work with inspirational client and colleague who be both innovator and entrepreneur , and who teach I the long - term value of positivity , collaboration and strategic thinking . it be that sense of opportunity that I want to bring to the House . I will work diligently to bring my entire life experience to bear on the very real need of my constituency . I have establish my constituency office in Inchinnan , in the former India Tyres factory — a stunning art deco building which would have be there when my root in the area be forge . I would like to say a few word about my predecessor Gavin Newlands , who be a Member of Parliament for nine year . in spite of my contest the seat three time , Gavin be always courteous and polite to I . he rail against exploitative working practice , he promote the importance of the airport to this constituency , and he speak up for vulnerable woman who have no voice . I be sure that the whole House will want to join I in wish he the very good for the future . my constituency be a fine mix of history and modernity . like I , it have pride in its past and optimism about its future . I be elect to deliver on the change that my constituent and my country need , and it be an honour to do just that . I thank my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) for initiate this important and timely debate . I particularly welcome his comment about the long - stand work of other member in support of Taiwan , and his remark about this be a global conversation . I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Alison Taylor ) on her maiden speech and her focus on drive economic growth across her constituency . China ' s increasingly aggressive behaviour towards Taiwan be yet another alarming example of its consistent and blatant disregard for the international rule - base order . as one who be proud to represent a significant Hong Kong community in Bolton West , I have hear at first hand about the devastating effect of Beijing ' s authoritarian rule . indeed , many of my constituent be effectively force from their old home in Hong Kong by the destruction of its democratic freedom . let we be clear : Beijing ' s action towards Taiwan do not exist in isolation . they be part of a broad pattern of behaviour , as I have describe . we need only look at Tibet , where Beijing have systematically suppress cultural and religious freedom ; at Xinjiang , where atrocity have be commit repeatedly against the Uyghurs ; at Hong Kong , where the sino - british joint declaration have be tear asunder ; and , now , at Taiwan . Beijing have escalate its military posturing , impose economic coercion and engage in cyber warfare , all aim at undermine Taiwan ' s vibrant democracy and intimidate its people . China ' s deliberate distortion of United Nations resolution 2758 be a prime example of the way in which Beijing disregard the international rule - base system to push its own narrative . let I emphasise that , crucially , the resolution do not address the sovereignty of the island of Taiwan , or preclude it from have representation at the United Nations or other international organisation . yet Beijing have seek to change historic document and record , include at the UN , to allege that the resolution claim that Taiwan be an inalienable part of China ' s territory . the blatant misrepresentation of resolution 2758 be not just an attack on Taiwan , but an assault on the integrity of the international system that we champion . this behaviour also stand in direct opposition to the UK ' s long - stand position on Taiwan . for decade , the UK have maintain a policy that not only be in favour of Taiwan ' s participation in international organisation , but reiterate our clear interest in peace and stability in the Taiwan strait , consider the Taiwan issue one to be settle through constructive dialogue , not force or coercion . however , China ' s action continue flagrantly to contradict that principle and threaten the stability of the wide Indo - Pacific region . tension be increase , with recent estimate suggest that there have be a 300 % increase in grey zone activity across the Taiwan strait , as well as incursion into Taiwan ' s air defence identification zone . Beijing ' s grey zone activity in the strait be make it very difficult to establish red line around its behaviour . normally , a maritime and air blockade would be consider an act of war in international law . can the Minister confirm that a maritime and air blockade by Beijing around Taiwan would be a red line for the UK Government ? I want to underline the clear public interest in de - escalation in the Taiwan strait . we depend on Taiwan for microchip , especially for the advanced semiconductor on which we all depend for our critical infrastructure . two third of chip , and almost all advanced chip , be currently produce in Taiwan . as my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire outline , Bloomberg have estimate that the conflict would cost the global economy $ 10 trillion — more than five time more than the Ukraine crisis . as we learn from Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine , the failure to deter a conflict in the South China sea will have a high cost for all of we in this place and for our constituent . in 2023 , the then Defence Minister Baroness Goldie confirm that the UK Government be analyse the prospective economic impact on the UK of escalation in the Taiwan strait . will the Government publish that assessment , give the clear public interest ? Beijing ' s pattern of behaviour be clear . each time we fail to respond decisively to China ' s disregard for democracy and the international rule - base order , it embolden Beijing to continue to act with impunity . Taiwan be now at the frontline . we must stand with Taiwan — not only to protect its people and democracy , but to send a clear message to Beijing that the systematic erosion of freedom and violation of international law that have take place in Tibet , Xinjiang , Hong Kong and now Taiwan will not go unchecked . by push back , the UK will defend our share value , strengthen our global alliance and uphold the international law that ensure peace and stability across the world . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) on secure the debate , and my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Alison Taylor ) on make her maiden speech . it be wonderful to have two mp from Scotland bring so much knowledge and understanding of international issue to the House . it really be enrich , and I have be in this place for 10 year . all the contribution today have be full of different aspect — economic , public health , dictatorship , the Communist party and filthy politic — but I will stick to some basic . I have be to Taiwan a number of time , and I think I be still get over my last trip , which be to the conference that have be mention . I do not know how many hour of travel we do , but it really knock I out for six and we do not have many hour between the business over there . if anyone think that member go on trip to Taiwan be on holiday , they be wrong . Taiwan be a wonderful place . I will not go on too much about it , but it must be way up there in the ranking for demonstrate actual democracy . believe I , this Parliament have much to learn from Taiwan about how to conduct its business . on my first visit to Taiwan , I think I be go to the third world , but I come back to somewhere that resemble the third world by comparison with Taiwan . only last month , the People ' s Republic of China conduct one of its large ever military drill off the coast of Taiwan , in an attempt to intimidate it . the drill involve 34 naval vessel and at least 125 aircraft . the tactic of intimidation be part of today ' s debate , and it show what China be about . China be attempt to intimidate Taiwan and isolate it by insist that the one China principle mean that Taiwan can play no role in international body . nothing in UN resolution 2758 state that Taiwan can not be part of international organisation , and the exclusion of Taiwan come with dangerous consequence for the world . a number of member have explicitly state that today , so I do not need to repeat what they have say . the opening speech of my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) be magnificent ; he cover every aspect of this matter , and I congratulate he on do so . during the covid - 19 pandemic , Taiwan deploy one of the world ' s most effective strategy against the disease , despite its close proximity to China . however , Taiwan be exclude from the World Health Organisation , and it remain exclude today . it be worth mention the force organ harvesting system . who determine that China have an ethical organ transplant system ? China itself do , yet the who still admit it . accord to the WHO , China operate an ethical organ harvesting system . the hon . Lady raise a really important point . practitioner of Falun Gong talk about arrest , incarceration and illegal organ harvesting from people who be still alive , and about the high level of state - base attack and murder . it be quite staggering that China export more organ than any other country in the world , and I wonder where it get they from . I do not want to go on too much about organ harvesting , because it give I sleepless night . China take organ from 28 - year - old because it get more for they , as there be well chance of succeed if the organ be take fresh from people who be still alive . People can order a kidney and so on , because there be a database of the people go to " re - education school " . China say to the world , " Don ' t worry ; we can get what you need . you can have it in day . " how many people have be prosecute ? we know there have be one prosecution in the UK , but how many people have come back from China have receive an organ ? be the law be enforce ? the exclusion of Taiwan from international body mean that it could not share with the world its successful method of deal with covid when we need they the most . the World Health Organisation be only one example of an international body from which Taiwan have be exclude . China have consistently block attempt by Taiwan to join the UN , include in 2009 , which mean that over 23 million people in one of the fine democracy in the world have be block from be hear at the United Nations . in the event of a conflict break out across the Taiwan strait , only one side would be able to put forward their case at the United Nations . that be not how the United Nations be intend to operate . why be it like that ? I shiver when Putin ' s Russia be allow to use its veto at the United Nations . People think I be mad , but we be see the consequence now . there be troubling report that former taiwanese President Tsai be block from visit this place to address mp and peer last month . President Tsai have have successful visit to Canada , Brussels and Czechia , yet apparently she be not allow here . that be despite Taiwan be an important strategic partner for the United Kingdom in the Indo - Pacific . sadly , it seem as though China ' s intimidation campaign continue to work . one of the good way to push back against the People ' s Republic of China ' s intimidation campaign be to elevate the status of the Taiwanese Representative Office here in London , in a similar way to the action take in the United States and Lithuania . right now , the Taiwanese Representative Office be not afford the protection it clearly need . it can not even get a bank account . elevate Taiwan ' s diplomatic status would send a clear message that the british Government do not accept an enforce one China principle , and instead consider both Taiwan and China to be individual partner . the People ' s Republic of China be found 75 year ago , and Taiwan have never be part of it . Taiwan be a thriving and successful democracy that share our value . as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) say , what be happen in Taiwan be just part of China ' s plan . look at what be happen in Hong Kong . instead of wait 50 year to review everything , China smash it and move on to the next one : Taiwan . the right hon . Gentleman be right to raise that point today . it be time to show our strength by throw off the shackle of intimidation and give Taiwan diplomatic status . if the british Government lead with our ally , other nation will follow suit . Taiwan be a self - govern democracy that have succeed despite not be allow into the UN and other international organisation . it be a shine light of democracy in an uncertain region , and this world be desperately short of such shine light of true democracy in operation . the world be in desperate need . I urge member to vote for the motion today , to send a clear message that this House believe Taiwan have every right to be part of international organisation in its own right . that be what resolution 2758 be about . some people would have I be ashamed of my religion , but I be not . I be a roman Catholic , but not holy than thou . a shudder go through I when , last year or the year before — time seem to go very quickly now — Roman Catholics in China be require to register as Roman Catholics , and our Pope accept it . what do Hitler do ? this be how he start . I think , " dear Lord , this sleep tiger have not half wake up , and it be go to cause harm . " it be about time that other nation , not just our , get their act together . it be about time that so - call democratic country sort this out . China be to be fear more than Russia . it be part of the evil axis that would take over this world if we do not all stand up for democracy and for people . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be always a pleasure to speak under your chairmanship , Madam Deputy Speaker , particularly give your considerable contribution on this issue throughout your parliamentary career , as other member have say . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Alison Taylor ) , whose passionate love for her community and her family reflect well on she and give her constituent faith that she will act on their good behalf in this House . I also pay tribute to the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , whose contribution to this debate have already be warmly note . expert often talk about the pressure point of geopolitic , the place where the strategic aim of different country coincide , clash and create tension . what be far too often leave out of these conversation be the reality for the million of people who live in those pressure point . the taiwanese people be live in real fear at one of these pressure point . it should be tell for all of we that , despite be an advanced economy and a thriving democracy with high living standard and strong manufacturing , and with cultural link to the rest of the world , Taiwan feel increasingly isolated and vulnerable in the face of the chinese Government . that be testament to the fact that , no matter how hard people have work to build a robust democracy on that island , that do not , in and of itself , protect the liberty and security that we all deserve . Taiwan deserve our support as we enter the second half of this decade , and this motion can help we to continue do that . the Liberal Democrats stand with the people of Taiwan . any chinese aggression or threat to their free speech and human right be unacceptable . the Liberal Democrats will continue to support our friend in the Democratic Progressive party , which be the govern party of Taiwan , a long - stand member of Liberal International , and a found member of the Council of Asian Liberals and Democrats . in our manifesto , the Liberal Democrats call for the building of new diplomatic , economic and security partnership with democracy threaten by China , include Taiwan , and it be something that we will gladly work with the Government to deliver because an issue of this importance should transcend party politic . I be reassure by the voice and the statement we have hear from member on both side of the House in this debate . fundamentally , what be at stake in Taiwan be a question of moral obligation , one that we have always have to confront and that liberal have always be clear in answering : can we stand up for people live outside recognise sovereign state , who cherish the same freedom we do and have the same inviolable right to self - determination that we do , against neighbour with increasingly imperial objective ? or be we force to live in a world where , as be say in antiquity , the strong do what they can and the weak suffer what they must ? put simply , do might make right ? the people of Taiwan deserve we to answer that question with our clear and resounding support as they go about try to integrate into the system of international governance . the Government should therefore listen to the story be tell in this House today and make it clear that , in their dealing with the Chinese Government , they will establish clear red line that call out violation of Taiwan ' s territory at land and sea as unacceptable . the Government should work with their international partner to remove the obstacle to Taiwan join various international body . as other member have say , Taiwan ' s exclusion from the World Health Organisation serve to prove this point . despite a successful approach to the covid - 19 pandemic , Taiwan be again rebuff in its attempt to join the WHO , with China veto its accession until such time as Taiwan give in to China ' s territorial claim on the island . this compromise our ability , and the ability of country around the world , to learn from the lesson of Taiwan ' s successful response to covid - 19 , and it will have cost many , many life . Taiwan find itself unable to properly access and work alongside interpol , leave it exclude from the international crime - fight network that it need , not least because international criminal be know to operate in the South China sea . this should concern all of we . Taiwan ' s exclusion from these body make international co - operation hard . it weaken a strategic ally in the region , and it embolden state such as China and Russia to feel that their attempt to undermine the liberal world order will succeed . indeed , how can we justify the liberal and democratic world order without ensure that it offer protection to those who subscribe to it and who wish to join and collaborate with the institution that be so key to maintain that very world order ? we have already leave so many country around the world vulnerable to the influence of state such as China . the last Government make short - sighted and naive decision to continually cut the UK ' s foreign aid budget , to slash our international development credential , to shrink our world - renowne diplomatic service , to force cut to our BBC World Service output and to undermine our standing as a major power on the world stage . those step have leave a vacuum in Africa , in Asia , and in part of Europe , too . we should not be remotely surprised that China have increasingly seek to fill that gap with debt trap and political influence through its belt and road initiative . it be up to this Government to do something about it , to show that the one China policy be not the policy of this Government and that Taiwan will be support in accede to various international body . that would be a key step in the right direction . they must be willing to discuss Taiwan with the chinese Government as they embark on a new era of bilateralism with President Xi . I note that in its manifesto early this year , the Labour party commit to a new approach to China , as part of a wide audit of its China strategy . the manifesto say : " we will co - operate where we can , compete where we need to , and challenge where we must . " those be welcome word , so it be disappointing to read coverage this week of the leak news that the Foreign Office intervene to cancel a visit last month that Taiwan ' s former President Tsai Ing - wen have be due to make to the UK , when he would have speak to mps . will the Government respond to that claim and explain to the House exactly why former President Tsai , as it seem , be deny a visit ? we all recognise that diplomacy be difficult , and I sincerely hope the Government will put my mind and those of other hon . member at rest by confirm that this be an oversight . however , if it be not an oversight and that decision be take out of deference to the chinese Government ahead of the Prime Minister ' s recent meeting with President Xi , the Government will not be surprised to hear I say that that be unacceptable . the Government ' s new approach to China should be characterise by a defence of our value and the robust support of Taiwan . that be why the Liberal Democrats have call for the Government to issue a comprehensive China strategy that place human right , effective rule - base multilateralism and work with our european partner centre stage . without that , we risk far backslide into a world where China feel able to act with impunity and Taiwan will continue to suffer . will the Minister provide an update on when the Government will provide the House with an update on its China strategy audit , so that we can scrutinise it and ensure it live up to those value ? just last month , China simulate a full - scale invasion of the island through war game in the South China sea . as the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) say , in late 2021 and early 2022 , we watch russian force mass on the ukrainian border and attempt to convince ourselves that the inevitable be not about to occur . I will quote a great man , who hang heavy over many of we in this place : " those that fail to learn from history be doom to repeat it . " imagine live with the threat of such a war on the doorstep . we have all be pay close attention to the terrible scene unfold in Ukraine and the middle east in recent year . we all know that the horror of war have not be ease , but rather compound by modern technology . imagine people witness those scene on their tv screen , while know the very same could happen to their home and family in the very near future . the journey to recognition and accession to international body for Taiwan be long and will not be solve overnight , but the Government can play a key role in make the journey easy by show its support for Taiwan as clearly as they can . they can do the right thing on human right in China more widely too . they can choose to recognise the genocide happen to the Uyghurs in Xinjiang autonomous region . they can stand with Hongkongers who be already live with the experience of creep authoritarianism from Beijing . and the Government can champion the cause of international law and norm , in the face of grow disorder and violence around the world . I invite they to do so and to regularly report back to the House on how such a China strategy be develop , because Britain be at its good when it stand with those face oppression and say clearly , with one voice , that the day of " might make right " be well and truly consign to history . I call the shadow Minister . I thank all hon . member for their contribution , not least my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , who always bring such knowledge and expertise to the House . I welcome the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Alison Taylor ) . I congratulate she on make she make speech and thank she for share her passion for her constituency with we . it be apt that you be in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , because of your great knowledge of this policy area . although we do not have formal diplomatic relation with Taiwan , there be nonetheless a valuable and dynamic relationship between London and Taipei , underpin by strong commercial , educational and cultural link . we also have a solid partnership in other important area , include health , as we see particularly during the pandemic . the work of the British Office Taipei and the Taipei Representative Office in London be highly commendable and benefit both of our people , for example with a wide range of exchange and visit , include on environmental , educational and judicial theme . we also have a significant trading relationship , which we call on the Government to continue to promote . trade in good and service rise from £ 5 . 5 billion in 2014 to £ 8 . 3 billion in 2023 , which be a substantial increase . we want more british business to benefit from Taiwan ' s impressive economy and prominent trade and investment link with the wide region . within the current structure of our unofficial relationship , there be more we can do to maximise the benefit to both of our people , and we will push the Government to do so . it be right that the UK continue to lobby in favour of Taiwan ' s participation in international organisation where statehood be not a prerequisite . in her response , will the Minister update the House on the Government ' s current plan on that front , include on the World Health Assembly and the World Health Organisation technical meeting ? the Government must not overlook the risk Taiwan have to contend with . there have be some worrying early sign , which we want to see put right . member on the conservative Benches harbour concern that the relationship Labour be carve out with Beijing be all give and no take . today provide the Minister with an opportunity to dispel the widespread impression that this Government be make concession with nothing in return . labour have call in the application for a new super - embassy in London and be desperately perform verbal contortion on issue that should be very straight - forward , include the national security law in Hong Kong . we firmly believe that law should be repeal and we be not afraid to say so publicly . will the Minister name a single area where measurable , tangible progress have be make in advance critical british interest with China , whether on national security , economic practice or human right ? as far as I can see , we be yet to receive a convincing answer . we be very clear that what Labour must not do be sacrifice the UK ' s voice on the threat face Taiwan on the altar of close relation with Beijing . we have already see sign of naivet é . within a day of the Prime Minister ' s meeting with President Xi Jinping , which the Prime Minister hail as an opportunity to bring about a " strong " and " consistent " relationship where " surprise " would be avoid , 45 pro - democracy campaigner be jail in Hong Kong , follow a very harsh application of the draconian national security law . it make the Prime Minister ' s boast that the UK would be a partner " commit to the rule of law " look rather hollow . the Prime Minister ' s response to these entirely unjustified jailing and his inability to sufficiently publicly condemn they have raise eyebrow too . it have not go unnoticed and we will not let that point go . the Government need to be much more clear eyed about the threat and challenge pose by China , whether in relation to Hong Kong or Taiwan . we be concern by report that the Foreign Office try to exert pressure to postpone an inward visit by the former President of Taiwan , Tsai Ing - wen . the fcdo have say it " do not recognise " the description of event set out in the report , which in Westminster language mean that it do not deny that this happen . will the Minister give the House the explanation it expect ? what actually happen ? will the Minister also confirm that the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have explicitly raise serious concern in their respective meeting with President Xi and Wang Yi about any activity that risk destabilise the cross - strait status quo ? do they say , in no uncertain term , that we stand firmly against any unilateral attempt to change the status quo ? for reason that be well understand , we have a clear interest in peace and stability in the Taiwan strait . it be our deep conviction that the tension , which have understandably receive a great deal of attention in this afternoon ' s debate , should be resolve peacefully . that be what will well serve people on both side of the Taiwan strait , as well as the Indo - Pacific region and the wide world . that peace and stability matter for the rule - base order , for trade and for the health of the global economy , and we should not shy away from say that . we hope that people on the two side of the Taiwan strait will renew effort to resolve difference peacefully through constructive dialogue and not under a cloud of coercion or threat . much of the debate on this subject revolve around the constitutional status of Taiwan and its relationship with China . yet we should never lose sight of Taiwan ' s domestic achievement in its own right , because they be deeply impressive : a flourishing and vibrant democracy , a strong judiciary and one of Asia ' s most dynamic economy . Taiwan be also a vital manufacturer of semi - conductor , which be one of the most important piece of tech in the world . for all those reason and many more , we will press the Government to deepen and grow our relationship . I call the Minister . may I say how apt it be that you be in the Chair this afternoon , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) for secure this important debate and for his first - class speech . I thank hon . member for their insightful contribution . I will try to respond to all the question in the course of my speech . as two thriving democracy , the UK and Taiwan share a unique relationship which be root in our share democratic value , cultural link and deep tie . despite not have formal diplomatic relation with Taiwan , we have strong unofficial link across a range of issue such as trade , education , science and cultural exchange . in that regard , I must commend my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) for her adept chairing of the British - Taiwanese all - party parliamentary group , which continue to play a fundamental role in foster those tie and encourage great parliamentary link and friendship — and , indeed , visit — between the people of the UK and Taiwan . on that point , we have question on visit from the two Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) and the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , and I will say that the good visit be the one that be organise by the friendship group , without too much interference from government . those link be drive by common interest such as security and prosperity , trade , innovation , climate action and global health , and in the first three quarter of this year , there be more british visitor to Taiwan than from any other european country . Taiwan - UK trade be worth £ 8 . 3 billion in the four quarter to the end of the second quarter of 2024 , and Taiwan remain a key destination for UK enterprise in clean energy and professional service . the british Office Taipei and the Taipei Representative Offices in London and Edinburgh support the partnership , in the absence of diplomatic relation . member of this House be familiar with recent tension in the Taiwan strait . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) lay they out in his introductory speech and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be very clear on that point . our long - stand position be clear : the issue should be resolve peacefully by people on both side of the strait , without the threat or use of force or coercion . peace and stability in the strait matter , not just for the UK but for the wide world . as the fcdo statement in October outline , recent chinese military exercise around Taiwan increase tension and risk dangerous escalation . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green be correct to carefully monitor the increase spending on the People ' s Liberation Army , and my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) be right to warn of the damaging element of cyber - warfare . a conflict across the strait would , of course , be a human tragedy , or as my hon . friend the Member for St Helens South and Whiston ( Ms Rimmer ) say , would have " dangerous consequence " . it would also be devastating to the global economy , with the study by Bloomberg Economics from January 2024 , which I think we have all read , estimate that it would cost the global economy $ 10 trillion , or 10 % of global gdp . no country with a high , middle or low income would be shield from the repercussion of such a crisis . that be why the UK do not support any unilateral attempt to change the status quo across the Taiwan strait . Taiwan be not just face pressure in the strait ; it be be prevent from participate meaningfully in large section of the international system . we believe that the people of Taiwan make an invaluable contribution to area of global concern and that the exclusion of taiwanese expertise be a loss both to the people of Taiwan and to the people of the UK . I therefore reply to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire in his excellent speech about the importance of Taiwan ' s meaningful participation in international organisation , as a member where statehood be not a prerequisite and as an observer or guest where it be . the Minister have mention the hon . member for East Renfrewshire and his excellent opening speech . he pose a question that I hope she can answer at some point . do his Majesty ' s Government now believe that a blockade of Taiwan would be consider an act of war ? I can confirm that we have ongoing conversation with ally about all the risk associate with the Taiwan strait , the South China sea , which have also be bring up in this debate , and other border . those include border with India and any other border where we have serious concern , because there be a number of threat to global security . we continue to make the case for Taiwan ' s reinstatement to the World Health Assembly as an observer . the UK have restate that several time , include alongside partner in recent G7 Foreign Ministers ' statement . its inclusion would benefit global health , include through participation in technical meeting and information exchange by the expert . the fact that a grow number of country join we in make statement on Taiwan ' s inclusion at this year ' s World Health Assembly meeting demonstrate that the issue resonate not just in the UK and Taiwan , but with many in the wide international community , and we be pleased to play that leadership role . we would all benefit from learn from Taiwan ' s experience in deal with pandemic , which , as we know , do not respect different geography . on that point , we believe that , as member have say today , there be a misconception in many quarter about what UN General Assembly resolution 2758 from 1971 determine . the UK ' s view be that the resolution decide that only the People ' s Republic of China should represent China at the United Nations . however , as my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire say , it make no separate or additional determination on the status of Taiwan and should not therefore be use to preclude Taiwan ' s meaningful participation in the UN or the wide international system on the basis that I have already set out . that be why the UK oppose any attempt to broaden the interpretation of resolution 2758 to rewrite history . I do not believe that that would be in the interest of the people of Taiwan , and neither would it be in UK or global interest . on wide UK - Taiwan collaboration , we will continue to strengthen the UK ' s unofficial relationship with Taiwan because both side derive enormous benefit from it , because the UK be a believer in the importance of free and open trade and , as the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam say , because the UK and Taiwan have strong cultural tie . our thrive £ 8 billion trade and investment relationship encompass a wide range of good and service , not least the UK ' s export of over £ 340 million - worth of Scotch whisky . I think that be quite appropriate , give that we have the wonderful maiden speech from my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Alison Taylor ) — I be sure she be a strong supporter of that wonderful export from her beloved Scotland — and that it take place just two day before St Andrew ' s Day . what could be well ? our enhance trade partnership that be announce last year , as my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham mention , will far strengthen co - operation in investment , digital trade , renewable energy and net zero . Taiwan produce the vast majority of the world ' s most advanced semiconductor that drive our digital economy , and it have a critical place in the technology supply chain that underpin global market . that be why we want our flourish science and technology co - operation to continue . just recently , the national technology adviser lead a delegation of 24 business to Taipei for the semicon Taiwan 2024 conference , where the UK have its large country pavilion to date . the two side also hold the annual Dialog Semiconductor and discuss the potential to expand co - operation on semiconductor skill , research and development , and supply chain resilience . I be pleased to say that we hold regular expert - level talk with Taiwan on a range of other important issue . hon . member may have see that our late energy dialogue conclude just last week . we be also partner on climate action . Taiwan be a key market for the UK offshore wind sector . our enhanced trade partnership will strengthen our co - operation on net zero technology , which be essential for the transition to a clean energy system and for bolster energy security . to conclude , this Government be maintain the UK ' s long - stand policy towards Taiwan and relation across the Taiwan strait . I be sure that parliamentary visit by mp will continue , give the feeling in the House today . our collaboration with Taiwan be mutually beneficial , which be why we continue to engage with Taiwan within the bound of our unofficial relationship . we continue to be a staunch advocate for Taiwan ' s meaningful international participation , because Taiwan ' s valuable expertise on a wide range of issue can only benefit the international community as we work to tackle share global challenge . we continue to work closely with our international partner to advocate for peace and stability , and to discourage any activity that undermine the status quo . before I finish , I be aware that I do not answer the question about the China audit , which be raise by colleague today . we expect it to be ready for public discussion in spring 2025 , but there be plenty of consultation — official and ministerial — happen in the meantime . the Foreign Affairs Committee will also be approach for comment . the UK have a critical role to play in support continued peace and stability in the strait through these channel . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I call Blair McDougall to wind up . I thank the Minister for restate the Government ' s position on the interpretation of UN resolution , and for celebrate Taiwan ' s society , economy and democracy , which I know will be well take by our visitor . it be encouraging that so many member speak in the House with one voice on this issue , regardless of party , and that so many member , include my hon . friend the Member for Bolton West ( Phil Brickell ) and the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , make it clear that the situation in Taiwan can not be separate out from wide question of human right in the People ' s Republic of China . I do not realise that my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Alison Taylor ) be go to give her maiden speech in this debate , but it be wonderful none the less and I congratulate she on it . we can all see why she be such a value friend and colleague to so many of we . she mention the former munition work in her constituency , which be now this beautiful , peaceful , new build community . that make I think that it be almost a metaphor for our attitude in the world ' s democracy . President Macron speak recently about how western democracy be herbivore in a world of carnivore . I think that we have forget the sacrifice and the strength that it take for we to enjoy the freedom we have today . hon . member reach back into different part of history to make that point . I be particularly pleased with the contribution of the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) . I be currently try to get my son interested in ancient greek history , so to hear someone quote from the melian dialogue in Parliament be music to my ear . the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) reach back slightly less far into the 20th century , but there be a pattern whereby dictator will take a little bit , a little bit more and little bit more , and if they be not meet with strength early on , they will eventually ask for something that we can not give . that be when it become a crisis , and when we have to make great sacrifice . what I be most encourage by today be that , as important as it be for this House to condemn with one voice any attempt to change the status quo through force , there be also a celebration of Taiwan . even if Taiwan be not a democracy , it would deserve protection from the international community , but it be a democracy , and we should protect its people . even if it do not have a vibrant , open society and free speech , we should be seek to show solidarity with its people , but it do have that open , vibrant society , so we must show that solidarity . even if it be not the dynamic economy that be so important and so integrated in everything that we do in the world economy , we should be recognise the cost of any conflict there , but it be integrate in the world economy . and even if we be not in a global context where authoritarian be on the march , we should stand up and say that we would not tolerate another democracy be bully by its nearby authoritarian neighbour and another society have to be force into defend its own freedom through force when , as an international community , we can prevent that from happen . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House , recall that United Nations Resolution 2758 of 25 October 1971 , which establish the People ' s Republic of China ( PRC ) as the only legitimate representative of China to the United Nations ( UN ) , do not mention Taiwan , note that UN Resolution 2758 do not address the political status of Taiwan or establish PRC sovereignty over Taiwan and be silent both on the status of Taiwan in the UN and on taiwanese participation in UN agency ; and call on the Government to clarify its position that UN Resolution 2758 do not establish the one China Principle as a matter of international law , to state clearly that nothing in law prevent the participation of Taiwan in international organisation and to condemn effort make by representative of the PRC to distort the meaning of UN Resolution 2758 in support of Beijing ' s one China Principle and the alteration of historic document by representative of the PRC , change the name of the country from Taiwan to Taiwan , province of China . Pakistan : Freedom of Religion I beg to move , that this House note report of deteriorate religious freedom in Pakistan ; express its concern over the alleged widespread force conversion and human right abuse of minority religious group ; deplore the lack of action by the pakistani government , which represent a serious violation of Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ; and further note that the arrest of opposition religious leader by the local authority have lead to condemnation both in Pakistan and far afield . may I first thank the Backbench Business Committee for agree to this debate and for grant time in the main Chamber for it ? I thank all hon . member who will make contribution to the debate . it be a pleasure to secure , I believe , the first debate on religious persecution in this Government ' s first Session . I think that it be the first time in about four or five year that we have have a debate on this subject in the main Chamber . in essence , we have score two in one today . I rise today with an urgent message about the plight of religious minority in Pakistan . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , and also as chair of the all - party group for pakistani minority , I have have the privilege of hear first - hand account of bravery , resilience and heartbreak from those who continue to face unimaginable persecution for their faith . I have always have a deep interest in Pakistan — even long before I come to this place — and for my brother and sister who be Christians in a country where persecution be rife , human right abuse be rampant and the right to express oneself be deny they . I visit Pakistan on two occasion in 2018 and 2023 . I would love to say that thing have change in Pakistan in those intervene five year , but they have not . indeed , they have get bad , and I will go into more detail on that as we move forward . our APPG for international freedom of religion or belief remain steadfast in its mission to uphold and defend the fundamental human right of freedom of religion or belief for all people regardless of faith or creed . as chair of that group , I speak up for those of christian faith , those of other faith and those of no faith . I believe in my heart that that be my duty to do that as a Christian . I always explain that when I deliberate on all the many religious group that be persecute today . I urge my esteemed colleague across the Chamber to join we in amplify the voice of the oppressed and take decisive action to address the systematic injustice that they endure . let I put this in plain language that we can all understand : the reality of the situation in Pakistan be dire . it be critical . it be at crisis point . in fact , I can understand why some people feel utterly hopeless . Pakistan be a lovely nation , with a rich and diverse history , but it remain fraught with challenge for its religious minority . Christians , Hindus , Ahmadis and Shi ' a Muslims face widespread discrimination , persecution and violence on a regular basis . the legislative and societal framework in Pakistan have create an environment where intolerance thrive . if we let something happen once , twice , three time , then 10 time , it become the norm . that be what have happen to religious minority in Pakistan . we be familiar with intervention from body such as Amnesty International and the United Nations even in our own country . obviously there be a far more acute need for their attention in place such as Pakistan . do that seem to be articulate and drive home adequately , and be it have an impact , especially on such appalling matter as force marriage and honour killing ? I would love to say that such intervention be have an impact , but unfortunately I do not see much evidence of it . our response have to be evidentially base . Amnesty International be involve , and present , in Pakistan . be it highlight these thing in Pakistan ? only Amnesty can answer that . we do not see much evidence of it . my concern be that the legislative and societal framework in Pakistan have create an environment where intolerance thrive . the blasphemy law , which I ask the Minister to respond to directly , be introduce during General Zia ul - Haq ' s regime . they be among the harsh in the world , and have be frequently weaponise against religious minority . I will give some example of that in the debate . do the hon . Member agree that the issue go beyond religious freedom into other equality matter such as woman ' s right and LGBT right , which go hand in hand ? I will mention that later ; it be a salient point , because whenever there be persecution base on people ' s religious belief , there be human right issue alongside it . the two thing be not separate ; they be married . if human right be take away , so be religious right . the hon . Gentleman be right to put that on the record . since the 1980 , many thousand of case have be report , disproportionately affect Christians , Hindus and Ahmadis . the blasphemy law be use not only to silence dissent but as tool for personal vendetta and mob incitement . when I be in Pakistan in 2023 , I meet some of those who have be charge under the blasphemy law . it be find that the allegation be vindictive and malicious : there be no evidential basis for they whatever . such accusation have lead to extrajudicial killing , violent attack and mass displacement . the hon . and learn Member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) refer to the plight of young Christian and Hindu girl who be abduct , forcibly convert to Islam and marry to their captor . that be not merely a violation of their religious freedom but an affront to their dignity and human right . in Sindh province alone , the practice have become alarmingly common , with inadequate legal protection allow perpetrator to evade justice . there be something wrong with a society that can let a 14 or 12 - year - old , or anyone who be still under the care of their parent , be take away , abduct and marry against their will . these be people of such innocence . it really disturb I , and unfortunately we have report that it be happen regularly in Pakistan . dignity First ' s 2024 report highlight more than 70 violent incident target Christians , range from mob violence to force conversion and abduction . in Jaranwala in Punjab , christian home and business be attack in what appear to be a premeditated assault on their religious identity . they be attack and brutalise because they be Christians . tragically , the authority have often fail to bring perpetrator to justice . christian have be subject to accusation of blasphemy that can result in torture or death at the hand of violent mob . the international community must demand that Pakistan take concrete step to end the violence against Christians and provide legal protection for all religious minority . this House believe in freedom for religious minority , wherever they be in the world . we therefore ask Pakistan to conform to that , and protect religious minority . I commend the organisation Alliance Defending Freedom International , which recently facilitate the rescue of Saima Bibi and Reeha Saleem , two brave young woman force into such marriage . their release be a triumph , but countless other remain trap in similar situation . their cry for help go unanswered . we ask the Minister to do something about that . I want to take up the plight of the Ahmadiyya muslim community in Pakistan . we be fortunate that the last time we be with they we be able to meet some of the imam and people at high level of the muslim faith . accord to the society in Pakistan , the Ahmadiyyas be a sect of Muslimism , but they do not conform to everyone else . therefore , accord to Pakistan law , they be heretic , if that be the right word to use , and outside the mainstream . there be something wrong with religious liberty if we can not accept that people have the right to choose the god they wish to worship . that right should be protect . declare non - Muslims by the state in 1974 , Ahmadis face systematic discrimination , enshrine in law . there be no freedom there . under ordinance XX , their religious practice , such as call their place of worship " mosque " or refer to their faith as " Islam " , be criminalise . the desecration of Ahmadi mosque and grave have become almost routine . the last time we be there , we see picture of church , mosque and gravestone that have be destroy , with the grave desecrate . since 2021 , more than 40 mosque and 421 grave have be destroy or deface . violent hate speech against Ahmadis be openly promote , with preacher incite mob to commit act of violence . it be not just a matter of verbally object ; they take it far . mob violence ensue and many people be hurt . just two and half month ago , the September 2024 commemoration of anti - ahmadi law be particularly chilling , as it embolden extremist and lead to further attack on that very vulnerable community . in the Parachinar Kurram district , Shi ' a Muslims — another sect — face relentless attack from extremist group , include the Taliban and isis - affiliate organisation . just this year , Parachinar be cut off from the rest of Pakistan due to a blockade , result in severe shortage of medical supply , food and fuel . eleven life be lose because critically ill patient could not access essential care . to pivot slightly , we also have an obligation to address the role of the Jamaat - e - Islami group in Pakistan . not only do it play a significant role in the 1971 Bangladesh liberation war , but it continue to shape religious and political landscape across the region . its student wing be call Islami Chhatra Shibir . the organisation have be involve in violent protest , include recent clash in Bangladesh over Government policy . found by Syed Abul Ala Maududi , Jamaat - e - Islami promote the idea of establish an islamic state , and have be link to extremist activity through connection with group such as Hamas and the Muslim Brotherhood . the legacy of Jamaat - e - Islami ' s involvement in atrocity during the liberation of Bangladesh still cast a shadow over its action today , both in Pakistan and Bangladesh . we want to see peace , stability and the democratic process work well , but there be those who work against that . in addition to the suffering of religious minority in Pakistan , we can not ignore the ongoing target violence against Shi ' a Muslims in region such as Parachinar . locate in Pakistan ' s volatile tribal belt , it have be the site of relentless sectarian violence , include a recent attack that leave 44 Shi ' a Muslims dead at the hand of extremist Sunni militia and the Taliban . those act of violence be not isolate , but part of a broad pattern of persecution against the Shi ' a community . in August 2024 , a conflict over land dispute escalate into deadly sectarian violence , leave 46 people dead and 200 injure . such violence be not isolate , but part of a broad pattern of target attack on Shi ' a Muslims , perpetuate cycle of hatred and division . the situation be urgent . these attack be an affront not only to basic human right but to the principle of religious tolerance and co - existence . let I give an example . whenever I be in Pakistan , we go to the Church of Pakistan — equivalent to the Church of England — and the hon . member for St Helens South and Whiston ( Ms Rimmer ) , who be no long here , go to the roman catholic cathedral . both place be surround by guard , inside and out , and there be metal gate on the entrance . we have a police guard , along with member of the army , the whole time we be there . simply be a Christian , or have any different religious persuasion , require extra security in that area . I remember see the parishioner as they leave the church to make their way home . when they walk out of the gate , nobody be there to guard they , while obviously we be be guard , and I be very conscious of that . I pay tribute to my hon . friend not only for secure the debate , but for his continue effort in this regard . he outline a litany of attack , which hopefully will be deplore by all , so will he join I in commend group such as Open Doors , which will publish its annual watch list in January ? that list itemise in good detail the type of attack , criticism and human right violation that exist across the globe , particularly for those persecute for their religious belief . my hon . friend be right to put that on the record . Pakistan will feature highly in the top 20 country where persecution be rife . it be one of those league that country do not want to be at the top of . it be not like the premier league ; country do not want to be no . 1 , or indeed anywhere in the top 20 . Pakistan ' s legal framework ostensibly guarantee religious freedom , under its constitution , yet the reality be far different . it have a single national curriculum , and as recently as 2021 that be criticise for marginalise religious minority . textbook continue to perpetrate stereotype , foster intolerance among the next generation . we have to be careful about what Pakistan do on education . we have hope that during our visit we would see some change and opportunity . Pakistan say it set many job aside for people from religious minority group , but the fact be we do not see that . there be many talented people who be christian , hindu , Shi ' a Muslim , Ahmadiyya , Baha ' I , or of a faith that do not conform with Pakistan ' s state faith , and they could do the same job every bit as well . minority student be force to study islamic content , isolate they far in a society already fraught with prejudice . economic discrimination compound those challenge . Non - Muslims be often relegate to low - status job with limited opportunity for social or professional mobility . that systematic marginalisation keep they in a cycle of poverty and vulnerability . I give the example of those people — mostly Christians — who work in the brick kiln . we do a report on Pakistan ' s religious minority in the last Session and present it to the Pakistan Government , but we have not have any response just yet . my christian brother and sister be persecute , beat and abuse in every way imaginable — I do not want to have to imagine it . their contract of employment be change in such a way that they be contract to the brick kiln for not just a couple of year , or perhaps 10 year ; they be there forever . that report also highlight that . the United Kingdom have a proud history of championing human right on the global stage . as we deepen our relationship with Pakistan , we must use all our influence to advocate for meaningful change , and I urge colleague to join I in call on the Minister to do so . I be pleased to see he and the new elect shadow Minister in their place , and I wish the shadow Minister well . I look forward to a consensus of opinion across the Chamber on this issue . I have a couple of ask for the Minister — more than a couple ; it always be with I , but I do so respectfully and in a positive fashion . can we advocate for blasphemy law reform by work with international ally to pressure Pakistan to reform those law , ensure that they can not be misuse against religious minority ? can we support victim of force conversion and force marriage by provide resource to non - governmental organisation work on the ground to rescue and rehabilitate victim ? can we press the Pakistan Government to implement strong legal safeguard to protect vulnerable girl and woman ? the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) refer to how woman and girl be consider as second - class in many case . if they be Christians , they be doubly second - class in that country . will we demand equal right for the Ahmadi people by advocate for the repeal of discriminatory law target the Ahmadiyya community and ensure that they be grant full right as citizen of Pakistan ? will we provide humanitarian aid to Parachinar and urge the Pakistan Government to lift the blockade , restore essential service and mediate sectarian conflict in order to prevent further bloodshed ? there be a mediation role for our Government in this country . in Pakistan it be more important , but it do not seem to happen . will we promote education reform by collaborate with the Pakistan authority to develop curricula that promote inclusivity and tolerance and that foster a culture of co - existence ? my final request to the Minister relate to my private Member ' s Bill — it will not be debate tomorrow because the focus will be on the assisted die Bill . my Bill ask for a special envoy for freedom of religion or belief to strengthen accountability and to set the precedent on the international stage that we be not for turn on human right or anybody ' s freedom of religion or belief . I know the Bill will be put off tomorrow , probably until March , because that be how the system work . I have ask for meeting with the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary , and hopefully those meeting will take place . I suspect that , have it not be for the wash - up after the sudden calling of the election , my previous Bill would probably have become law , because I have positive response to question I have ask in the Chamber on it . we hope that will be the case but , again , perhaps the Minister could explain the way forward . I want to cast my mind back to when we be in Pakistan in 2018 and mention the blasphemy law . Most people here will know the case of Asia Bibi . she be accuse of blasphemy . it be a vexatious , malicious , vindicative and untrue allegation , but none the less she be subject to the law that pervade in Pakistan . she fight her case and be sentence . when we be in Pakistan , we meet two of the three judge who would make the decision . I be not say that we do any well than anybody else — that be not why I be say it — but we speak about how and why the blasphemy law be use against people of a different faith . the Minister at the time — I think it be Mark Field — say , " Don ' t say anything about Asia Bibi , because the two judge we meet tell we that they be of a mind to set she free . " we understand the process : do not say too much about it at home and let the process run . it do and she be free . she now live in Canada , but there be so many other Asia Bibis who live in Pakistan and also deserve to be protect . we must be clear that we stand on the side of the people of Pakistan and that hate and intolerance divide and hurt people . it be within our power to support stability and freedom through our influence and by be resolute in our commitment to the region . we can not be idle . long before I come to this place , a former Prime Minister say : " the lady ' s not for turn . " we all know who that be . I suggest that we use that same spirit and that we must not step back from our commitment . the challenge face religious minority in Pakistan be immense but not insurmountable . we have the tool , the influence and the moral responsibility to act . by join force with international partner , civil society organisation and the pakistani diaspora , we can help to create a Pakistan where no one be persecute for their faith . that be the objective of this debate ; that be the goal that I hope we might be able to achieve . let we not be silent witness to such atrocity . let we stand together and be a voice for the voiceless , a shield for the defenceless and a beacon of hope for those who have know only darkness . I always conclude my remark in such debate with a scripture text . proverb 31 : 8 - 9 say : " open your mouth for the mute , for the right of all who be destitute . open your mouth , judge righteously , defend the right of the poor and needy . " let we do just that today . I congratulate the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on secure the debate and thank the Backbench Business Committee , through which he secure it . I also congratulate he on this upgrade from Westminster Hall to the main Chamber — some argue that Westminster Hall should be rename the " Shannon debating forum . " I will take up the hon . Gentleman ' s point , as I be sure other will , about the Ahmadiyya community . like other member in the Chamber , I have an Ahmadiyya community in my constituency . they operate under the slogan of " love for all , hatred for none . " we see that campaign on our London bus at one point a few year ago . they relate to I exactly what the hon . Gentleman describe : distressing tale of what be happen to their community in Pakistan . as he say , just describe oneself as a member of the Ahmadiyya community be an offence under the penal law in Pakistan . do so can result in a three - year term of imprisonment , a fine , or even death . in addition , if people call their place of worship a mosque , or their call to prayer — the adhan — go out , they can be prosecute under that penal code , which be appal . the briefing that the all - party parliamentary group receive recently highlight that the situation have get significantly bad this year . in the briefing , we be tell that at least four people have be murder because of their religion . we also have a list with a number of people who have be arrest and imprison for their religion . in prison , their situation be extremely precarious ; there be also worry about torture . publication be ban , and to be able to vote , Ahmadis be place on a separate list — in fact , many of they be disenfranchise as a result . in the past , when we have raise those matter in debate , in this Chamber and in Westminster Hall , government of all political complexion have make representation . at time there have be some alleviation because the world have focus its attention on Pakistan ' s behaviour , but the report that we get show that recently thing have be get dramatically bad . that be why we need some action from our Government . I agree with the hon . Gentleman about the need to work through international agency to shine a light on what be happen and make representation . it be key now that we mobilise pressure as much as we can to influence the Pakistani Government to scrap the blasphemy law be use so ferociously against the Ahmadiyya community and other . let I say something that might prove contentious for some . I think we now need to think about go beyond that . there be individual in Pakistan , within the Administration and the security force , who we can now identify as lead on some of these human right abuse , and I wonder whether we should treat they as human right abuser , as we would other from other country . that would mean name and shame , of course , but also instigate some form of sanction against they . Most of those individual have a relationship with this country in one form or another . in fact , many of they will be use their resource via investment vehicle in this country . I feel that we need to take a strong view and strong action than we have in the past , because the situation have deteriorate . another issue , which we have raise before , be that although we provide a fair amount of aid and assistance to Pakistan — that be fine ; I completely understand that — it be important that that aid be not abuse . for example , the pakistani Government nationalise Ahmadiyya school and have never return they to the community . we fund education in Pakistan , so we need to be conditional about how that investment in education be make . a second point that might be provocative be that we must consider the funding of the organisation campaign for human right in Pakistan and internationally , so that we can strengthen their arm in advocate on behalf of the Ahmadiyya community . that be my position on the Ahmadiyya community . I will slightly abuse the scope of the debate if I may , Madam Deputy Speaker . human right abuse in Pakistan have worsen in this recent period , not just for Ahmadiyyas but for other . at the moment , severe repression be take place in Balochistan . there be a history in the last year , and in the recent month in particular , of repression among the Baloch . the pakistani authority have introduce a strategy of disappearance . large number of people have simply disappear . a crudity about that be that it involve " find and dump " — the only way in which people who disappear be find be when their body be dump on the street in that region . the form of repression take place in Balochistan be produce a resistance movement . unfortunately , some of that be armed resistance , and we have see what be be classify as terrorist action , so there be a deterioration . however , there be also a peace movement , which be largely lead by woman . they have be instigate marche over the past 12 month . unfortunately , they be now be arrest and the peace and human right movement in Balochistan be be savagely repressed . if we be take up these issue of religious freedom , we should extend consideration to the whole range of human right abuse take place in Pakistan . I would not want to see a destabilisation of the country as a result of a reactionary government take these measure . from my understanding , people be on the edge — they have have enough — and unfortunately the response from the Pakistani Government do not suggest that they will reconsider their strategy of repressive measure . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for secure the debate , and be grateful to he and other member for their excellent contribution . Pakistan ' s constitution enshrine the right of every citizen to " profess , practice and propagate his religion " , and in January , the Minister of Foreign Affairs go as far as to claim : " Pakistan have undertake wide range measure to promote religious freedom and protect minority right . " that be sadly and simply untrue . in the face of force conversion and mob violence , the pakistani Government be far too often fail to fulfil their basic duty of protect their citizen . even more seriously , there be widespread evidence of the state actively support the discrimination of certain religious minority , include Shi ' a Muslims , Christians and Hindus , with law against blasphemy in particular be use to undermine their human right and freedom . today , however , I will focus on the Ahmadi Muslim community , who be subject to some of the most serious discrimination . I be proud that many in the Ahmadi Muslim community live and / or worship in my constituency , which be home to Morden ' s magnificent Baitul Futuh mosque , the large mosque in the UK and the worldwide headquarters of the faith . it be from there that the caliph ' s regular Friday sermon be televise live throughout the world , but while Ahmadi Muslims can practise in freedom in this country , that be sadly not the case for those watch and listen to he in Pakistan . I have hear from the mosque and from many of my constituent about the persecution that their community face on a daily basis in Pakistan . in their mosque , their home and their business , Ahmadi Muslims be face persecution merely for observe their faith . I also have a number of Ahmadiyya Muslims in Epsom and Ewell , and it be really shameful that this faith group have to move its home to the UK to avoid exactly this persecution . do my hon . friend agree that all religious group in Pakistan should have the freedom to practise their faith , and that we in this House should be a voice for the persecute ? I completely agree . we have an absolute duty to enforce that and make sure that happen . the Pakistani Government be do more than just turn a blind eye to this discrimination , with the state actively seek to marginalise the Ahmadi Muslim community . unless Ahmadi Muslims declare themselves to be non - Muslims , they be not permit to stand for office or vote — they be deny a voice in the system that be mean to uphold their right . it be important to note that this be not always the case : for example , the first Foreign Minister of Pakistan , Sir Chaudhry Zafarullah Khan , be an Ahmadi Muslim . sadly , however , Ahmadi Muslim freedom have be undermine by the Pakistani Government over time , but that do not mean that those right can not be restore . for that reason , our Government should be speak more loudly on this issue . the UK be Pakistan ' s third large trading partner and its large in Europe . we be consequently not without influence . disenfranchised and marginalise Pakistani Ahmadi Muslims have very few option at their disposal . it be therefore our duty to raise our voice , and for the Government to do what they can to help protect their right and those of other religious minority . I consequently echo my party leader ' s call last year to reconsider Pakistan ' s trade preference . I also hope the Government will work with Ahmadi muslim refugee across the world and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to preserve those refugee ' safety . as Gladstone say in 1877 : " nonconformity supply the backbone of English Liberalism . " the Government must do what they can to continue this country ' s proud liberal tradition , protect the right of the Ahmadi Muslims and other religious minority in Pakistan . I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for organise this important debate . from the many example he have give from his long time spend fight for religious freedom in Pakistan and for Christians around the world , I can see that this be something he care deeply about , and it be important that we be discuss it today . like the Minister , I spend some time work in Pakistan with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . I spend three year work in Islamabad and Lahore from 2019 to 2021 . I spend a lot of that time travel around Punjab — I have responsibility for that province within the fcdo — and a lot of the example that the hon . member for Strangford give be really familiar . I will talk about some of those example in a moment , but before I do so , I want to highlight some of the other aspect of Pakistan that I see there , include some of the more positive one , which may be example of how religious minority should be treat that we can give when we be talk to Pakistan in the future . in my time travel throughout Punjab , I get to see many religious site . travel through the old city of Lahore , there be the very impressive Badshahi Masjid . you can travel down to Derawar in Bahawalpur and see a fantastic fort there ; there be the Rukn - e - Alam shrine in Multan , as well as the gurdwara at Nankana Sahib , and of course there be Lahore cathedral . I mention all those site not because I want to give people a tour of Pakistan , or indeed to promote its tourism industry — although that definitely should be encourage — but to highlight that all those magnificent building be from different religion . Pakistan have a proud history of various minority throughout the age , from the Buddhists of the Gandhara civilisation to Hindus , Sikhs , Muslims of various sect , Ahmadis and Christians . there be part of the country that recognise that history . spend time with each of those group be a real privilege . of course , this be a debate on freedom of religion and belief , and while there be huge concern about the treatment of minority in Pakistan , I want to give one positive example of something that have happen in recent year . towards the end of my time in Pakistan , I have the opportunity to visit the Kartarpur corridor , on the border between Pakistan and India . it be a site build on the location that be use by Guru Nanak when he first establish the Sikh community in the 16th century . for a long time , it be divide between India and Pakistan , but in 2019 Narendra Modi and Imran Khan allow access for the community to cross between their two country . when I visit in 2020 , I meet pilgrim from India who have come to Pakistan to meet relative in the Sikh community whom they have not see since partition nearly 80 year before . the joy on the face of those people , who be enable to do that by the promise make by the Pakistani Government , show that it be possible for the Government to be more positive toward some religious minority . in the three year I be base in Punjab , there be numerous case of brutal attack on religious minority , some of which the hon . member for Strangford mention . I will give three more example from the time I be there . in April 2021 , there be a mob attack in Faisalabad on Mariam Lal and Newsh Arooj , two christian nurse who have be ask to clean up locker in the hospital in which they be work . they be set on by a mob after accusation of blasphemy , and they be later arrest by the police and hold in prison for some time . they have now be release , fortunately . in December 2021 , there be the lynching of Priyantha Kumara in Sialkot . Priyantha be a Buddhist from Sri Lanka who be run a factory as the general manager . he be lynch by an angry mob after accusation of blasphemy while the police stand by and be unable to intervene . in August 2022 , there be the stabbing of Naseer Ahmed , a 62 - year - old Ahmadi grandfather , who refuse to chant slogan in support of Tehreek - e - Labbaik Pakistan . for that crime , he be murder in the street by an angry pakistani man . I raise those three incident not because they be extraordinary , but because they feel routine . on a weekly basis when I be there , I would hear of bad example from the christian community , the Ahmadi community and other about the brutal violence and humiliation to which they be subject . Sumera Shafique , a friend of mine who work for the Christian Lawyers Association of Pakistan , would call I regularly to update I about the false conversion she be work on , particularly in the south of Punjab . many people from the Ahmadiyya community , who would obviously prefer to be anonymous at the moment , regularly raise with I the victimisation they be face , with their mosque be destroy and their school be close down . as we hear from other member , school have also be nationalise by the Government . there have even be the introduction of a new marriage law mean that an Ahmadiyya Muslim in Pakistan must renounce their faith to get marry . the level of discrimination be quite outrageous . I be lucky to have a significant Ahmadiyya community in my own constituency , with the Baitul Ghafoor mosque on Long Lane in Halesowen . it hold a number of inter - faith event , and I have be to many of they . I have be pleased to see the welcome that member provide to many people from different religious background . the contrast with the way the Ahmadiyya community be treat in Pakistan be strike . when I be in Lahore , I have many discussion with the Human Rights Ministers of Punjab , Khalil Tahir Sandhu and Ramesh Singh , whom I still count as friend . I know they face a very difficult situation , and it be very challenging to work within the system to improve the condition of religious minority . many people in Pakistan and in the Government be try to do that , but I would of course encourage they to do more . finally , I thank the hon . member for Strangford again for organise this debate on a subject that I think we should be talk about more . I know it be an extremely difficult subject for the fcdo to work on , and I understand the limitation we be work under , but I ask the Minister to continue to raise the deteriorate situation that religious minority have face in recent year with our counterpart in Pakistan . I also ask he to commit to include freedom of religion or belief in the discussion about the future co - operation and trade agreement that we be have with Pakistan , and to use every opportunity across Government to hold discussion to push that forward . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on bring forward this debate and allow we to discuss this incredibly important issue in this House . on 25 November 1981 , the General Assembly of the United Nations pass resolution 36 / 55 , which say : " discrimination between human being on the ground of religion or belief constitute an affront to human dignity and a disavowal of the principle of the Charter of the United Nations , and shall be condemn as a violation of the human right and fundamental freedom proclaim in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . " nearly half a century have pass since those word be write , and they come just seven year after the passage of the second amendment to the constitution of Pakistan , which declare that Ahmadi Muslims be " not a Muslim for the purpose of the Constitution or the law . " my speech will concentrate on the Ahmadi community , but that should not diminish the persecution and discrimination suffer by other community , which have be mention by many hon . member . many decade on , we still find ourselves grapple with the critical injustice , prejudice and persecution that that amendment enshrine in law and enable . that be what the current legal framework in Pakistan have do . it have enable not just legal exclusion and prosecution , but ongoing hate speech and violent persecution . extremist cleric in Pakistan have call for Ahmadi Muslims to be hang or behead , for their woman to be murder to prevent more Ahmadi Muslims from be bear , and even for the Government of Pakistan to understand that if they do not act , the people will take matter into their own hand and kill Ahmadi Muslims themselves . if anyone have any lingering doubt about whether that awful rhetoric extend only to call for violence within Pakistan ' s border , I refer they to one rally this year where the following be say : " we have to strangle each and every Ahmadi … you have no idea how powerful this slogan be ! you will raise it here , an Ahmadi will die in Great Britain . " that abhorrent rhetoric have no place in a democratic republic such as Pakistan , and I know from conversation with many of my constituent , as well as Ahmadi Muslims across London , that it absolutely terrify Ahmadi Muslims in Pakistan and here in the UK . we too often forget that rhetoric have consequence , and violent rhetoric become violence as surely as night become day . sure enough , violent hate crime across Pakistan and around the world against Ahmadi Muslims be at shocking level . this year , four Ahmadi Muslims be kill in a target manner . Tahir Iqbal , president of a local Ahmadi Muslim community , be shoot dead by two motorcyclist . Zaka ur Rehman , a dentist , be kill in his own clinic by two gunman . in both case , no perpetrator have be identify and bring to justice . in Sadullahpur , two Ahmadi Muslims , Ghulam Sarwar and Rahat Ahmad Bajwa , be murder in separate incident on the same day . the alleged perpetrator , a 16 - year - old student of a madrassah , confess to the killing , cite religious reason — 16 year old . I invite hon . member to recall the poisonous rhetoric that I have just outline , and to which that young man must have be expose in order to carry out such a heinous act . it seem that violence against Ahmadi Muslims be rarely investigate , and in many case be seemingly encourage or enable by local official and policeman in Pakistan . in June , 30 Ahmadi Muslims be arrest for the crime of celebrate Eid . Ahmadi home be attack , an Ahmadi mosque be ransack , and the police stand by and do nothing . early this year in January , it be allege that local police in the Punjab region , act under instruction from a local official , take part themselves in another disconcertingly common and awful act of hatred : the desecration of tomb in an Ahmadi Muslim graveyard . desecration be a particularly cowardly and heinous act , and serve only to underscore the severity of the situation face Ahmadi Muslims in Pakistan . freedom of worship be inextricably link with freedom of expression and speech , and as a Liberal I will always place the great currency on that most cherish of virtue . but as all liberal society have find , freedom of speech can not extend to freedom of hate speech or the freedom to incite violence and hatred , and the Pakistani Government ought to be remind of that fact in our bilateral engagement . nobody should have to live like that , and to face hatred , threat , violence and death just for worship their own religion in a peaceful manner in a democratic country . it go against every principle we hold dear in the community of international law , and against our every principle as an open , democratic , tolerant nation ourselves , not least as a nation that be bind to Pakistan by a common history , a common language and a track record of collaboration on tackle extremism in the region . we must be a critical partner of Pakistan . I call on the Government to respond to the concern raise in the House today and to please come forward with reassurance that , at every single opportunity , the plight of Ahmadi Muslims in Pakistan will be raise with the Government of that country . our conscience call on we not to turn a blind eye . Ahmadi Muslims , like member of all faith , deserve to worship free from intimidation and discrimination . the Liberal Democrats have long be in favour of a rigorous , value - base foreign policy that put our money where our mouth be . we can not just talk a good game on protect minority around the world and stand up for the fundamental freedom outline in the declaration of human right ; we must use our leverage with government such as that in Pakistan to encourage they to take serious and concrete step towards make it a reality . this should be an issue that unite we across the House — I be encourage to hear that it do — and one that remind we not just of our obligation under international law but our moral duty to those face oppression everywhere . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate my friend the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) on secure this vital debate in the Chamber and on continue the noble work of his predecessor , our former colleague Fiona Bruce , as chairman of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant the debate . it be a privilege to respond on behalf of his Majesty ' s most loyal opposition . Pakistan be a Commonwealth partner , and our path have be intertwine for an important part of our shared history . the UK and Pakistan have a close and long - stand relationship underpin by strong link between our people , especially through the Commonwealth of Nations . I have be intrigue — and please , to be honest — to hear the passion with which member from both side of the House have speak . the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) speak passionately about the persecution of the Ahmadi people . while the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) and I rarely agree on thing , he speak passionately about his own community and quote what the Ahmadi community say : " love for all , hate for none . " could a single Member of the House ever disagree with that ? the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) represent a large community with the mosque in Morden — I know the mosque he refer to — which I think be part of his constituency . I have learn a lot about the Ahmadi community this afternoon . it be deeply distress to hear about some of the incident that have occur . the hon . member for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) speak from experience , have represent the government — I assume her Majesty ' s Government — in Islamabad as a diplomat ; I thank he for his service . he relay his experience and give example of some of the horrendous persecution that have take place . I go to Pakistan as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee some year ago . I think that we be unite in the House in stand up for freedom of religion and want to see a change . some of the incident and persecution in Pakistan that we have hear about be completely wrong . the 1956 constitution of Pakistan include liberty for people to profess their religion " freely " . however , today , freedom of self - expression be subject to article 19 of the constitution . accord to this year ' s Open Doors world watch list , Pakistan be the seventh most dangerous nation in the world to reside in as a Christian . church have endure regular attack , and those with strong community outreach have face severe right violation . there be also concern about career prospect be more limited for Christians than for other . the Minister will be aware that the previous Government establish the Coalition for Religious Equality and Inclusive Development , a british Government - fund multi - country programme that have implement a project in Pakistan to protect minority who work as sewage and sanitation worker . can this House have the Minister ' s assurance that the work of that organisation will continue under the new Government ? since the 1980 , Pakistan ' s blasphemy law have become more and more severe and oppressive . Ahmadis have be subject to blasphemy law that carry the punishment of three year imprisonment and severe fine , the most notable of which be ordinance XX , which prohibit Ahmadis from publicly practise their islamic faith and forbid they from use sacred text for prayer . that simply can not be right . ahmadi have be deny identity card and be coerce into sign faith - relate document . minister in previous government have raise the issue of the Ahmadi Muslims in Pakistan and with Pakistan ' s Foreign Minister and high commissioner . give that there have be several case of brutal extrajudicial killing of Ahmadi Muslims in recent month , some be high profile member of their community , I hope that we will receive the Minister ' s reassurance that that will remain the case , and that minister continue to press our counterpart in Islamabad and the high commissioner here in London about the issue raise in today ' s debate . despite make up only 2 % of the pakistani population , Christians be subject to roughly a quarter of all accusation of blasphemy . anyone openly call for reform of blasphemy law be openly threaten by radical . accord to Associated Press News on 5 September 2023 , in August last year at least 17 church be set on fire in Jaranwala . hundred of house be attack and hundred of Christians flee from their home , subsequent to inaccurate accusation of blasphemy . I be pleased that the Foreign Secretary at that time raise these attack against Christians in Jaranwala with Pakistan ' s Prime Minister last September . additionally , that August , Lord Ahmad , the then Foreign Office Minister , write to Pakistan ' s caretaker Foreign Minister urge the Government to ensure the safety of the christian community follow these atrocious attack . such reprisal be not restrict to Christians and Ahmadi Muslims . unfortunately , Hindus too have be subject to increase violence . in July 2023 , a Hindu temple in the Sindh province of Pakistan be attack , and in June 2022 , a Hindu temple in Karachi be destroy . accord to the National Council of Churches in Pakistan , not just since the adoption of the 1973 constitution nor since the turn of this century but annually , as many as 1 , 000 christian and hindu girl be kidnap . there be also report of christian child be obligate to attend islamic lesson at their local madrassah , while christian teaching be restrict to the home . I hope that the Government be once again raise these concern with our counterpart in the Pakistani Government . article 4 of the Commonwealth charter , which I be sure the Minister will know , state the need to promote religious freedom . whether it be woman who have be snatch from their home and force to profess a religion that they do not follow , or man who be target through blasphemy charge , there be clearly issue that need to be address most urgently . religion have provide a bedrock for the pakistani people and serve as a source of motivation for the betterment of society , and all must be free to pursue their belief without fear . while I have the opportunity , I will commend the work of my friend — a friend to many in this House — Fiona Bruce , the former Member for Congleton , whom I mention early . she dedicate many year of her time in this place to fight for freedom of religion or belief and against the persecution of minority who wish to worship freely . one of the tower achievement of the previous Government be to appoint the United Kingdom ' s first ever special envoy for freedom of religion or belief . I therefore ask the Minister to assure the House that his Majesty ' s Government will be do the same , and that an appointment to this position will be announce very soon . two year ago , the Conservative Government bring together 800 faith and belief leader and human right activist and 100 Government delegation for the international ministerial conference on freedom of religion to agree a plan to encourage and defend those fundamental inalienable right . the outcome of the conference bore witness to the pledge of 47 government , international organisation and other entity to take action in support of freedom of religion or belief . through the soft power of our diplomatic network , the previous Government be able to solidify coalition of support to protect freedom of religion or belief for all within international body and through the multilateral framework , harden obligation for state to uphold their human right obligation . once again , I sincerely hope that the Government will continue the work of the Conservative Government in the previous Parliament . on a separate note , early this year , the Conservative Government put on record their serious concern about the fairness and lack of inclusivity of Pakistan ' s recent election . we be clear we regret that not all party be allow to contest the election , and that legal process be use to prevent some political leader from participation and the use of recognisable party symbol . I be sure the House be also aware that restriction be impose on internet access on polling day and that there be significant delay to the reporting of result and claim of irregularity in the counting process . the new Labour Government need to urge the authority in Pakistan to uphold fundamental human right , include those I and many other member have touch on , as well as other important freedom include free access to information . the rule of law must be unflinchingly uphold . to be crystal clear , that include the right to a fair trial , which , for the avoidance of doubt , mean adherence to due process within an independent , transparent judicial system , free from interference . to that end , will the Minister say what discussion on those issue the new Government have have with the Government of Pakistan ? will he say what labour ' s position be on the imprisonment and general treatment of former Prime Minister Imran Khan ? as he will know , that have cause huge division within the pakistani community . to conclude , I believe the United Kingdom have be at the vanguard of defend freedom of religion and belief , civil liberty and human right . we urge his Majesty ' s Government to continue this important work to protect all those who choose to practise their faith , and who have the right — and must continue to have the right — to do so without fear and in freedom . as the hon . member for Strangford say , there can be no turning back in our defence of freedom of liberty , the rule of law and the right of people throughout our world to share and practise a religion without fear . I hope his Majesty ' s Government will follow that tradition . I be grateful to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for secure this important debate . I pay tribute to his work as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief . I know he have be engage on these issue for some time . I note that the group visit Pakistan last year and publish important recommendation for improve the state of freedom of religion . its commitment to defend the right of vulnerable community across the globe do not go unnoticed . I be grateful , too , for the contribution of other hon . member . I join the shadow Minister in pay tribute to the service of my hon . friend the Member for Halesowen ( Alex Ballinger ) in Pakistan . I will respond to the point raise and highlight what the UK be do to help protect the right of minority in Pakistan . I would like to reassure the House that I be in Pakistan last week . I be the first british Government Minister to visit for some year — more than two , I believe — and , as I understand it , I be the only G7 Minister to have visit Pakistan this year . as the House know , and have be clear from the debate , Pakistan be an important country , a strategic country , and it be important that we stay engaged in the full range of issue go on in that country . on that note , Madam Deputy Speaker , I hope you will allow I to provide some brief comment on current event in Pakistan . I be deeply concerned by the report of loss of life arise from this week ' s protest in Islamabad , which I know have be follow very closely in the House . the UK Government support individual ’ right to protest , and urge the pakistani authority to respect those fundamental freedom . we be closely monitor the situation , include the potential impact on british national . we be concern by report that a number of journalist have go miss follow the protest , include Matiullah Jan , a respected pakistani journalist and a chevening scholar . the UK remain committed to media freedom and the protection of journalist . we will urge the authority to ensure the safe return of all journalist . I also want to express my sincere condolence to all those affect by the abhorrent violence in Kurram over the past week . my thought be with the family of those kill and injure . we hope that a peaceful resolution can be reach . we remain in contact with the relevant individual . my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) ask about the situation in relation to the Baloch , in particular the protest lead by woman in Balochistan . I be aware of report of enforce disappearance . the UK strongly condemn any instance of extrajudicial killing or enforce disappearance . we urge state to investigate any allegation fully , to prosecute those responsible and to provide justice to victim and their family . we continue to encourage progress towards the criminalisation of enforce disappearance in Pakistan . Britain have a long relationship with Pakistan found on our share history and warm tie between our people . we have hear some of that today . like my hon . friend the Member for Halesowen , I serve in Pakistan in 2010 when some of the incident refer to this afternoon occur , include the concern incident with Asia Bibi . as I say , last week I have the pleasure of visit this beautiful country . I meet Ministers , business and religious leader . I can reassure the House that in all my engagement I raise some of these important issue . we know that many minority in Pakistan face injustice , include structural discrimination , economic exclusion and wide social intolerance . I share member ' concern about the increase misuse of Pakistan ' s blasphemy law . too often these law be use to settle personal vendetta , with insufficient evidence or safeguard for those accuse . once an accusation be make , there be a high risk of vigilante violence . for example , in May an elderly christian man die of his injury follow an assault by a large mob in Punjab . these abhorrent attack form part of a wide pattern of discrimination and violence towards marginalised religious community . frequently , when accusation be make — accusation that be often vexatious and malicious , with no evidential basis whatsoever — the police stand by and do nothing to control the mob violence . could the Minister perhaps take that on board when he next have discussion with the pakistani Government ? we want a Pakistan police force that be independent and apply the same rule of law to everyone , but it be clear that that be not currently the case . I raise the specific question of how policing operate in relation to religious minority with the Pakistani Minister for Law and Human Rights , the Minister for Interior , and personnel from Pakistan ' s security establishment just last week . let I now turn to the subject of Ahmadi Muslims in Pakistan , who , as many have point out this afternoon , continue to receive threat from extremist group . regrettably , a number have be murder . the practice of force marriage and conversion be devastate the life of woman and girl from minority religious community . we in the House should welcome small positive step , such as an amendment to the Christian Marriage Act 1872 to equalise the age of marriage between christian boy and girl in Punjab , but more clearly need to be do to protect the right of both muslim and religious minority girl across Pakistan . let I now say a little about what the UK be do to help . this Government recognise the central importance of promote a more open society in Pakistan . we regularly engage with its government , with like - minded partner and with other stakeholder to raise concern and discuss way of protect marginalised community . generally , our assessment be that private engagement with Pakistan ' s authority be the most effective way to get our message across . my recent visit be an excellent opportunity to convey those message to an array of senior Ministers . I meet the Human Rights Minister to discuss the importance of promote religious tolerance and harmony . I highlight concern about recent incident of blasphemy - relate violence and the misuse of blasphemy law . I also raise the issue of force marriage and conversion , and the Minister assure I that effort be under way to pass new legislation to help address it . I meet the Minister of Interior as well , alongside with the british high commissioner . we underline concern about threat of violence towards Ahmadi Muslims , and stress the need for police protection . again , we receive assurance that the authority would work hard to protect minority community . the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) express concern about his constituent in the UK . while policing be clearly a matter independent from the Government , this Government will do everything — as one would expect — to ensure the freedom of religious belief and ensure that religious minority feel protect here . since my visit , the high commissioner have speak to the Punjab Minister for Minority Affairs about some of the incident that have be describe this afternoon . she raise concern regard extremist threat make against minority group , include Ahmadi Muslims , and push for more action on force marriage and conversion . to maximise the impact of our engagement , we co - ordinate closely with the wide international community and work alongside international organisation such as the International Labour Organisation in relation to the forced labour of child in brick kiln , which I even witness many year ago when I serve in Pakistan . many people whose young female child have be abduct and kidnap for the purpose of marriage be probably illiterate — I be just be observational here — and do not understand the paperwork in front of they . when our deputation be in Pakistan back in 2023 , we suggest that a legal representative should be make available to each of those people to take their case forward . it be a simple measure , but it would be incredibly effective . I thank the hon . member for his consideration of these issue . I be happy to write to he in more detail about what we be do in Pakistan to try to ensure that woman and girl , both from minority community and across the whole of Pakistan , be able to prosecute their right . question about illiteracy be clearly relevant , but I be afraid that a far wide range of issue make it hard for woman and girl across Pakistan to assert their full right . during my trip , I be pleased to visit Pakistan ' s national mosque , the Faisal mosque . I meet the Grand Imam , Dr Muhammad Ilyas , and we discuss the importance of promote interfaith harmony and tolerance . such engagement be a vital part of the UK ' s approach to freedom of religion or belief , a principle that must be support across all community in Pakistan . member have pose question about our aid programme , so I will briefly comment on that . alongside our diplomatic engagement , I be glad that the UK ' s target aid programme be help to protect human right and boost inclusion . for example , our £ 47 million accountability and inclusion programme help to change social behaviour and promote interfaith harmony by encourage dialogue between influential community leader . follow the Sargodha attack in May , the programme prevent further violence by help to engage with the police to identify tension and resolve community dispute at the local level . we also raise awareness about the harm of early enforce marriage , and have reach over 35 million people with our messaging to date . I note the comment from my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington about aid conditionality . we try to ensure that our aid be closely target . where there be concern , we raise they diplomatically , and our aid programme be an important component of our contribution towards try to address these issue in Pakistan . member also raise the issue of modern slavery . I commend representative of both Houses for raise awareness of this issue in Pakistan . I see it with my own eye during my service , and I know that many member of the House have see it too . we be support Pakistan ' s Government to improve law and strengthen related system in order to protect marginalised and vulnerable group . we have support the pakistani authority to undertake the first child labour survey in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa , Punjab and Balochistan . the data be be use to shape policy on child bond labour , include form system to protect child . we have also help set up eight child court across Pakistan to provide justice for victim of child abuse , child trafficking and child marriage . as these example show , we be determined to ensure that aid reach those who need it most . let I turn to the point make about the special envoy . I understand that minister be consider the role , and we should be in a position to update the House soon . I pay tribute to the previous envoy . as I hope the House can see , this Government will remain focused on these issue , in Pakistan and elsewhere , with or without an envoy . this Government place freedom of religion or belief at the heart of our work in Pakistan , and it be a major part of my visit last week . Pakistan must be open and tolerant , and we will continue to work with its Government and all key stakeholder , include this House , towards that end . I thank right hon . and hon . member for their speech and intervention , which be much appreciated . we have hear about the barbaric attack on Christians in Jaranwala province , the relentless persecution of the Ahmadis , the genocidal violence against Shi ' a Muslims in Parachinar and the oppression of the Baloch people , to which the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) refer . all those thing focus our attention , and I be conscious that the action we take today will speak louder than any word . I believe we have the power to influence change , to hold the Pakistani Government accountable and to stand in solidarity with the oppressed . let we remember that the fight for religious freedom , justice and peace be not optional ; it be a duty . with that in mind , I thank the shadow Minister for his contribution , and I particularly thank the Minister . I know that he have a deep interest in these issue , as I have have discussion with he on a number of occasion . we have be in a number of debate together , and I have notice his passion . I thank every right hon . and hon . member who have take the time to contribute to the debate . the commitment to human right , and to a world where all people can live without fear , be commendable . finally , I echo the sentiment that we must never be silent in the face of such grave injustice . our duty be clear and the time to act be now . I look forward to work with every Member of this House to try to make thing well , and I wish the Minister well in his job . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House note report of deteriorate religious freedom in Pakistan ; express its concern over the alleged widespread force conversion and human right abuse of minority religious group ; deplore the lack of action by the pakistani government , which represent a serious violation of Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights ; and further note that the arrest of opposition religious leader by the local authority have lead to condemnation both in Pakistan and far afield . petition - no . 84 / 85 bus service in South Gloucestershire this cross - boundary service enable people in Wotton - under - Edge who do not have a vehicle to travel south to Yate and on to Bristol . the service also allow people in south Gloucestershire to attend their doctor and school , so it be really miss . I commend the effort of Barbara Lawrence , a local resident of Wotton - under - Edge , who have be instrumental in try to secure the return of this bus service . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Gloucestershire , declare that the no . 84 and 85 Yate & Wotton - under - edge Circular bus service should be re - instate . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the need of rural area when allocate funding for bus service , and to take step to encourage the re - instatement of the no . 84 and 85 Yate & Wotton - under - edge Circular bus service in South Gloucestershire . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003022 ] petition - pimp website and pay for sex on the third day of the UN ' s 16 day of activism against gender - base violence , I rise to present a petition on behalf of my Washington and Gateshead South constituent on commercial sexual exploitation . the trafficking and exploitation of woman be actively facilitate by pimp website that advertise these woman , free for anyone to view . the sex trade have never be more accessible or more centralised than it be now . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Washington and Gateshead South , declare that demand from the minority of man who pay for sex be drive the prostitution and sex trafficking trade , and this sexual exploitation be be facilitate by pimp website that operate with impunity . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to outlaw pimp website and pay for sex , and provide support , not sanction , to victim of sexual exploitation . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ P003023 ] Cross - Boundary Housing Developments Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , as I be a serve councillor in Leicestershire . I be grateful for this opportunity to raise the challenge pose by cross - boundary planning application , and I thank Barrie Gannon , a Markfield parish councillor who have campaign for change in this area . my constituency be unique in many way , but most pertinently to this debate , it be unique because it straddle three council boundary : Blaby district council , Charnwood borough council , and Hinckley and Bosworth borough council . generally , these council work constructively alongside each other and with Leicestershire county council . however , one area of tension surround development , collaboration on local plan , and housing allocation within each council area . it be clear to I , and to many of my constituent , that some of the council be purposefully grant application on the edge of their boundary , which have a disproportionate impact on the neighbouring council . in essence , they be take all of the benefit but none of the negative . I have secure the debate not because I be a nimby , but because I want to see a more collaborative approach from local planning authority . as a Conservative MP , I fully support the notion of a property - own democracy , particularly for those from the next generation , who find it increasingly difficult to get on the property ladder . however , the free - for - all approach offer by the current system be harm many of the beautiful village in my Mid Leicestershire constituency . how can it be fair that borough , district and parish council be able to democratically pass local plan , but adjacent borough can undermine they by allow development on the edge of their boundary ? I have see many such example in Mid Leicestershire . in Markfield , the challenge pose by cross - boundary planning application have be raise with I many time by Councillors Claire Harris and Deborah Taylor , and local activist Dave Hyde , who lobby I regularly on the frustration of cross - boundary anomaly . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure the debate . one of the issue that clearly arise from what he refer to be the impact of development on GPs , education , road and leisure infra - structure in adjoining constituency or council area . house may be build in one area but people in other area will be affect . do he agree with many hon . member that there need to be a co - ordinate plan , perhaps at a high level , that bring future proposal together , so that when house be build in one area , associated infrastructure be spread across all affected area ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . I will go on to address some of those point , particularly in relation to the use of infrastructure . Markfield village sit in the local planning area of Hinckley and Bosworth borough council , but under the current framework , Markfield parish council and Hinckley and Bosworth borough council have very little say or influence over such decision , as they be make in the adjacent Charnwood borough . it be obvious that the new Markfield resident will use service in Hinckley and Bosworth , Markfield and the surround area , but those area will see very little benefit , because those benefit will go to other village . bad of all , such development be go ahead without constructive or bind input from the local parish council or the adjacent borough council . another example be in Glenfield village , in my constituency , which sit in Blaby district council , adjacent to Leicester city council . Steve Walters , who head a local action group , have raise the issue that the city council plan to build several hundred home on the edge of Glenfield village , but because the village do not sit within the city council boundary , it will see all the detriment of that development but have very little input in the decision - make process . indeed , Steve have campaign many time against the urban sprawl of the city affect village such as Glenfield . he be work constructively with I and local councillor to try to get progress on the issue . in my constituency of Horsham , we be almost entirely surround by other area that , for one reason or another , have constrain housing target — they have area of outstanding natural beauty , be in national park or be already build up . as a result , under the duty to co - operate , Horsham have to take a very unfair proportion of housing to serve the whole area . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the duty to co - operate system need to be revise to stop freak result happen in constituency such as mine ? I absolutely agree with the hon . gentleman . he give an example in his constituency , but I have see the same in Leicestershire and , from speak to other hon . member , I know there be similar example in other constituency . so where be we head ? we have a Government that be steadfast in their plan to concrete over our green and pleasant land , especially in rural constituency such as mine . in July , the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government say that she believe the national planning policy framework " offer extra stability to local authority . " be that really the case ? the Government ' s approach be to alleviate the pressure on housing in UK city and force additional housing on rural area , without provide sufficient support to the community that will impact . that be see by the Government ' s plan to reduce housing target for city by an incredible 35 % in the NPPF . in the village of ratby in my constituency , predatory developer such as Lagan Homes be take advantage of the current situation , forge ahead with proposal to bulldoze over the Burroughs , despite a staggering 900 household in that village write to the borough council to oppose that ecological vandalism . I be sure Leicester city council be jump for joy at the news that it would have to build 31 % few home by 2030 , but that mean rural area such as mine and my resident ' would have to see additional housing , as it be push far and far out . in truth , the reduction be why the decision to build house on the edge of Glenfield leave such a sour taste in the mouth of local resident , particularly in Glenfield and Blaby district . what do it look like in context ? the city council have be ask to produce few house , whereas rural area , such as Blaby and Hinckley and Bosworth , have be ask to dramatically increase their target , by 69 % and 59 % , respectively . unfortunately , the planning reform do not really take into account the cross - boundary implication , so what should we do instead ? the Government should foster a co - operative relationship from the top down . our local authority should be encourage to work alongside one another to prevent situation such as those I have describe . that can be do by allow adjacent borough and district council to have a say in housing development policy through their various local plan , particularly where that will have an impact on the neighbouring authority . there should also be an ability for resident in adjacent borough to view and comment on plan in other local planning authority area . furthermore , the increase arbitrary housing target for each borough council area simply do not take into consideration the impact of the adjacent target . there be surely a well method for develop sustainable housing county - wide , rather than local authority park house next to their own front lawn . finally , and probably most importantly , under the current regime there be no requirement for financial compensation for local authority that be adversely impact . no thought be give to that . section 106 agreement and community infrastructure levy contribution be pay by developer to local authority to mitigate the impact of specific development . they be well - intend negotiate agreement that force developer to give something back to the community , whether that be fund for infrastructure , improvement or green space . however , they fall short in cross - boundary consideration , as we have see in the example I have give from Markfield and Glenfield . Charnwood borough council have make it explicitly clear that the section 106 money for the development along the boundary of Hinckley and Bosworth would go to its own borough . how can spend all those allocation for a development on the edge of Markfield , to the benefit of Loughborough and Barrow , be in the interest of Markfield resident , who sit in a different borough ? that undermine local buy - in to the planning process . instead , there should be a more practical approach whereby section 106 agreement go to the authority where the service be actually be use . another anomaly of cross - boundary development be the distribution of council tax precept , with the new resident in Markfield , for example , pay into Charnwood borough council rather than their own . I be not a nimby . I call this debate to raise the issue pose by cross - boundary planning application . I believe there should be a collaborative , holistic approach , as mention by other hon . member . I encourage the Government to listen to the debate and consider bring about the change and proposal that I have outline . I start by congratulate the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) on secure this debate on an important but often overlook issue . have know he for many year before we take up our new role , I can say with authority that his constituent will be well serve in this House , particularly because they , like mine , be represent here by one of their local councillor . I too want to draw attention to the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , which include my ongoing unpaid role as a district councillor for my home village of Norton Canes . as councillor , we know that cross - border development can cause various complication , which I be sure be seldom consider when development be bring forward . we all know that council boundary do not always reflect local community , and that be inevitable to some extent , with boundary go down the middle of main road , for example . it be not particularly logical or necessary , however , to have housing estate or even individual home divide between different council area . I be a bit of a local government nerd , so I could give many example from close to where I live and across my region , but I will spare the House that and focus on my constituency . on the north - east edge of Cannock Chase , we have a small estate nonsensically split between Brereton and Ravenhill , in my constituency , and armitage with Handsacre in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) . this be reflect in council boundary as well , so there be clearly an impact on our local service . however , a far big cross - border development be fast approach in the form of the redevelopment of the huge former Rugeley power station site . when it be a 1 , 000 MW power station , nobody particularly know or minded where the boundary be . my predecessor and the former Member for Lichfield would often joke about which of the cool tower be in each of their patch . but once 2 , 300 home , around 900 of which will be in Cannock Chase , have be build , this could become a major issue . Rugeley already have several development on its fringe , which be outside our boundary , include the Hawkesyard estate and Hathorn Grove . the vast majority of those new resident feel that they live in Rugeley and go into Rugeley for various service , yet their low - tier local authority council tax go to Lichfield district council . this mean that any service that draw on district council resource be strain by an inconsistent council tax base . the same be true of parish and town council service . this be not just about service that resident go out to use , but about the service that come to they at home — bin collection , for example . we also know that nhs commissioning decision , for example on special educational need and disability provision , be sometimes do on a district by district basis . the chronic lack of general practice capacity in Rugeley and Brereton will be a major issue for the new power station development unless our integrate care board act quickly . there can sometimes be a democratic deficit , as resident in those cross - border development be split between different council area and different parliamentary constituency . know who to contact about various local issue can be challenge enough as it be , without estate be bisect by boundary that make no sense . sometimes , those boundary be tidy up through ward or constituency boundary review , but we know that the process of change council boundary can happen only at the request of both council . clearly there be no incentive for the council that benefit from council tax payer who do not tend to use its service to consent to a principal area boundary review . as the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire say , those council have all the benefit and none of the drawback . that process can also be cumbersome , so it rarely happen , even when a small move in a boundary would be the logical thing to do . give that our constituency boundary be often base on council boundary , such discrepancy be often not correct for Westminster election either . I do not come here with any oven - ready solution , although it do strike I that in other country — Canada for example — local authority can , with appropriate oversight , annex territory from other to prevent these cross - border challenge and inefficiency from arise . I hope that the Government will consider how we can well address these challenge . any solution that we can come to will certainly greatly benefit community identity and local service . have not have the chance to do so personally , may I begin by welcome the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) to his place ? I think it be fair to say that the important issue of cross - boundary planning co - operation have receive far too little attention in this place over recent year , and I therefore very much welcome the hon . Gentleman give the House an opportunity to consider it in some detail . I also appreciate the clarity with which he set out his position on the matter . he will know that the eight Leicestershire authority be at different stage of plan preparation , have delay due to further work address Leicester city ' s unmet need . owe to the Secretary of State ' s quasi - judicial role in the planning system , I be unable to comment on the detail of specific local plan or specific local application , but the point that the hon . Gentleman have make be on the record and I would expect he to make written representation to the Department in the appropriate way on some of the specific concern that he have raise . as the hon . Gentleman know , the nine local authority in Leicester and Leicestershire voluntarily come together to collaborate on the publication of a non - statutory strategic growth plan in 2018 . that plan provide a high - level vision for the sub - region up to 2050 , set out its housing and economic development need , and focus growth on key strategic area . key to secure cross - party political support for voluntary collaboration along those line have be the commendable desire to address the negative impact of ad hoc , speculative development and to stimulate infrastructure investment to support growth . but equally vital have be a shared understanding of the obvious functional geography of a sub - region with a city at its heart , strong pre - exist relationship at member and officer level , and clear governance structure that be independent of any one authority . while the partnership arrangement in Leicestershire take a not insignificant amount of time to establish , and to the good of my understanding nearly collapse several time , they aptly demonstrate that local planning authority can , and already do , work together informally to deal with cross - boundary and cumulative matter . notwithstanding the concern that the hon . Gentleman raise , Leicestershire be a rare example of relatively successful cross - boundary co - operation in a planning system whose incentive structure be not gear towards facilitate it . the Government have inherit a planning system in which , outside London , some metro mayor have spatial planning power while other have only the power to prepare non - statutory plan . a lack of effective lever , whether that be governance arrangement that require unanimity or an inability to set the strategic direction for where new affordable housing should be deliver , prevent mayor who do have spatial planning power from realise the full potential of those power . in the rest of the country there be a duty to co - operate , as the hon . member for Horsham ( John Milne ) mention . the requirement provide a minimum standard for cross - border strategic planning , but by common consensus have not prove to an effective mechanism for foster the kind of deep strategic co - operation that enable area to meet their cross - border challenge and unmet local need to be share with adjacent authority . the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 include provision that enable local authority to come together to produce joint spatial development strategy , but as that be entirely discretionary and the current incentive be weak , there be no evidence that score of area eagerly await the opportunity to take that particular approach . the result be a planning system that currently lack any effective mechanism for cross - boundary strategic planning . that have not always be the case . indeed , plan for housing growth and infrastructure at a large than local scale have be integral to the functioning of England ' s planning system for most of the past half - century , whether through county structure plan , regional planning guidance or the comprehensive system of regional strategic planning introduce by the last Labour Government , include regional spatial strategy . the period since that architecture be abolish by the coalition Government in 2011 have be something of an aberration , with the duty to co - operate ostensibly facilitate necessary strategic cross - boundary planning , but in practice fail to do so in any meaningful way . the result have be large part of England where no strategic planning activity take place , a number of notable local plan failure , increase delay in local plan production , grow public antagonism towards the planning system , and a yawn gap between the amount of development that the country need and what be actually be build . the Government be commit to bring that sub - optimal situation to an end by first , in the short term , strengthen the exist national planning policy framework requirement on effective co - operation , and then introduce effective new mechanism for cross - boundary strategic planning through legislation , with a view to implement a universal system of strategic planning in this Parliament . let I make it clear that we do not intend to return to the pre - 2011 regional planning regime ; rather , we will look at how we can ensure that effective cross - boundary co - operation — the kind that I take it the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire want to see in his constituency — be take place at a sub - regional level . while it be still too early to be definitive about the precise model , the Government be attract to the spatial development strategy , which be well establish in London , with the London plan have be produce and continually review over a 20 - year period by successive London Mayors . whatever model be ultimately select , it be important to note that strategic plan be not big local plan . nor should the forthcoming introduction of statutory strategic planning arrangement be take by local planning authority as a reason not to progress the development of their local plan . local plan be the good way for community to shape future development in their area . the Government be determined to progress toward our ambition of universal local plan coverage , and we intend to drive local plan to adoption as quickly as possible . in all area , strategic sub - regional plan will guide development for the local planning authority in the area , and local plan will need to be in general conformity with they . we will expect local plan to be update or develop alongside the strategic planning process , and we envisage that that process be where those large than local level question and negotiation about large - scale housing growth will be determine . give that the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency span three local authority , I know he will take an active interest in the Government ' s plan . local authority in Leicester and Leicestershire have show what can be achieve through the voluntary production of a non - statutory strategic growth plan . I note that they have be work effectively on their local plan , include various local authority meet unmet need from Leicester city . however , the experience of the partnership arrangement be in place in the county also highlight the risk and limitation of voluntarism . I hope the intention to require statutory strategic planning arrangement to be put in place across England will be welcome by the authority that lie within the boundary of Mid Leicestershire as a means of more quickly and effectively resolve cross - boundary and cumulative issue of the kind the hon . Gentleman have draw attention to . on that note , I look forward to further discussion with he and other hon . member as the Government take forward their plan in this area . question put and agree to . House adjourn .