Oral Answers to Questions Treasury the Chancellor of the Exchequer be ask — Agricultural and Business Property Relief : impact on Farmers what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her policy of the report by CenTax entitle , " the Impact of Changes to Inheritance Tax on Farm Estates " publish on 14 August 2025 . if she will hold discussion with farming representative on the potential impact of change to agricultural property relief and business property relief on farmer . if she will hold discussion with farming representative on the potential impact of change to agricultural property relief and business property relief on farmer . minister from Government Departments have meet organisation include the National Farmers ' Union , the Tenant Farmers Association , the Country Land and Business Association , the Central Association of Agricultural Valuers , the Ulster Farmers ' Union , and the NFU in Scotland and Wales . I also meet farmer in the north - east of England only last month . after listen and consider the independent Centre for the Analysis of Taxation report , the Government believe that the approach we have set out be an appropriate one . I be proud to support a government who believe in progressive taxation , as I be sure the Minister do — that those with the broad shoulder should bear the great burden . under the CenTax minimum share rule proposal , farm estate where at least 60 % of the estate be use for farming would receive relief of up to £ 5 million per person . this would reduce the risk of family farm be break up , place a great burden on very large estate and those game the system , and double the forecast tax take . will the Minister direct Treasury official to take another look at the CenTax proposal on APR prior to the Budget ? I thank my hon . friend for his question — he be a strong advocate in this place for his constituency and for farming community . just last week , he make the point to I that our farmer and farming community be crucial to economic and social and cultural life . along with other Labour colleague from rural constituency , he have be work hard to raise the point that matter to farmer , and this Government be do all we can to support our farming industry . on the specific point about CenTax ' s proposal on minimum share , I do not need to direct official to look at they , because I have read the proposal . it be worth note that the number of loser from the propose policy would be more than double the number of people affect by the change that this Government be make . over 1 , 000 estate would be affect by the proposal put forward by CenTax . a liberal Democrat freedom of information request reveal that the Treasury recently have plan to review the family farm tax . farmer across the country be feed up with bickering and infighting from a Government who just do not understand they , but there be still time to act and end month of confusion and misery . will the Chancellor and her Ministers meet farmer from Glastonbury and Somerton , and I , to provide some clarity and reveal the full extent of the Government ' s discussion on revoke this damage family farm tax ? just a few week ago , I meet farmer to discuss this and other important issue . the Government believe that even though this tax be a difficult change — I do not shy away from that fact — it be the right change to make , because it be a method of raise revenue in a fair way that help contribute to restore the public finance . I kindly ask the Chancellor to please respond to my joint letter on Cornwall ' s future funding , send last week , which ask she to meet all Cornish mp without delay . alternative proposal to this damaging family farm tax — such as a clawback scheme , as propose by the NFU , or increase the threshold to £ 5 million — would raise more in revenue than the Government ' s current plan . in contrast to her speech this morning , the Chancellor now have the opportunity to do both the right thing and the popular thing . the mental health toll on farmer be become completely unsustainable , so please , Chancellor , rethink this damaging policy . I would be happy to meet the hon . Member and Members from across Cornwall to discuss the issue raise in the letter to the Chancellor . as the Minister have just highlight , the main argument against the CenTax proposal for APR now seem to be a fear that more people will be subject to inheritance tax under those proposal , even though most of those extra people be essentially private homeowner with agricultural field . do he agree that labour value call for support hard - work farmer , who be the backbone of this country , over millionaire homeowner who have money in their wide estate to pay the inheritance tax ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , and for her time last week — it be good to meet she to talk about important issue affect farmer and rural community . on balance , the Government believe that the policy position that be set out at last year ' s Budget be the right one , and we will be continue with it . I call the shadow Minister . this morning the Chancellor fail to take responsibility for her poor choice in a budget that whack up taxis , borrowing and spending , and make it clear that she would once again break her promise on tax . the farmer whom I have meet have be in tear about the family farm tax , not because they be worried about lose their job but because the Chancellor be put generation of farming at risk . can the Minister tell the House whether the Chancellor have actually meet any farmer , the NFU or other farming organisation to understand the impact of her policy and why she should scrap the family farm tax ? the Government have assess the impact of this policy . accord to the estimate that we issue at the time of last year ' s Budget , about 500 farm would pay additional tax as a result of the change ; those number be contest by all Opposition Members , but the CenTax report — which the hon . Member have say that he and other be interested in read — back they up and confirm the Government ' s estimate . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . on Friday I sit with farmer and their family in Brecon and Radnor , and they be desperate . if they be 65 or over , they have no time to plan for the family farm tax , they can not get insurance , and they will be put in an impossible position if the Government go ahead with the tax unamended . the CenTax report set out option that could extend extra protection for family farm while rightly raise fund from people who be currently exploit the tax loophole in APR . those farmer ask I to put a question to the Chancellor . they ask , " can the Chancellor please say precisely which part of the CenTax report the Government disagree with , and why ? " I have already answer the question about the CenTax proposal , but it be clear from its analysis that the number of estate that would pay more inheritance tax would be more than double the number contain in the proposal that the Government have put on the table . I understand that change in inheritance tax be always difficult , but last year the Government have to make the decision to raise more revenue to ensure that we could fund our public service adequately , and this change raise half a billion pound in a fair way . Banking Services : Rural Areas what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of access to banking service in rural area . the Government understand the importance of in - person banking to community , and we be work closely with industry to roll out 350 banking hub across the United Kingdom . More than 240 hub have be announce so far , and more than 180 be already open . I know that that include two in the hon . member ' s constituency , and I look forward to our upcoming meeting to discuss her constituent ' banking need . when Labour be in opposition , its shadow Economic Secretary , the hon . member for Hampstead and Highgate ( Tulip Siddiq ) , welcome measure to protect access to cash , but be concern about the fact that they do " nothing to protect essential face - to - face banking service . " — [ Official Report , 26 June 2023 ; Vol . 735 , c . 71 . ] such service go beyond a banking hub , but they be now vanish . while the Financial Conduct Authority be responsible for access to cash , it appear that there be no Government body oversee access to face - to - face banking service . do the Minister agree that new regulation be need to support resident and business in rural area , especially as bank will prevent customer from cash cheque in post office from January ? we recognise the important role that post office , in particular , play in provide essential banking service as well as banking hub . decision about which service be available at post office — such as cheque deposit — be make by bank as part of their commercial arrangement . I should emphasise that customer continue to have other option for pay in cheque , which I know be an issue for the hon . member ; in the case of Lloyds , it can be do via freepost . as I have say , I look forward to discuss these issue far with the hon . member during our meeting . one way of improve access to banking in rural and , indeed , urban area would be to increase the reach and role of community bank , or community development finance institution . give that cdfi play a big role in american economic life and be back to do so by the big bank , would it not be good if our big bank help to fund their expansion here as well ? my hon . friend be well verse in all these area , and have do considerable work in this regard . as I have say , the bank play a role in provide access to cash , for instance via post office banking service . I call the shadow Minister . in this month of blame everyone else for every woe that befall the government and use it as an excuse to bust manifesto pledge leave , right and centre , it seem that the Government be claim credit for more banking hub , but we all know that the rolling out of banking hub be a purely commercial decision by the bank . it be the bank that be choose to do this , to serve their customer . be it now the Government ' s policy to blame everyone else for their own incompetence , and to claim credit for everyone else ' s good idea ? where it be appropriate to do so — indeed , it be very often appropriate to do so — we will blame the conservative party for the state of the country , and it be appropriate to do so here . on the criterion that Link use for banking hub , I will remind the hon . Gentleman that , in relation to the access to cash regime , that be design and pass by the previous Government . economic growth : Congleton what step she be take to help increase economic growth in Congleton constituency . I thank my hon . friend for her question . she be a proud supporter of everything in the Congleton constituency . this Government be commit to regional growth , with growth in all part of the United Kingdom . that be why the Treasury have reform the Green Book , look at the value for money of different project . it be also why , in Cheshire East , where my hon . friend ' s constituency be , we have put £ 47 million into local transport grant funding . I thank the Chancellor for her answer . in my constituency , Dane Valley Community Energy , a marvellous group of volunteer , have raise hundred of thousand of pound for solar panel on school and other local building , include Daneside theatre and Havannah primary school . unfortunately , recent Government guidance have suspend application in respect of solar panel for school . will the Chancellor look at that guidance and work with Ministers in other Departments to review that outcome ? I thank my hon . friend for draw this issue to my attention . I agree that community project such as solar panel be a fantastic opportunity to get down bill for school so that they have more money to spend on teacher and on book . on my hon . friend ' s specific question about solar installation , there be a temporary pause in application , but I be happy to confirm that the Department for Education have resume approval for solar panel on school site . I would urge my hon . friend to encourage the school in her constituency to apply for the new project in the normal way . Regional Economic Growth : Pension fund what step she be take with pension provider to help increase regional economic growth . at the heart of this Government ' s pension reform be the goal of big and well pension scheme . we be legislate for that in the Pension Schemes Bill by require all local government pension scheme asset to be pool next year , and multi - employer define contribution scheme to have at least £ 25 billion - worth of asset . this reform agenda will deliver return for saver and ensure that scheme have the scale require to invest in productive asset across the country . many of my constituent have asset in the West Yorkshire Pension Fund , which manage more than £ 19 million . I be concern , however , that some of the fund ' s investment be concentrate in sector that cause harm , such as the fossil fuel industry . do the Minister agree that the West Yorkshire Pension Fund could invest in socially valuable activity , such as the regeneration of the town centre in Shipley and social home ? the LGPS actually have a strong track record of local investment of exactly the kind that my hon . friend mention , include in social housing , and we want to build on that record . the Pension Schemes Bill will introduce requirement for local government pension scheme pool to work with strategic authority , include mayoral strategic authority , on local investment opportunity — [ interruption . ] before they decide that full - time chuntering be their business of the day , I think the Conservatives use to be in favour of that . with the high sustained level of public investment since the 1970 , Britain will get back in the business of invest in its future once again . pension provider play a key role in help Britain ' s tech start - up turn into world - lead scale - up , but around £ 3 trillion in pension fund sit idle . that money should be use to support our tech sector . will the Minister commit to accelerate the Mansion House reform successfully introduce by the last Conservative Government ? I thank the hon . member for his question . I agree with where he start , but unfortunately he then go on to praise some of the work do under the last government , when we do not see the investment that he talk about come through and reach entrepreneur , who he rightly say we should do more to support . that be what the Mansion House Accord , which we have now put in place and support for the private sector , be do , and what the British Business Bank be do by bring forward the British Growth Partnership . we need to see UK pension fund invest in our most innovative , fast - grow company . the establishment of the Sterling 20 send a strong signal that this country be serious about mobilise more of its own domestic capital into productive domestic asset . as the Oxford - Cambridge growth corridor ' s anchor , my Buckingham and Bletchley constituency be prime to offer high - quality investment opportunity . can the Minister set out more detail about how he be work with local authority , such as the labour - run Milton Keynes city council , to ensure that we provide that pipeline , and will he meet I to discuss how we can take it far ? my hon . friend be always a powerful advocate , both for the fast - grow company in his constituency and for the right pension policy for the UK as a whole , as we see when he sit on the Pension Schemes Public Bill Committee . sterling 20 be a new , investor - lead partnership between the UK ' s 20 large pension fund and insurer . it be establish at the regional investment summit in Birmingham on 21 October , and we be work closely with the partnership to deliver exactly the kind of investment that my hon . friend talk about . pension scheme trustee have an obligation to make decision that they believe be in the good interest of saver , which be otherwise know as their fiduciary duty . the reserve power in the Pension Schemes Bill could force investment in Government vanity project , which be contrary to that duty . do the Minister agree with I and much of the pension industry that mandation be a massive state overreach and be gamble with the future of those save for retirement ? no , not at all . I call the shadow Minister . mobilise more investment from the UK pension fund market be critical to drive regional economic growth . the Chancellor say that she be a builder , not a blocker , but her propose builder tax threaten to drastically increase the cost of build anything from home and road to nuclear power station . this will make investing in UK infrastructure increasingly unviable . to avoid even more investment - kill uncertainty , will the Minister agree to scrap labour ' s propose landfill tax reform and let Britain get back to building ? I can reassure the hon . member that we be scrap the attitude of the conservative party , which block any building from happen anywhere in this country year after year . house be block . railway be block . anything that involve any difficult choice be block by a party that give up govern long before the general election . HMRC Customer Service what step she be take to improve customer service by HMRC . HMRC be commit to improve day - to - day performance and the customer experience . call wait time in the first quarter of this year be half as long as in the same period last year , which be good news for customer . at the 2025 spending review , the Government allocate £ 500 million to make HMRC a digital - first organisation , and that transformation be well under way . I welcome the Government ' s £ 20 million investment in relocate and upgrade Telford ' s HMRC office , with 1 , 000 member of staff work hard to deliver the good service possible . will the Minister meet I and Telford and Wrekin council to discuss how the new HMRC campus can be at the forefront of improve the customer experience , include by harness the potential of AI and tech , as well as partner with the start - up sector ? my hon . friend be a very strong advocate for Telford , both for job in the private sector and for those in the public sector that we be able to support in his community . I be glad to hear that he , like I , be proud of HMRC ' s Telford campus and want to see it play a key role in improve customer experience through innovation , AI and digital technology . I will be very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss those issue . the Chancellor have justify her lack of a licence for rent out her house as an " inadvertent error " , but HMRC be never prepared to accept that people make inadvertent error . will this now change , or do the Chancellor expect to be treat differently from everyone else who make an inadvertent error ? I be not sure that the matter that the right hon . Member just raise have much to do with HMRC . I call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . the Treasury Committee look at HMRC ' s customer service . we have recently see people have their child benefit stop , ostensibly on the basis of travel datum . could the Minister explain what he be do to resolve this issue and what datum HMRC base its information on ? I thank my hon . friend for her service on the Treasury Committee ; she be do a sterling job as its Chair . this be a really important issue . last year HMRC undertake a pilot to try to find a way to reduce fraud in the child benefit system . that measure be expect to save £ 350 million over the next five year , and we have already manage to prevent £ 17 million in wrongful payment , but my hon . friend be right to say that a very small number of claimant have their child benefit incorrectly remove . I be really sorry that that happen . HMRC be write to those who have be affect and ensure that people who should get their child benefit payment do receive they . my constituent Hollie from Wimborne apply for a self - assessment refund of just £ 300 in April . when she chase it in June , she be tell it have go to a specialist tax team , with no reason and no time frame give . she complain in August , but it be now November , and she have hear nothing . while she may be owe only £ 300 , this be happen around the country . can the Minister tell I whether he think seven month be a reasonable time within which to receive a basic refund , and what the Department be do to speed thing up ? I thank the hon . member for raise her constituent ' s issue , and I would be happy for she to write to the Department about it . even though it be not appropriate for I to get involve in an individual taxpayer ' s affair , I hope the Department can improve on that service . we have improve the response rate for both people make phone call and people get in touch via the post , but of course there be always more we can do . Employer National Insurance Contributions : Business Impact what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the increase in employer national insurance contribution on business . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the increase in employer national insurance contribution on level of employment . what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the increase in employer national insurance contribution on business . the previous Government leave a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance , and in the Budget last year I have to take urgent action to ensure our public finance be on a firm footing and to properly fund our public service , include a £ 29 billion investment every year in our national health service . the opposition can not support more investment in our public service unless they support the tax change to pay for it . I be not convince that that answer go anywhere near my question . family business be the lifeblood of community and constituency such as mine . last week , I meet Family Business UK to discuss how the Government ' s national insurance hike and restriction to business property relief be force business to pause investment , think twice about take on more staff and , in some case , even to close their door . ahead of the Budget , will the Chancellor meet I and representative from family business to seek way in which the Government will work with , not against , these really key business ? I thank the right hon . Lady for that question , and 43 % of employer — almost 1 million — will pay no employer national insurance this year . that be an increase because of the change we make to the employment allowance . over half of employer with NIC liability will see no change , or will gain overall , and business can employ young people — those age under 21 and apprentice under 25 — without nic . however , the Conservatives must decide whether they will stick with this change to national insurance . if they be not go to , they will have to admit that they will not be able to put the money into the national health service . accord to the British Retail Consortium , the Chancellor ' s last Budget cause a £ 7 billion cost to retail , lead to shop closure , decline high street and job loss . if the Chancellor will not acknowledge the damage she have cause , how will she go about rectify it ? can I recommend that she start with the 100 % business rate relief put forward by the shadow Chancellor ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question . in his own constituency in the Isle of Wight , the six - monthly waiting list figure show that 5 % few people be wait for 18 week or long . that be only possible because of the money we put into the NHS because of the tax change we make . on retail sale and the impact on shop , retail sale have increase for the last four month in a row , with the most recent number for August and September outpace expectation . it be always blindingly obvious that increase employer national insurance would lead to an increase in business cost , which would lead to high price hit work people directly , and to rise in inflation . sure enough , inflation have rise steadily under this government , and it be now at almost twice its recommend level . at the last Budget , we be tell it be necessary to raise taxis on business by £ 25 billion to pay for the NHS , and large amount of money have indeed be pay to unionised worker , but just yesterday the Office for National Statistics announce that NHS productivity have fall by 1 . 5 % since Labour take office . can the Chancellor explain what exactly my Orpington business be pay more tax for ? in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , the number of people wait more than 18 week for an appointment have also fall . that be exactly what that money be be use for . he need to be clear , and so do those on the Opposition Front Bench : if they want to reverse the increase to national insurance , they must also accept that there will be less money for our national health service . that be a choice , and it would be interesting to hear whether it be the Opposition ' s choice . on 6 December , Small Business Saturday will have we all out in our constituency support small business . follow the announcement this morning about the need to enhance productivity , what measure will the Treasury be introduce to assist small business in the current tough climate ? my hon . friend be a strong champion for people in Hornsey and Wood Green , include small business . last year at the Budget , we set out the principle in the consultation on business rate reform . our principle be to make it easy for small business and high street business , while make sure that the online retail giant pay their fair share of tax . we will be set out more information on our reform business rate system to help our high street and help our small business on 26 November . the conservative party give we austerity , Brexit and Liz Truss , include high interest rate and high inflation . this government , so far , have deliver the high growth in the G7 , five interest rate cut and record high level of investment . be it not the truth that the conservative party , over 14 year , be the reason business be struggle ? order . this be just a rant , with nothing relevant to the question . opposition member spend a lot of time complain about the difficult decision take by this Labour Government , so I wonder whether the Chancellor can remind they what we have be able to do for public service and infrastructure as a result of this Government ' s revenue - raise policy . that be exactly the case . the tax change we make at the Budget last year enable we to put £ 29 billion extra a year into the NHS , but also to roll out free school meal and free breakfast club for young people . that be the difference this government be make . on capital spending , because of the change I make to our fiscal rule , we be able to invest £ 120 billion more on our energy security , our digital infrastructure and new home through our industrial strategy . that be the difference that this Labour Government be make . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . analysis by ukhospitality suggest that more than half the job loss in the UK since last year ' s Budget have come from its sector . that be further evidence that the job tax have be bad for growth and bad for job opportunity . we Liberal Democrats have set out fairer way of raise revenue and go for growth , so rather than the Government suggest that we have not do so , can I instead ask they : will they use the Budget to consult on a new low national insurance contribution band to create opportunity for part - time worker , especially in hospitality ? we increase the employment allowance at the Budget last year . that is , rightly , agnostic between part - time and full - time worker . that be why 865 , 000 business will not be pay national insurance at all this year — an increase to help our small business . employment be up 358 , 000 so far this year ; that be very different from the picture that the hon . Lady just try to set out . Scotch Whisky Industry what fiscal step she be take to help support the Scotch whisky industry . the Government value our world - lead distilling industry and recognise that the spirit sector have find recent economic condition challenge because of both tariff uncertainty and high energy cost . the Scotch industry be set to be among the big beneficiary from the landmark trade deal that this government secure with India , which be set to reduce tariff from 150 % to 75 % initially , and then to 40 % over time . Scotch whisky be one of Scotland ' s great product , with high demand at home and across the globe , but many be worried about the challenge face the industry . the Scotch Whisky Association be call for a multi - year freeze on excise duty for spirit to relieve some of those pressure and to back the wide hospitality sector . will the Minister join I , GMB Scotland and other by commit to freeze spirit duty in the Budget later this month ? my hon . friend be a strong advocate for the business and industry in her constituency and in the area nearby . as she be aware , the vast majority of Scotch be export , so it be not subject to UK excise taxis . nevertheless , the Government appreciate the importance of the domestic market to Scotch producer , and I do acknowledge the wide pressure face the industry . on her specific question , the Government ' s baseline assumption remain that alcohol duty will be increase with inflation each year to maintain their real - term value , which mean that any cut or freeze would come at a cost to the Exchequer . of course , as with all taxis , the Chancellor — not a junior Treasury Minister — will confirm her decision on alcohol duty as part of the Budget process in the normal way . the Scottish Secretary — a grown man who seem easy to upset — be very upset recently when the First Minister of Scotland have direct meeting with the President of the United States over whisky tariff . the SNP and the First Minister will always stand up for Scotch whisky . will the Chancellor follow suit , or will she continue in the Treasury ' s long - stand tradition of suckle off the enterprise of scottish business rather than support they ? her tax hike on Scotch whisky last year cost job and investment in Scotland . will she now stand up — order . sit down . I thank the hon . member for his question , and I remind he of the landmark trade deal that this government secure with India . he criticise the Government for not do enough , but we have secure a trade deal with India , the EU and the US . we be also reduce tariff to support industry and invest in Scotland with a record - break Budget to support job , investment and growth , and the public sector across the whole of Scotland . Business Rates : affordability for sme what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the affordability of business rate for small and medium - sized enterprise . More than 700 , 000 small business across the UK pay no business rate at all as they receive 100 % small business rate relief . we be transform business rate over this Parliament . we be cut bureaucracy , too — remove the need for the owner of small business such as family - run caf é s to submit page and page of director ’ report to Companies House . grassroots music venue be a vital part of the heart , soul and economy of Brighton Pavilion . Treasury Ministers have admit that fair business rate valuation method be not currently use for many of these business — my local venue be call the burden punitive and a threat to viability . will the Chancellor assure I that she will not forget grassroots music venue in her Budget ? we very much recognise the role that grassroots music venue play in constituency right across our country . in our reform , on which we will set out more detail at the Budget on 26 November , we will have permanently low business rate for retail , hospitality and leisure premise , with rateable value below £ 500 , 000 . despite represent only around 9 % of the UK ' s economic output , the retail and hospitality sector contribute around a third of all business rate pay . do the Minister agree that high street such as that in St Austell be public good , and will he ensure that independent small business such as those he have describe , which be central to our community and economy , be no long penalise by an arcane business rate system that undervalue their public contribution ? high street in St Austell and constituency right across the country need more support from the business rate system . that be why we be transform the system to ask large premise , include the warehouse use by online giant , to pay slightly more in order to cut permanently the business rate payable by small premise on high street across the country . I call the shadow Minister . when the Chancellor impose £ 40 billion of tax rise , she choose to double business rate for leisure , retail and hospital business — and she be go to come back for more . it may be in vain , but perhaps I can offer she a policy suggestion : scrap business rate for 250 , 000 shop , pub and restaurant . rather than hike taxis , will she adopt conservative policy and control welfare spending so that we can back our small business ? that question barely deserve a response . the business rate relief we inherit from the previous Government when we come into office be due to end entirely in April of this year . it be only because of we that it be extend for a year while we put in place permanently low multiplier for retail , leisure and hospitality business . those be business on high street right across our country , and that will be announce at the Budget on 26 November . Remote Betting and Gaming Duty : horserace what assessment she have make of the potential impact of implement a flat rate of remote bet and game duty on the horseracing industry . we consult on measure to simplify gambling duty and improve compliance . the response from the consultation have now be analyse , and a response will be set out at the autumn Budget . we recognise the social and cultural value of horseracing , which be why we be listen to the horserace sector as we consider our response to the consultation . in Doncaster we have historic link to the horseracing industry , and we know at first hand the economic value it bring to our community and the country . will the Minister agree to meet the British Horseracing Authority to discuss the potential impact on harmonisation and the impact that an increase in bet duty will have on the viability of racecourse , job and levy payment that support horserace and the wide sporting industry ? my hon . friend be a strong advocate for the horserace industry and the job and economic activity in her constituency . I be glad to meet she just last week to discuss the topic she raise . as part of the consultation , there have be engagement with the horseracing industry to identify any potential unintended consequence for the sector and consider how they might be mitigate . as I say , the Government will respond to the consultation at the Budget . in response to her question , yes , I will happily meet with the BHA . both Ascot and Royal Windsor racecourse be incredibly important to my constituency . I have visit both , and I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . on this issue , I urge the Minister to heed warning from across the House and , more importantly , the industry . I cautiously welcome the briefing to the Telegraph at the weekend . racing should be treat very differently from online casino and gaming . can he assure the House that tax on horse and greyhound race flutter will not increase ? decision on tax policy will be make at the Budget . income of Working Families : Newcastle what fiscal step she be take to help increase the income of work family in Newcastle . I thank my hon . friend for her question ; I know she be a tireless champion for work family in Newcastle . we know that for too long , people have feel that they be put too much in and not get enough back . that be why this Government have increase the national living wage by £ 1 , 400 this year for full - time worker , put more money directly into the pocket of around 3 million work people . the north east combined authority investment zone will benefit from £ 160 million of investment to deliver £ 2 billion in private sector investment and 4 , 000 job . under 14 year of Tory misrule , worker in the north - east see their average annual earning fall , cause a cost of live crisis for family across the region . we have fantastic , passionate and productive worker . will the Minister promise to continue to turn back on Tory failure by invest in the industry of the north - east to deliver high - wage , high - quality job as part of a Budget for work people ? my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the Conservatives ' record in office , and she be right that in her constituency there be fantastic , passionate and productive worker who need a government — which they now have — who will invest in good job and skill , and who will put worker ' right on a well footing than they be when we take over from the previous Government . at the Budget , the Chancellor will be lead by the Government ' s commitment to fairness , and she will be focus on protect our NHS , reduce the national debt and improve the cost of living . rise — order . this question be link to Newcastle , so we will go to the next question . Financial Inclusion Strategy what recent progress she have make on the development of a financial inclusion strategy . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her year of work to further financial inclusion both during her time here and prior to Parliament . this be a timely question , because tomorrow we will publish the Government ' s financial inclusion strategy , which set out an ambitious programme of measure to improve financial inclusion and resilience for community right across the UK . early this year , I chair a roundtable with the all - party parliamentary group on debt and financial inclusion that highlight our five key ask . nearly 70 % of adult in my constituency be consider to be in financially vulnerable circumstance — among the high proportion in the city . what step do the Minister plan to take to measure the impact of the financial inclusion strategy ? will she meet I to discuss that ? my hon . friend raise a really important point . as part of develop the strategy , the Government have engage with Financial Inclusion Committee member and other organisation on how to measure the impact of the strategy , and indeed to drive its delivery . the strategy ' s implementation will be review two year from publication against outcome - base metric to provide an update on progress . I will be more than happy to meet she to discuss this . when I be Economic Secretary , against the advice of official I advance something call the no interest loan scheme . I be give to believe that one of the Minister ' s two predecessor since the general election may have suspend that valuable attempt to support the most vulnerable in society . will she look at that again in advance of the Budget in three week ? there really be wide cross - party support for it . I be aware of the scheme that the right hon . member talk about . he will appreciate that I can not pre - empt the launch of the strategy tomorrow , nor indeed the Budget , but I would be more than happy to meet he to talk about it in more detail . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . may I first pay tribute to all those who respond to Saturday ' s horrendous attack : the quick - think driver , the emergency service , and the heroic LNER staff member Samir Zitouni who bravely save the life of passenger ? the Government be elect to break a cycle of decline . we have return the public finance to a firm footing , invest in Britain and begin to rebuild our economy . but time remain challenging : global uncertainty be dampen growth and increase the cost of borrowing ; while inflation remain too high and productivity too low . in the face of those challenge , my task be clear . at the Budget later this month , I will continue to build the strong foundation to secure Britain ' s future , protect our NHS , reduce our national debt and improve the cost of live for a fair , more prosperous Britain with an economy that work for everyone . I be proud that the Government have invest £ 250 million in put solar panel on school and hospital . in Stroud , we have a programme whereby , through community energy funding , we will put solar panel on every school in the area . I be go to ask the Chancellor about Treasury rule that be block that , but I hear from her answer to my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Sarah Russell ) that that may no long be the case . will she confirm that that block have be remove ? order . we be on topical , so I need speedy question . it be good to see my hon . friend and the engineering company Redler in Downing Street yesterday . on the issue about school , as I say in answer to my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Sarah Russell ) , the scheme be now reopen . I have not have a look at the school mention by my hon . friend the Member for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) . there may be some issue with maintain school , but we be look into that and be keen to work with he to ensure that school in his constituency — indeed , school in all hon . member ' constituency — can benefit from the scheme . I call the shadow Minister . what be the Chancellor ' s definition of " work people " ? a work person be somebody who go out every day to earn their income . they rely on price that be affordable in the shop , low interest rate and taxis that be as low as possible , but also public service that work for they , like the NHS , where waiting list have already come down by more than 200 , 000 . that be a very broad definition . maybe the Chancellor should speak to the Prime Minister , the Transport Secretary , the Education Secretary and the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster , who have all give different definition of work people over the last 12 month . after last year ' s Budget , the Chancellor say that she have wipe the slate clean , but that be not true , Chancellor , be it ? she say that she would not be come back with more taxis , but that be not true , Chancellor , be it ? at the election , the Chancellor say that she would not raise taxis on work people , but that be not true either , be it , Chancellor ? when will the Chancellor learn the truth that she be not a commentator on the country ' s economic problem ; she be the cause ? when we come into office last year , there be a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . the reserve that be set out for genuine emergency have already be spend four time over only three month into the financial year . that be the reality . we increase taxis in the Budget last year to stabilise the public finance and to put a much - need injection of cash into our public service , principally our national health service . since then , anyone can see the big challenge face the world , as well as the productivity that never materialise under the past Government . rise — order . please , I have a lot of member to get in and I be try to help everybody . Don ' t be tempt — that be the easy answer . I know that the Chancellor and her team be well aware that family , such as those in my constituency of Lewisham East , be struggle with homelessness and temporary accommodation . will she consider increase finance to local council so that they can well support constituent and improve their wellbeing and security ? at the spending review , we enable well investment in temporary accommodation stock and strengthen local authority ’ financial position . those change will support local authority to increase the supply of good - quality temporary accommodation and drive down day - to - day spend on such accommodation . in her speech this morning , the Chancellor say that she must make necessary choice ahead of the Budget . will those choice once again come at the expense of rural community such as West Dorset , or will she commit to review the funding model to ensure that rurality be a funding metric , alongside deprivation , so that rural community finally get the support they deserve ? at the spending review , as announce early this year by my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , we set out record investment into the farming and rural community right across this country . that be only possible because of the choice that we have make on taxation and to balance the public finance . will the Chancellor please update the House on progress make with the implementation of the Green Book review and that change , as a result , might well enable investment in small northern town such as those that make up Rossendale and Darwen ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for his campaigning work on this . at the spending review , I announce the change to the Green Book and particularly our work on place - base business case , look at how spending can cumulatively benefit an area . we be roll out the new Green Book with some test case . I be determined that we get investment that be long overdue into our northern town and city . in a new poll , FairFuelUK have find that three out of four road user who vote Labour want fuel duty to be keep frozen or reduce . will the Chancellor listen to the people who put she into Government and ensure that that regressive tax , which hit low - income family and economic growth the hard , be not increase ? the House will be aware that the 5p cut to fuel duty be set to expire in March 2026 , and as with other tax policy , the Chancellor will make a final decision on fuel duty rate at the Budget in the context of the public finance . my constituent be grateful for the Government ' s work to get our national health service back on track . our local Royal Stoke university hospital be do well but there be still much more to do . will the Chancellor assure I that our national health service will always remain free at the point of need under this Labour Government and confirm that the Government utterly reject an insurance - base system , as recommend by the Reform political party ? the NHS will remain free at the point of use for as long as there be a Labour Government . that be not something that reform be able to promise . as usual , Reform do one thing and say another . in Kent , the party say that it would find efficiency to keep down council tax , but it have not find a single one and that be why the 2 million people who live in Reform council area will get a council tax rise next year . with report that the Chancellor be eye up double council tax for band G and H , can she tell I whether she really consider the family who write to I yesterday — both have mid - range salary , be fully eligible for child benefit and buy a home for just shy of £ 500 , 000 in 2013 — rich enough to see their council tax double to £ 800 a month ? under the last government , time and again , council tax go up and up and the funding for local council go down and down . we have leave council on their knee , struggle when it come to special educational need , temporary accommodation and funding for homelessness and adult social care . this government will make the right decision when it come to fund our council and have a fair property taxation system . I refer the House to my membership of Unite . I meet Unite rep in the automotive sector yesterday , include from the Vauxhall plant in Ellesmere Port , who raise with I their concern about change to the employee car ownership scheme in the automotive sector . this will mean an increase in taxis on work people and lead to unintended consequence for the car sector . also , it will not raise the money that the Treasury believe it will , so will the Minister meet I and the interested party to discuss this far ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . the Government be fully commit to do all they can to support the UK car industry to grow , invest and provide employment in constituency such as his and in other important site across the country . specifically on the employee car ownership scheme , we should be clear that private use of a company car be a valuable benefit to an employee but it be also right that company car tax be pay on it , ensure fairness with other taxpayer who pay tax on car provide by their employer . that say , I would be happy to meet — order . please . I be try to help member . Minister , tell I which one you do not want to get in , because that be what it be get to . I recently join Sarah Laker and the wonderful team at Stationery Supplies in Marple to celebrate an impressive 20 year in business , but recent research by the British Retail Consortium and ukhospitality have show that 120 , 000 high street job be potentially at risk as a result of propose change to business rate next April . could the Chancellor and Ministers confirm that the forthcoming Budget will support my 250 local retail business through a meaningful reduction in rate and ensure that no shop pay more ? order . member be mean to shorten their question for topical . we will be introduce permanently low rate for those business in the Budget . my constituent in Airdrie and Shotts , along with many other across the country , will be impact by the decision of Maiden Life F ö rs ä kring to withdraw family protection plan cover . I understand that the Chancellor may be aware of this issue , so will her Department investigate this matter and consider what assistance might be available to those affect ? I be indeed aware of this issue . I know that it affect people in my hon . friend ' s constituency and in plenty of other Members ' constituency , too . I also know how concerned he and other member be about it . it be for the Financial Conduct Authority to consider whether it be appropriate to take any further step , but I have ask my official to engage with the FCA on how it be approach this . economist have tell the Chancellor that stamp duty be a terrible tax because it damage growth . the Government ' s response be to double stamp duty on a £ 300 , 000 house . why ? in the end , when it come to property taxation , we have to make sure that we have a fair and sustainable system that bring in revenue from a range of source . scrap individual taxis without any realistic and plausible plan to fund they be the road to economic ruin in this country . we have see what happen in the past when conservative government come forward with plan to cut taxis without the mean to afford it . we on this side of the House will not be make that mistake . british business face a toxic storm of crush tariff from America and mountain of paperwork from Europe . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s recognition that we need to do something about the latter because in my constituency , because of Brexit , business now have to deal with 27 different vat regime rather than one . can the Chancellor update we on what she be do to be a red against the red tape and solve that problem ? the work that my right hon . friend the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have be do with Europe be all about take down trade barrier where they get in the way of our national interest and economic growth . that be our priority , as well as cut bureaucracy for business here in the UK . the Chancellor justify at the Dispatch Box what a work person be . will she reiterate at the Dispatch Box now what she say to the british public during the general election campaign , which be that her forthcoming Budget will not raise taxis on work people ? we will set out all our Budget measure at the Budget . how will the Government help to fund the green infrastructure that we need , as through the coastal energy partnership that I help to set up in Bournemouth , with great British Energy take on early stage project development and the National Wealth Fund make those critical long - term investment ? through our investment in the National Wealth Fund , great British Energy , the British Business Bank and UK Export Finance , we be use every lever the Government have to support business to thrive — in stark contrast with the previous Government , which leave they high and dry . charity , trade union , academic and industry be unite in their view that replace the energy profit levy be not just an economic imperative , but a moral one . how many more of my constituent need to lose their job before the Government do just that ? at the Budget we will set out clearly our proposal for the future of the energy profit levy and the oil and gas mechanism . we will ensure that we can provide the certainty to business on the future regime as soon as we can . People in Crook and Tow Law be excite by the £ 20 million that the Chancellor be invest in our area through the pride in place scheme . after year of decline under the previous Government , which fail to spend most of the levelling - up money that they promise our community , what assurance can she give I that this time it will be local people in the drive seat and that we can spend the fund ? I be glad to hear that the people of Crook and Tow Law be already think about how to use their pride in place fund to improve their local area . child at Peases West primary school will be reassure to know that improve local playpark and upgrade community facility will be possible under this funding . from her cv to her tax promise , would the Chancellor know the truth if it stand right in front of she ? order . you do not need to bother answer that , Chancellor — we will now move on . will the Chancellor update the House on how and when school can apply for library for primary funding , which she announce on 29 September ? we have make a commitment that every single primary school in England will have a library by the end of this Parliament . the Department for Education will set out the process in due course , but any primary school without a library can rest assure that it will have one soon . will the Chancellor consider in her Budget close the loophole in small business rate relief that allow wealthy second homeowner to have their home on the rental market for 72 night a year and therefore avoid pay any tax whatsoever ? my constituent work the minimum wage be have to subsidise they . that be not fair , be it ? we will set out the change that we will make to business rate at the Budget . the Government ' s pride in place programme present a welcome opportunity for community across the country to once again feel proud of where they live , especially after year of austerity and neglect under successive conservative government . however , the Isle of Wight receive none of that funding , which feel like an oversight , give the challenge our island face , not least with cross - solent transport . will the Chancellor assure I that she be do everything possible to ensure that islander be not leave behind and that they , too , can benefit from this programme and feel pride in our island once again ? the pride in place funding be go towards 250 community across the country to ensure that local people be in control of invest in their local area . I note my hon . friend ' s comment about the community that he represent . of course , the Government ' s wide agenda about drive growth , increase people ' s wage and ensure that people be well off be central to improve the life of his constituent and those right across the UK . since the Chancellor deliver her speech this morning , the FTSE 100 have drop by over £ 22 billion — the real £ 22 billion rather than the fantasy £ 22 billion black hole . what can the Chancellor say right now to steady the market so that all our constituent ' pension be protect ? what this Government have do to steady the market be to kick the Conservatives out of office and leave they in opposition for year to come . I welcome our Government ' s recent Typhoon deal with T ü rkiye , which will see the brilliant team at Rolls - Royce in Filton play a key role in engine production and maintenance . will the Chancellor join I in congratulate they , our local small and medium - sized enterprise and other , and set out how integral she see defence as an engine for growth ? my hon . friend be a solid defender of business and work people in her constituency . the defence industrial strategy be about support british industry as we — and other country around the world — up what we spend on defence . we want british business and british worker to benefit from that investment . through freedom of information request , Restore Britain have uncover unpublished Treasury analysis break down contribution by ethnicity . evidently the data exist , so will the Chancellor commit to go far by publish the same analysis by nationality , so that we can see which group be pay their way , and , more importantly , which group be not ? Mr Speaker , I be consider how to respond to that question . I will simply leave it at say that everyone must pay their fair share of tax . that be something that the Labour party be commit to in government . on a more constructive note , for the past year I have be campaign hard for Eden Portland to open in my constituency . if open , it would be a world - class attraction , rejuvenate Portland , attract investment , create well - pay job and promote our coast . the project be a success story wait to happen , so will the Chancellor of the Exchequer continue to work with I , Dorset council and the team at Eden Portland to deliver that exciting project as soon as possible ? I thank my hon . friend again for raise the opportunity in Portland . as he know , we be work closely with Dorset council , the project and he to bring that to fruition . the Chancellor know that I agree with she that the use of public research and development be one of the most effective lever for economic growth , but it will not significantly increase over the entire five - year spending review period . if the Government be serious about economic growth , they must find a way to increase public research and development . do she agree ? we be increase spending on research and development in real term and in every year of this Parliament , for exactly the reason that the hon . gentleman mention . but we be do more than that : we be support start - up and scale - up business through our pension reform , through the British Business Bank and through UK Export Finance . we be absolutely determined to ensure that the money that go into R & D in this country turn into great business that stay in this country . will the Chancellor join I in congratulate the great work of Red Hat , a catapult base in Hyndburn that have support the safeguarding of over 300 job and the development of 46 new product ? will she meet I to consider the role of catapult in support economic growth in place such as Hyndburn ? catapult have be a big success in drive economic activity , especially in manufacturing and engineering , which be prevalent in all part of the country , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency . it be a pleasure to visit Hyndburn with her last year . I look forward to have the opportunity to do so again . in the past few week , I have visit two incredible local business : Saragusta Spirits , a local gin distillery , and Williams Family Wines , an award - win winery . however , such entrepreneurial success be be hamper by small producer relief add significant additional duty cost and prevent business from grow . with english viticulture and wine enjoy a surge in popularity , will the Chancellor consider extend small producer relief to drink above 8 . 5 % ABV , and if not , why not ? all decision relate to tax will be make at the Budget in late November . Claire found Little Foxes play Town in my constituency . it cater for and be enjoy by child and parent in the community . however , Claire ' s business have struggle with the cost of business rate and now with the requirement to pay vat . will the Minister assure I that the change in business rate will benefit small business owner such as Claire and ensure that they can continue to serve their local area ? one important thing about the business rate reform that the Government will undertake be that we support small business in grow and invest . they be the backbone of our community and our country . the reform that we will set out at the Budget — and on which we will continue to have conversation with member across the House and with business — will , I hope , continue to support and enable investment in our small business . this morning the Chancellor speak of difficult decision for everybody but the ultra - rich . with billionaire wealth soar while living standard for most people fall , do she agree that it be time to double down on gross inequality in our country and tax extreme wealth fairly , so that we can tackle the cost of living crisis , end child poverty and invest in our public service ? as the hon . Gentleman know , that be not what I say in my speech this morning . in last year ' s Budget we get rid of the non - dom tax status , we introduce vat and business rate on private school , we increase capital gain tax , we increase tax on private jet and we get rid of the carry interest — more than the Green party have ever do to reduce inequality in this country . so often the farm be the very core of a rural economy . could my hon . friend confirm what assessment have be make about the impact of propose change to agricultural property relief on growth opportunity in rural area and the viability of rural community ? as I say early , the proposal make by CenTax and other in relation to agricultural property relief would result in twice as many farm pay more tax as be plan to do under the Government ' s proposal . we think our proposal be right and fair . asylum accommodation cost be set to quadruple in Northern Ireland , from £ 100 million to £ 400 million , and across the UK to £ 15 . 3 billion in the next decade . before hike taxis again , should the Chancellor not look at where the waste really lie , when we be fund an asylum system that be fail , chaotic and expensive ? this be not racist or far - right ; it be look after our own citizen who can not pay their bill . I absolutely agree with the hon . Lady that we should reduce the cost of asylum accommodation . indeed , that be why our commitment to close all asylum hotel in this Parliament be so important . when will the Government lift the two - child cap ? the previous Labour Government cut child poverty significantly , and so will this one . between 2010 and 2020 , the personal tax allowance threshold go up by 9 . 2 % on average per year . however , it be freeze by the previous Government in 2021 , and the freeze have continue under this Government . will the Chancellor consider unfreeze the personal tax allowance and adjust the additional rate and high rate band to compensate , to ensure that tax receipt be maintain ? it be important to realise that change to taxation , if they be unfunded , will mean additional borrowing . this government will ensure that we do not return to austerity , as the Conservatives do , but nor will we return to additional borrowing , which cause interest rate to rise , cause the cost of mortgage for family to go up and lead to economic chaos . that be not the approach this Government will take . Bill Presented Dairy Farming and Dairy Products Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sarah Dyke present a Bill to make provision to require the Secretary of State , in any negotiation relate to an international trade agreement , to seek to ensure that the agreement do not result in any detriment to UK dairy farmer ; to make provision about the labelling of dairy product import from outside the UK ; to make provision about fair dealing between dairy farmer , processor and retailer , include in relation to pricing ; to provide for certain additional contractual protection for dairy farmer ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 November , and to be print ( Bill 323 ) . Fertility Treatment ( right to Time Off ) motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision for a right to pay time off work for fertility treatment ; and for connected purpose . decide to start or grow our family should be a time of joy and happiness , and of make plan for the future . every year in the UK , hundred of thousand of baby be bear under such circumstance , but for some people the path to parenthood be not simple or easy . accord to the World Health Organisation , infertility affect one in six people globally . whether it be due to medical factor , be in a same - sex relationship or consider solo parenthood , there be so many people who desperately want child but can not without extra medical support . that support come through the form of fertility treatment . in 2023 , 52 , 400 patient undergo IVF in the UK . these be not statistic ; these be our friend , our colleague and our constituent , and right now , they be not entitle to the support they deserve . of course , this have an especially big impact on woman , give that they be the one most often undergo fertility treatment in the form of IVF . currently , there be no legal right to pay time off to attend fertility appointment . woman have to hope they have an understand employer or , as I shall come to , take sick leave or annual leave instead . in fact , the Equality Act 2010 code of practice on employment make a comparison between a woman have fertility treatment and a man have cosmetic dental surgery . how can that be right ? let we be clear : fertility treatment be not a lifestyle choice ; it be a necessity for so many people . however , as I have hear from many woman , some employer treat fertility treatment as an elective procedure , and do not allow employee time off , as they would in the case of other medical procedure . IVF be not a simple filling or a dental clean - up . a single cycle of IVF typically involve five to seven appointment , often at short notice . the timing be dictate by hormone level and follicle development , which can not be predict . throughout , someone be pump their body full of hormone and drug , which can have an extraordinary physical and emotional toll . indeed , accord to research conduct by Fertility Matters at work — I pay tribute to it for all its work on this issue — 87 % of people say that they experience anxiety or depression directly relate to their treatment . so many story have be share with I and other organisation about the impact of have no legal right to pay time off for fertility treatment . woman have have to use all their annual leave , have face disciplinary action , and have hide what they be go through from their employer , and that have have a huge toll on their mental and physical health . at an already stressful time , these people , in particular woman , be have to navigate more uncertainty and stress . I be introduce this Bill because of the huge impact that the situation have on many of our constituent . Sarah — I have change her name for legal reason — paint that story clearly . after pour she all into her job for five year , she and her husband decide that it be the right time to start a family . after month try to conceive , she begin IVF , and what follow , in her word , " completely blindside " her — the staggering number of test , the drop - everything - at - once appointment , and the cocktail of drug that she would have to inject into her body in her office toilet . Sarah fear disclosing to her employer that she be undergo fertility treatment , and she be right . she develop complication and have to spend week in hospital , which mean she have to tell her employer that she be undergo IVF . not long after , her boss suddenly tell she that she need to work abroad . when she explain that she need to be close to her IVF doctor , she be tell that she have to go anyway . an employment lawyer tell she that she have no legal ground to challenge that , and the choice she be leave with be to stay or to leave — family or career . it be a choice she should never have have to make . that can not be right , and the current situation be deeply unfair . the issue have a disproportionate impact on woman and contribute to wide equality challenge — for example , to do with the gender pay gap and career progression . in the most extreme case , woman be have to choose between a career and a child . the Bill aim to right this wrong . it be straightforward : it would create a statutory right to pay time off for all necessary appointment for employee undergo fertility treatment . it give partner a right to time off , too . that be important , because as one person say : " I want to be there at the conception of my child . " I do not think that an unreasonable request . the Bill mirror the exist framework for antenatal care , recognise that fertility treatment be equally deserving of workplace protection . fundamentally , it raise these question for the House : do we believe that everyone who wish to have a child deserve a fair chance of do so ? will the state support all its citizen who have choose that path ? do we have a moral duty to level the play field for those who , through no fault of their own , find themselves struggle to get pregnant ? this be about fairness . on that point , although the Bill ' s scope be limit to employment right , we must also tackle the postcode lottery of access to NHS - fund IVF cycle , which organisation such as Fertility Action and LGBT mummy have so powerfully campaign to address . few than 10 % of integrate care board in England offer the recommend three cycle of IVF , but someone ' s chance of have a baby should not depend on where they live . the Bill be in our national interest . as Becky Kearns from Fertility Matters at Work say : " this be also a workforce crisis hide in plain sight . we ' re face a global fertility decline but fail to support those actively try to start a family " . last year , the fertility rate in England and Wales reach an all - time low , fall for the third year in a row to 1 . 41 child per woman . just to sustain current population level , it need to be 2 . 1 , so we need more people to have baby . we should be help those who wish to become parent and grow their family , and who will be raise the future worker and taxpayer on whom this country will depend . that is , of course , not the only solution to fall fertility rate , but it would help . meanwhile , while there be a climate of stigma , in which woman be afraid of reveal that they be undergo treatment , there be a very real cost for british business . without the right to receive time off , up to 63 % of people take sick leave to attend appointment . because many be concerned about tell their employer , they often take whole day off to hide their appointment , instead of the few hour that they actually require . recent research publish this week estimate that this cost UK employer up to £ 54 million in unplanned sick leave alone every year , and that be just one example of the cost to business . provide a statutory right to time off not only protect employee , but give they permission to take that time off openly , and to plan it with their employer , transform chaos into clarity for everyone . access treatment can be even more challenging for those work in certain circumstance , such as those do shift work or travel often . in fact , this right be also smart business , because 86 % of employee would be attract to a role in an organisation that provide fertility support . many business already recognise that this be not only the right thing to do , but in their interest . business such as Centrica , Cadent Gas and Aviva , which have a strong presence in my constituency , have all voluntarily give pay time off to their employee for fertility treatment , but whether someone can attend their fertility appointment should not depend on the luck of the draw , a kind manager or an understand employer ; it should be the norm for everyone . in many other country , bespoke employment legislation have already be develop . People in South Korea and Malta , for example , be entitle to pay time off for fertility treatment . we have come a long way as a society . for decade , we provide pay time off for antenatal leave , then maternity leave , and soon , thank to labour ' s Employment Rights Bill , we will have day - one right for paternity and parental leave , and for bereavement leave after pregnancy loss . we must look at fertility treatment too , because , as I know myself , the pathway to parenthood be not always easy . this Bill would help shift the culture and narrative in workplace about a topic that have remain taboo for far too long . I know there have be support across the House for this change ; I pay tribute to the former Conservative Member Nickie Aiken , who introduce a similar private Member ' s Bill in the last Parliament . I also thank the Government , and current and past Ministers , for their engagement with I on this issue , and I know that they be listen . if it be not possible to get a change in the law soon , I would encourage member to ask business in their constituency if they will join other in voluntarily provide pay time off for fertility treatment . finally , it be deeply fitting that this Bill be present in Fertility Week — a time to challenge taboo and raise awareness of the devastating physical , emotional and social impact of fertility problem . how well could this House show that it be alive to these issue and injustice than by give its support to this Bill ? this Bill be about fairness . it be about say to the thousand of people who undergo fertility treatment every year that we see they , we support they , and they should not have to face it alone . that be morally right , right for our economy and right for our national interest . I commend this Bill to the House . question put and agree to . order , that Alice Macdonald , Andrew Pakes , Daniel Francis , Jess Asato , Kate Osborne , Matt Turmaine , Michael Wheeler , Olivia Blake , Rachel Blake , Sarah Owen , Sarah Russell and Stella Creasy present the Bill . Alice Macdonald accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 28 November , and to be print ( Bill 320 ) . opposition Day - [ 12th Allotted Day ] opposition Day support High Streets I inform the House that I have select the amendment in the name of the Prime Minister . I beg to move , that this House call on the Government to support high street by cut public expenditure to facilitate the abolition of business rate for thousand of retail , hospitality and leisure premise on the high street ; and further call on the Government not to proceed with the Employment Rights Bill to avoid hire freeze and job loss , to remove red tape for business , include by review IR35 , to cut energy bill for business and to tackle retail crime , thereby protect key pillar of local community include post office , pub and pharmacy . I be pleased to move the motion in my name and that of the Leader of the Opposition . we celebrate and support our high street — their independent shop , the warm refuge they provide from loneliness , and the way that they incubate new business . they bring we together as community , provide market for local farmer and food producer , offer venue for street festival and often afford young people their first step on the career ladder , but across Britain ' s high street , the light be dim , the laughter in our pub be fall silent , and shutter on shop be come down for the last time . when high street thrive , community thrive . when our high street retreat , so do civic society . we conservative profoundly value our high street enterprise , which be why one of our first action in government will be to abolish business rate for thousand of retail , hospitality and leisure business . in July , the Chancellor say that she will make the UK " the good place to start and grow a business " . — [ Official Report , 29 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 1051 . ] well , goodness I , she have an odd way of show it ! in her very first Budget , the Chancellor slap business with a £ 25 billion tax raid , and with a national insurance job tax , which hit high - street business the hard , and mean that it cost business owner more simply to give someone a job . hospitality be hit particularly hard by that toxic concoction . a ukhospitality survey find that 76 % of business put up their price , one third restrict their hour and 63 % have to cut their staffing as a result . be that not the reason why we need this policy to try to improve our high street ? my hon . friend make exactly the right point : it be a devastating concoction of the Chancellor ' s last year , and I believe that I be right in say that ukhospitality calibrate the figure and estimate that 98 , 000 job have be lose across the hospitality sector . how proud this Government must be of cost mostly young and often vulnerable people their first chance ! my hon . friend be give a powerful speech . hospitality be fundamental to social mobility . I would have think that Government Members would be ashamed of a policy that mean that those furth away from the labour market — young people — be put off from try to get their first job . hospitality be essential to enable they to join the labour market , and the Government have put block in the way of people who want a well life . my right hon . friend be exactly right . let we be optimistic : we be here to celebrate our high street , and perhaps all be not lose . the Chancellor could yet repent and reverse some of her most damaging policy , or adopt our policy of cut business rate entirely for 250 , 000 high - street business . when I visit Salisbury chamber of commerce on Friday , it give I the example of a single mother do 30 hour a week on the national living wage . as a result of the combination of the increase in the national living wage , the threshold change and the rate change on national insurance , that individual cost a business 11 % more than they do last year . as a consequence , they can not take on anyone else . what do my hon . friend think about the impact that have on the economy ? my right hon . friend represent his constituent in Salisbury diligently , and make exactly the same point . with respect , the Government have not understand business , and the Treasury do not pause to consider , or to conduct an impact assessment . in particular , the capricious change in threshold from £ 9 , 100 down to £ 5 , 000 , without any impact assessment from the Treasury , have do immense damage to high - street business . the Government should hang their head in shame . my hon . friend will know that caf é s , include small caf é s , play an important part on the high street and bring people to it . be he aware that under this Government , mushroom be up , bacon be up , egg be up , sausage be up , bread be up , tea be up and milk be up ? therein be a threat to the full english breakfast . this government might be forgive for many thing , but take away the full english breakfast from the high street be not one of they . I enjoy a full English as much as I suspect my colleague do . it be not just breakfast that be under threat ; it be also lunch , supper , tea , dinner and the great british pub . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for bring this debate forward , and I welcome it . I be always constructive and encouraging , so let I say that Ards and North Down borough council , my local council back home , have a scheme for a new , thrive high street . a council grant enable shop owner to repaint their premise , provide new signage and address the blight of vacant shop . online shopping without investment mean that the high street can not survive . do he agree that the Government should extend the initiative that we have back home in Northern Ireland , in my council area , to council here , to help with job and rebuild the high street ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman . there be so much that we in this House and those in the government — if they be minded to do so — can do to alleviate the burden on business . it be hard to run a business at the good of time , and it be even hard when the Government seek to be a headwind , rather than a tailwind . will the hon . member give way ? I have so many wonderful contribution to take from my colleague . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will have his chance later . one thing that the Government might like to reflect on be the perverse situation that people face vat find themselves in . the £ 90 , 000 threshold be cause many small business people , such as barber , to adjust their behaviour — classically , reduce their working week from five day to four or three . do my hon . friend agree that the Treasury need to look at the increase tax take that it might receive if it change VAT threshold to allow those small business to work full time ? my right hon . friend make another excellent point . I recently have the wonderful opportunity to meet Dr Arthur Laffer , whose pioneer economic research show that reduce taxis increase not only the growth rate of the economy but , as a consequence , the tax take to the Treasury . that be a very important point about incentive and what we in this House can do . the hon . Member be speak about the tax rate . be it not also important to talk about the tax gap ? that gap be £ 46 . 8 billion , of which £ 6 . 4 billion be link to tax evasion . we be see a lot of that on our high street up and down the country . what do he think should be do across Government to tackle it ? I be afraid that the hon . Gentleman must have overstay oral question to the Chancellor , because what we be do in the Chamber now be celebrate , cherish and support our high street , not accuse business in our constituency of tax evasion . however , I be sure he have impress his Treasury colleague , who be never shy about try to transfer wealth from the private sector to the less productive public sector . growth , increase turnover and increase profit for microbusinesse should be a cause for celebration , but the reality be that cross the reduce vat threshold can be a disaster . so many supplier of small business be themselves small business ; there be no vat that they can reclaim , so it can be dreadful . again , that be an excellent point . it be something that the Chancellor , who be spread uncertainty and consternation again this morning , should think about in relation to the conduct of his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . while business absolutely understand that part of their role be to contribute to society — to the community in which they exist — it seem that HMRC so often go out of the way to make it hard for our business . this be an organisation that literally seek to turn its telephone line off for six month of the year , until the previous Government refuse to allow it to do so . hospitality venue , which we have talk about , be really suffer . they be at the apex of those affect by the change to employment law , taxis and business rate . will the hon . member give way ? I will make some progress . last week , I have the opportunity to visit the queen ' s Head in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , which bring home to I the challenge that that business be face . of course , all hon . member in this Chamber represent constituency , and trader on high street in place like Arundel , Midhurst , Petworth , Pulborough , Storrington and Henfield have work tirelessly throughout history to make our high street and our community what they be today , but — from the unacceptable time it have take to fix the fire - damage Angel Inn in Midhurst to the imposition of high parking charge by Liberal Democrat councillor — government be too often a headwind , rather than a tailwind . the hon . Member be talk about the importance of high street . in Hastings town centre , £ 150 , 000 of level - up money be provide to renovate the old Debenhams building and open a family fun factory . sadly , that close after a couple of week , the staff be not pay , and the building be board up . that taxpayer money be give to one of the big conservative donor , Lubov Chernukhin . she have leave with the money , and have not reply to my letter ask for it to be give back to the people of Hastings . will the hon . member , or perhaps the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) — who receive £ 70 , 000 from that donor last year — help I to get a response about where our money be ? can I just check that you have let the right hon . member know that you intend to refer to she ? indicate assent . okay . I be sure that the hon . Lady will wish to take that matter up with Ministers through the appropriate channel , but there will not be many fun factory on our high street when they feel the burden of Labour ' s further change . run a business — something that Conservative Members understand — be not easy at the good of time , but thank to this Chancellor and this Government , these be far from the good of time . for the average pub , business rate have soar from £ 4 , 000 per year to over £ 9 , 000 , and this morning , we have learn that the Chancellor be come back for more . a year ago , she promise that she be do — that her tax raid on business be the end of it . she be lead we down the garden path . spending be out of control , and she expect taxpayer , include business , to clean up her mess . do my hon . friend agree that we have a Government who simply do not understand business ? they seem to think that they can just squeeze and squeeze small business because they make unlimited profit . if they do that , there will be no business leave on our high street . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . one only have to look at the wording of the motion we be debate and that of the Government amendment . we conservative talk about lift burden , remove business rate , cut red tape , and take more action to address crime on our high street . the Labour party talk about compulsory purchase , more grant and more subsidy — it be not interested in lift the burden on business . do my hon . friend agree that the Government present an illusion of choice ? I will give he a very brief example . two week ago , I meet the owner of a business in my constituency — a young couple who own a hospitality business . they have two young child ; one be three week old . they be buy a new house , and have say to I that because of the pressure bear down on they as a result of choice make by this government , they fear for the future of their business , which may have to close next year . be it not the case that the Government be give people an illusion of a choice , when in reality they be stifle the economy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and the choice that business face be enormously difficult . every single day , they have to ask themselves whether they should put up price to try to claw back some of the damage — some of that £ 25 billion cost — thereby increase inflation and keep interest rate high for long , push up the cost of living . do they reduce the number of employee or the hour per employee , or do they simply fold in the face of disincentive , a lack of support and headwind rather than tailwind ? do they shut up shop before the Chancellor ' s next intervention heap on more and more burden ? the hon . Member be make a very powerful speech . high street across my constituency be struggle , and one additional burden that they carry be a parcel border in the Irish sea cause by the Windsor framework and the protocol . it cost a child ' s clothe retailer over £ 200 to get a delivery from GB . do the hon . Member agree that this be an extra burden that retailer should not have to carry , and that the Government need to do something about it quickly before business go out of business ? rather than give away our fishing for 12 year and get nothing in return because of a dogma , or spend time on international affair — give away the British Indian Ocean Territory and pay for the privilege — the Government should be prioritise the need of business and focus on the specific barrier mention by the hon . member . do so would make a huge difference to business in her constituency . it be not just the Chancellor . the Business Secretary seem to be do his bit too , create more small business by shrink exist large one . his 330 - page unemployment Bill , which be due to come back before the House tomorrow , will make life a nightmare for every employer on our high street . it will make flexible and seasonal working impossible , and will prevent employer from take a risk on young people and work returner — some of the most vulnerable people in society — for fear of join the backlog of 490 , 000 claim to employment tribunal . rise — if the hon . Lady want to talk about what the Government be do to help employment , I would love to hear her intervention . the flexible labour market under the Tories mean that people be employ but do not know when they be work , how long they be work for and how much they be get pay . you do not improve worker ’ right by make they unemployed , create a generation of jobless young people who can not find their way into gainful employment . and do you know what ? it be not just the Conservatives who be say that . even that finish school for socialist , the Resolution Foundation , oppose labour ' s Bill because of the unemployment that it will yield . what this show we be that the Government be simply not serious about business . we conservative get it . many of we have work in business ourselves , and we understand that business take risk , create wealth and employ million . that be why we introduce business rate relief before this Labour Government cut it , and it be why we will introduce a 100 % relief for retail , hospitality and leisure business , take 250 , 000 high street premise out of business rate entirely . the shadow Minister will , of course , be delighted to know that the Scottish National party be the first party anywhere in the United Kingdom to introduce business rate relief for small business . as for the Labour Government ' s business literacy , which the hon . Gentleman critique quite accurately , do it concern he that it manifest itself in deeply disingenuous move , like take a penny off the price of a pint , while the same pub — the Taybank in Dunkeld , perhaps , or the Stag in Forfar — be see its national insurance contribution put up and its energy bill go through the roof ? this government can not join the dot . be the hon . Gentleman concern that this be only go to get bad ? I be enormously concerned . I be concern when I wake up this morning , and I be even more concerned after hear the intervention from our Chancellor : no certainty , confidence plummeting , and the promise of more taxis to follow . I hope that the shadow Minister will explain something to I . I totally agree that business rate need reform , but I be deeply concerned about the hole in local government finance that it will cause . my local council , Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole , have calculate that it retain £ 66 million from business rate . can he please tell I where that will come from ? to coin a phrase , we be not go to balance the book of local government on the back of entrepreneurial business that be keep our high street alive , provide service for the community and allow our economy to grow . when the shadow Minister ' s party come into government in 2010 , I be work in the Animal store in Queens Arcade in Cardiff , which be an anchor institution there : it bring people in , and ensure that retail be thrive in the community . when his party leave government 14 year later , the Animal store be close , as be the majority of the other unit in the arcade . can he comment on why that happen on his party ' s watch ? I be not sure that we be in charge in the particular area that the hon . Gentleman have mention , but I be pleased to know that , like so many of we , he have his first experience of work — his first leg - up , his first work opportunity — in the retail and hospitality sector . it be hugely important , and give people great opportunity in life . I have talk about our promise — [ interruption . ] I do not want to get too deflect by story about the Animal store , of which the hon . Gentleman clearly have enormously fond recollection , and where he spend many a happy hour . will my hon . friend give way ? I will , but I suspect that I should then make a bit more progress . may I move the conversation on from animal , much as I would love to talk about animal today ? in Epping Forest we have fantastic pub , restaurant and caf é s — include the Queen Vic , Il Bacio , Gosht , Alecco , Papillon and Poppy ' s — but they be all struggle under this Labour Government . do my hon . friend agree that the Government should listen to our sensible proposal to cut business rate and help they to get their energy bill and food cost down ? I absolutely agree . we be all here individually today represent our fantastic constituency , our wonderful high street and our entrepreneurial business — those resident and constituent who seek to be employ and contribute to a grow part of our economy . that be why we in the opposition be here to talk about our plan to save the high street , not to make the sort of partisan point that we be hear from Labour Members . family business be crucial to our high street , include mine in Inverurie , Ellon , Turriff and Huntly . indeed , they be the backbone of our high street , yet this Government ' s national insurance contribution change and Employment Rights Bill , and their slashing of business property relief , will have a huge impact on they and employment in they . what do the shadow Minister think of that , and what can we do to help our high street and , in particular , family business in they ? all up the Chorley market ! so many family business will be devastate by the family business death tax introduce by the Labour party . we often hear about the plight of farmer and food producer , but family business be even more numerous . if you have survive Labour ' s job tax , if you have survive Labour ' s more than double of business rate , if you have survive the red tape — so much more of it — that Labour be impose , all that await you when you seek to pass your business or your family farm on to the next generation be Labour ' s family business death tax . that be why , as part of our plan for the high street , we will repeal those damaging measure . rise — I hope that the hon . Lady be rise to commit herself to repeal they too . no ; I want to remind the shadow Minister that we on this side of the House talk up our high street , while all I can hear from the opposite Benches be people talk they down . as for red tape , the family business in my constituency be desperate to get rid of the red tape that the Conservatives create during their botch Brexit deal . do the hon . Gentleman agree that by give £ 5 billion to the Pride in Place scheme , this Government be do a great deal more to support our high street than his Government ever do ? that be a valiant attempt to return to past history , but on this side of the House we be look forward . our plan for the high street would remedy the damage that have be do not over past year but over past month , and even again this morning — the collapse in confidence cause by our Chancellor . will my hon . friend reflect on the fact that many of those sit on the opposite Benches have clearly be dragoon into come here to support the government — as often happen in government , God help we . do he think that they walk down their high street tell the shopkeeper , " it be great to have national insurance charge so high that you can not employ anyone , it be great to have an employment Bill that mean you will not be able to employ anyone again , and with the rate that be out there , you may all be out of business — suck it up " ? my right hon . friend have make exactly the right point . it be genuinely bewildering — and we will see this again tomorrow — that when every single major business group in the country urge the Government not to proceed with their damaging unemployment Bill , when Labour think - tank urge they not to proceed with that Bill , and when not a single business in favour of that Bill can be name by a Labour Minister — other than the Co - op and one that be overseas — they still seek to proceed with it . rise — I will make some progress . we have talk about the damage be do by the Chancellor , and we have talk about business rate and our plan to reform they and give the high street a chance , but there be more . our cheap power plan will cut energy bill by 20 % , with the average restaurant save a very real £ 5 , 000 and the average pub save £ 1 , 100 . perhaps Labour Members would like to emulate that energy plan . we will save the high street from the scourge of crime and shoplifting , and early release of prisoner , by hire a further 10 , 000 police officer , triple the use of stop and search and reverse labour ' s release of criminal to make our high street safe . we will repeal those most damaging element of the Employment Rights Bill , and rather than pay lip service to cut red tape , we will take a chainsaw to bureaucracy and blockage to business , from plan to license to IR35 , and so much more . we stand with the maker , not the taker : the people who put their time , energy and money on the line to make our community a well place . we know that one can not build prosperity by punish those who create it , that one can not revive our high street by tax they into submission , and that one can not protect a worker by bankrupt their employer . our message to the Government today be simple : give business the confidence they need ; remove the threat of taxis hang over their head ; listen to the voice of business ; and support our plan to support our brilliant high street . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " House " to end and insert " recognise the need to rejuvenate high street follow 14 year of decline under the previous Administration ; welcome the Government ' s action to restore Pride in Place back by £ 5 billion to support 339 location to empower community to drive meaningful change in their local area , include high street ; support local community be give new power to tackle vacancy , and prevent new betting and vape shop in their area , include the ability to auction off persistently empty premise through High Street Rental Auctions ; far welcome the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill that will ban upwards - only rent review in commercial lease , help to create fair rental condition ; endorse the Government ' s support for property owner ; also welcome that from April 2026 , eligible retail , hospitality , and leisure property with rateable value below £ 500 , 000 will benefit from permanently low business rate multiplier ; welcome the Plan for Small Businesses which support high street small business as the backbone of local economy and which commit to cut the administrative burden of regulation for business by 25 % ; and far recognise that the Employment Rights Bill will bring employment right legislation into the 21st century , extend the protection that many small business already offer their worker to all . " I will start with where I agree with the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) . our town and city centre be part of our identity and our sense of belong . when they do not meet expectation — when shop be shut and footfall be down — that can dent pride in place , hold back the economy and leave our community divide . put simply , they be part of the nation ' s barometer of whether we — all of we in this House — be do a good job . that also mean that , when our high street prosper , the country can too . retail and hospitality form the engine of our economy . every pound spend on our high street support job , renewal and living standard . but , after 14 year of decimate our high street , I think the Conservatives have some cheek in raise this debate and pretend they have solution . the shift to online and out - of - town retail leave too many high street with increase vacancy rate , and the Conservatives do absolutely nothing about it . austerity and cut to local government rob our public realm of investment , and they do absolutely nothing about it . the harsh pain of all be feel because of the cost of living pressure result from Liz Truss — remember she ? — and her catastrophic mini - Budget , which Conservative Members support every step of the way . where the Conservatives oversee neglect and decline — for which they should hang their head in shame — this Labour Government believe that the good day of the nation ' s high street be ahead of we . but to reach they , we need the full force of Government to make that a reality . only by raise household income and put more money in people ' s pocket can we boost the demand that our high street need . to the conservative party , who pretend that there be a quick fix , I say this : you crash the economy ; do not forget that . you put job and livelihood at risk ; do not forget that . you oversee 14 year of decline for our high street and our district centre ; this Labour Government be deal with the mess that you leave behind . so , quite frankly , we will take no lecture from the Conservatives . do the Minister regret the fact that unemployment have go up every single month since Labour come to power , whereas , over the 14 year of the Conservative Government , 800 more people a day — 4 million in total — come into work ? surely she must recognise those fact , away from she — albeit rather brilliant and fiery — rhetoric . any economist will tell we that there be always a lag . what we be now see be the consequence of the last party ' s failure . we be fix the mess ; we be fix the foundation in order to repair , and I will give example of that . growth be our priority for the nation ' s high street , but we also recognise that , historically , the effect of that have not be equally feel . that be why we be give community great control over their area , so that they can drive the change that they want to see . in September , the Communities Secretary and I set out the Government ' s Pride in Place programme and strategy . we will deliver up to £ 20 million of funding and support across the 244 place that need it the most — place that be neglect by the Conservatives . it will be up to new neighbourhood board to decide how that be spend over the next decade , but each area will be encourage to use the funding to build thrive public place . do the Minister agree that the £ 1 . 5 million that my constituency of Monmouthshire will get for our five high street will make a huge impact and help deliver the change that we so vitally need in our high street ? my hon . friend be completely right . through our Pride in Place impact fund , we be provide a cash injection to 95 place across the country . that will be spend by local authority specifically to drive and improve high street . that be a direct , tangible action that this Labour Government be take against those 14 year of decline . I know that , as a London MP , the Minister spend a lot of time read the Shropshire Star , so I be sure she will be aware of its recent report that , year on year , there have be a 15 . 5 % increase in business in severe distress ; across the west midland , year on year , the figure be 11 . 9 % . do the Minister not finally get that raise taxis do not grow the economy ? we absolutely understand the pressure that business be under , but that pressure do not happen overnight ; it be the consequence of 14 year in which we have not see productivity growth and 14 year in which the economy have not grow . we understand the economic reality and we be take action to respond to it , but , candidly , it be pretty disingenuous for the Conservatives to pretend that the foundation that they leave for the economy be not absolutely corrosive and decimate . that be the inheritance that we be build on . I thank the Minister for give way ; she have be very generous with her intervention time . in Harlow , we have a lot of sole trader — workman and workwoman who be self - employ . one issue that they face be the long wait to actually get see by the NHS , which have a huge impact on their business . be it not right that we need to invest in the NHS , and that we should welcome the record investment that this Government have put into it ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we know that there be a fundamental link between public service that work and can support people across the economy and how well the economy do . this Labour Government have make the decision that it be right for we to invest in our public service , and right for we to invest in our NHS , because it be good for people , but also good for the economy . we do not resile from that decision . I strongly empathise with the Minister ' s articulate fury at the previous Government and the damage they do to our village and town centre . but will she acknowledge the fact that Cumbria Tourism , which represent the employer of 60 , 000 people in Cumbria , report that the national insurance rise have see 37 % of those business cut staff , 34 % freeze pay and 33 % halting recruitment ? be that not likely to reduce the tax take — as well as damage business generally — and reduce our ability to support the public service that she say she be so passionate about ? we understand that business across all sector be under pressure . we be work with the tourism sector , because it be absolutely vital to the growth of the wide economy , and with all sector . this require a whole set of intervention , whether that be what we be talk about today , in term of our high street , the action we be take to support training and skill for the workforce , or the investment we be put into the economy . we recognise the pressure , but I come back to the fact that that pressure do not come overnight . if you decimate and under - invest in the economy for 14 year , you end up where we be now . the choice for this Labour Government be that we can now do the job of renewal . it take time , and we recognise that , but that be a journey that we be determined to go alongside business on . in a polycentric city such as Stoke - on - Trent , we have six town centre , as well as many other area of trade . one big thing that affect we under the last Conservative Government — we also have a conservative council in Stoke - on - Trent — be the closure of five of the six town - centre police station , which make those town centre feel unsafe , and the complete hollowing out of our bus network , which mean that many people could not get to the town centre to spend their hard - earn money in the shop . could the Minister set out what this government be do to reverse those terrible trend under the last government ? I thank my hon . friend for set out all the failure and mistake that we be now have to fix . we be very conscious of that . that be why , through our Pride in Place strategy , for example , we introduce an action plan that be fundamentally about how we build strong community , create thrive place and allow our community to take control . as part of that , we be take new step to support high street and town centre . that include roll out high street rental auction , ban unfair upward - only rent review clause in England and Wales , support property owner to establish business improvement district , reform the compulsory purchase process and land compensation rule to allow local authority to shape their high street , and open a new co - operative development unit within the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to help our community take great control and ownership of their high street . the problem in our high street so often stem from the " we know good " attitude that we see from the last government over 14 year , so the answer must be to hand power to community . I emphasise the importance of the pride in place programme for place such as Ramsgate , where the vacancy rate in the high street have be an appalling 24 % . we be leave with the legacy of 14 year of Tory Government , and only because of the social and community energy in Ramsgate have we be able to turn that around , with the support of the pride in place programme . my hon . friend be completely right . we feel that we be give place the tool and lever that they need to turn around the legacy of the last government . the hon . Lady be make great pace through her speech , but I want to bring she back to one point . she have make the case for all the peripheral thing that the Government have do to try to help high street , and for various other thing . do she not understand — I would like her opinion on this — that raise national insurance on small business , and reduce the time in which they have to pay , have damage their ability to take people on and be really cost they , to the point that many have close ? do she not agree that that single decision have do more damage to our high street than anything that she talk about repair ? what have damage the high street be 14 year of neglect . the Conservatives pretend that it be thrive for 14 year and that we do not see shop close down , board - up shop and the decimation of our public realm . we will take no advice from they , because they have 14 year to respond , but they categorically fail . do the Minister agree that it will be infuriate to many of my constituent to hear the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) describe what the Labour Government be do as " peripheral " ? that presumably include the growth mission fund , which be make a multimillion - pound investment in my high street in Kirkcaldy . the high street be leave in a state of decline after 14 year of conservative government . I thank my hon . friend for mention that what we be do be not peripheral — I be so incense by that that I forget to mention it . it be fundamental that we respond to the challenge in our high street . the key point that I want people to take away be that we be act , whether it be through the pride in place strategy and programme or through the action that we be take on business rate . the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs mention business rate . from April 2026 , eligible retail , hospitality and leisure property with rateable value below £ 500 , 000 will benefit from permanently low business rate multiplier . that will , critically , level the play field between online retailer and high street . the hon . Lady talk a lot about footfall on high street , and I think we all agree that more footfall benefit business . with that in mind , what consideration have she give to regenerate our town and city centre by build on brownfield site and set proper housing target in our city centre , rather than on the periphery of city ? the right hon . Lady be absolutely right , and we be densifye . I return , however , to the 14 year for which the Conservatives fail on housing . do they remember remove housing target completely ? their carping on at we for make progress on our commitment to deliver 1 . 5 million home be for the bird . we be clear that we need thrive high street , and that require mixed use and a range of thing in our strategy . the Minister be talk about the conservative party ' s record of damage our high street . as I mention early , in Hastings , £ 150 , 000 of level - up money be give to a conservative donor , who run off with it and leave a board - up shop in our town centre . I do not hear from the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , whether the conservative party will refuse to take any donation from Ms Chernukhin after she run off with that money . I hope that when the shadow Minister stand up , he will respond to that question and say whether the conservative party will return the money . in the end , we need investment in our community . that be what we be provide , whether it be by reduce business rate or through the work of my Department for Business and Trade colleague to deliver the backing your business plan , a long - term strategy for support small and medium - sized enterprise and the everyday economy . as part of that , family - run business on the high street will benefit from new tool to unlock access to finance , action to crack down on late payment — we know that be a massive issue for sme — and easy access to the business growth service . will the Minister give way ? I will make progress . hon . member have mention retail crime . we have scrap effective immunity for low - value shoplifting , and we be take action to protect retail worker from assault . alongside the Employment Rights Bill , which we be proud of , that will make retail a more desirable career choice , improve retention and make recruitment clear . we be very clear that employment right be good for worker , but also for business and for the economy . the amendment contain a bit of an oxymoron , because it say that the Government ' s plan for small business " commit to cut the administrative burden of regulation for business by 25 % " , but it then go on to mention the Employment Rights Bill . will the 25 % cut in regulation take place before or after the Employment Rights Bill become law , and where will that cut come from ? in all the measure that the Minister have talk about , we have not hear about that one . it be incredibly tell that the hon . Member think that regulation consist of thing such as protect our worker , ban exploitative zero - hour contract and ensure that worker have sick pay . this be a fundamental part of the social contract . we be try to ensure that when the economy do well , the everyday person do well , and that require they to have basic right and protection . we be very clear about and proud of that . quite frankly , it be tragic that the Conservatives , who govern for 14 year in which worker be hugely exploit and the economy crash , can not see that . finally , before I make progress , I will reflect on energy bill . we understand that business be under pressure from energy bill . that be why we be drive forward our clean power mission , because we be clear that the shift to renewable will drive down bill . alongside that , we be give sme access to the Energy Ombudsman for the first time , strengthen their ability to renegotiate contract through blend and extend , and help business to reduce their use in order to reduce energy cost . do the Minister understand the immediacy of the pressure on small business ? she may have the good of intention , and I be sure that price will unwind in five or 10 year , eventually result in low energy bill for commercial enterprise across the United Kingdom . that will not happen this week , however , or even this year or next , and many of they will not survive . what be her message to they about this perpetual " jam tomorrow " culture ? we understand the pressure that business be under with energy , but it be drive by our dependence on global fossil fuel market . we can do sticking - plaster or short - term fix , or we can deal with the fundamental problem . we be push towards clean power , because that be how we ultimately drive down bill . that be not an offer to do so in 10 or 20 year ; we be commit to drive down bill in this Parliament , and we will not resile from that . Labour Members agree that our high street will always be at the heart of our community , and we welcome the cross - party agreement on that . unless we grow the economy and put more money in people ' s pocket , however , our high street will never match local people ' s ambition . that be why our high street be front and centre of our growth mission , and why we be commit to drive their renewal . I ask everyone in the House to remember the record and the legacy of the Conservatives , who be hold this debate pretend that they really care . for 14 year , our high street be decimate , shop be board up and people in all our community see the impact of the Conservatives ’ action . there have be a lot of talk about hospitality , with people mention it as a great source of first job . under the last government , however , 7 , 000 pub be close — last order be call on those pub . do the Minister agree that our plan for thrive high street mean that Labour be the only party look to ensure that more pint be pour for our hard - work people ? my hon . friend be completely right — 7 , 000 pub . Statistic after statistic speak to the Conservatives ' failure , so rather than be smug and provide fake solution , they should be far more humble about the state in which they have leave our community . it be now on this Labour Government to fix the mess they leave behind . rise — Order . before I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , I make it clear that we will be on a six - minute time limit from the first Back Bencher . I call Sarah Olney . the current landscape be extremely challenging for high street business . I be sure that member across the House have hear from countless local business in their constituency , on their high street and in the heart of their community about the challenge they face — from the Government ' s national insurance increase to sky - high energy bill and uncertainty about what the Employment Rights Bill mean for they . I wish to contextualise the motion and the challenge of the business landscape after year of dire economic mismanagement by the last Conservative Government . on their watch , energy cost soar and economic chaos unfold follow their mini - budget . business confidence fall , in part because of the scrapping of the industrial strategy and the huge increase in trade barrier follow their botched trade agreement with the EU . do the hon . Lady understand the immediacy of the problem face company in the high street ? she have mention energy cost , and she be quite right to do so , but why do the Liberal Democrat amendment suggest that change should be make to reduce they " within a decade " ? the liberal Democrat plan aim to halve energy bill within the decade by scrap the link between gas and electricity price . we have a positive plan to make a real difference to energy price for household and business . I wonder whether the Conservatives have really learn the lesson from their time in government . I listen with interest when my hon . friend the Member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) ask the shadow Business Secretary , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , about how their plan for business rate cut would impact on local government finance , and he have nothing to say . to I , that be an indicator that the Conservatives have not yet learn the lesson of the mini - Budget , and that they plan to repeat all those error again if they ever get back into government . however , many of the challenge that business face be be compound by decision take by this Government , from their damaging national insurance rise to continue uncertainty about Ministers ' approach to the Employment Rights Bill . the economy be practically stagnant , with business confidence down and unemployment up . the Government must act more urgently to support our high street , which be vital to our local economy and provide the job that so many rely on . Stalham , a beautiful market town in North Norfolk , be one of the place receive support from the high street taskforce to revitalise its high street , and local business be enthusiastically get involve . however , to support business to thrive , we have to equip they with skill and expertise . will she join I in praise the work of my local council in provide training for small business , and do she agree that we need more way to upskill and support business owner and manager so they can run the most successful business possible ? my hon . friend represent his constituent and their business in North Norfolk so admirably . he be absolutely right about skill , which neither Conservative nor Labour Members have yet mention , but which be fundamental to power the growth we really need in our economy . provide the support that our high street need should not and can not be do by cut public expenditure , as the conservative motion call for , but by take bold action : implement the industrial strategy with more urgency , address the workforce crisis and negotiate a new bespoke UK - EU custom union to grow our economy . in 2019 , the previous Conservative Government make a manifesto pledge to fundamentally review the business rate system , and the Liberal Democrats agree that we need a fundamental overhaul of this broken system . however , throughout their tenure , they fail to keep that promise to business and local community , so we will continue to call on this Government to reimagine business rate , and not just by tinker around the edge and put in place stick - plaster solution . on business rate , coastal community such as West Dorset be heavily reliant on hospitality for provide job — over 6 , 000 locally — and it be vital to our tourism economy . the George in West Bay have see its business rate go from £ 8 , 000 to £ 27 , 000 , which basically end any chance of its make a profit in the foreseeable future . how can we talk about support hospitality , tourism and small business when such business have to suffer those kind of cost ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . business all across the country , include in my own constituency of Richmond Park , have report similar massive increase in their business rate bill , and the Government urgently need to get to grip with that . I would like to raise the plight of hairdresser . angel in Thames Ditton in my constituency tell I that this Government be hit small business with high employer cost , rise business rate and wage hike that be already squeeze very thin margin . they be face not just one increase , but a combination of high utility supply cost , wage rise , NI hike and business rate that be all add up , and they be really struggle to survive . my hon . friend be absolutely right . it be not just one thing or two thing , but a whole range of different cost be be load on to business one after the other , all at the same time and during a time when the economy be very sluggish and growth be extremely difficult . my hon . friend have list a number of factor , but one that would not cost the Government very much money to put right be the lack of a workforce . in area such as mine , 63 % of all the hospitality and tourism business be operate below capacity , because they can not find enough staff . there be surely room in town centre , help by flexibility in planning law , to create more affordable housing in those town centre and create a workforce , as well as to create footfall to create demand for those business . my hon . friend be absolutely right . we be talk about high street , but there be a much wide issue across the entire economy about the workforce . if we can get solution to work for some of these thing , they will have a knock - on impact , and many more sector will see a boost to their economic prospect . on business rate , which so many of my hon . friend have raise , the current Government pledge in their manifesto to replace the business rate system , but still no meaningful action have be take . as we be nearly 18 month into this government , I wish to ask if they plan to keep their word on that commitment . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way four time in such quick succession . of the £ 40 million of business rate levy this year by Surrey Heath borough council , only £ 1 million have be retain locally . give that borough council levy business rate and that business have an expectation that the money be retain locally , do my hon . friend agree with I that it be vital that the money get put back into the local economy to improve infrastructure and to increase the sense of place ? if that can not be do , perhaps business rate should be scrap altogether and replace with a more just way of raise fund . my hon . friend ' s local high street in Camberley be very close to my heart , because my first job be in WH Smith there some year ago now . he be absolutely right about business rate , and I repeat my question to the government : please , what action be you go to be take on business rate ? order . the hon . Member should say , " what action be they go to take ? " if she say , " what action be you go to take ? " that mean I , and I be not take any . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker : what action be they go to take ? while the last Government do so much damage to our high street business , the Labour Government ' s national insurance job tax have only make thing hard for they and for the worker . the Liberal Democrats have vote against the change to employer national insurance contribution at every opportunity , and I once again urge the Government to scrap these measure . the change to employer national insurance contribution announce in the last autumn Budget be an unfair and deeply damaging tax measure that be hit small business of all kind — social care provider , GPs — and the lack of sector consultation and business foresight prior to the change have be hugely damaging to business confidence . the Government ' s handling of the Employment Rights Bill seem to have only compound that uncertainty . so much of the detail that be expect in the Bill have be leave to secondary legislation or future consultation , make it impossible for business to plan ahead with certainty . the lack of clarity on probation period risk pile undue worry on to business manager who be struggle to find the right skill in the first place , for which many of my colleague have provide evidence . I thank the hon . Lady for give way . this be a friendly intervention . she be a pro - european . be she pleased that ikea , a brilliant swedish company that invest heavily in this country and have a fantastic business model , be pro the Employment Rights Bill ? will she push her colleague in the Lords to get it through and on to the statute book ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . there be many part of the Employment Rights Bill that we be happy to support . however , there be some bit — just like ikea , it may not fit together . [ laughter . ] there be , dare I say , perhaps some bit missing , which mean it do not add up and we can ' t put it all together — I don ' t know where I be go with that , sorry ! [ laughter . ] the training , hire and retain of a skilled workforce be issue affect business across the country . the apprenticeship levy do not work and many business can not get the funding they need to train staff , while hundred of million in funding go unspent . the Liberal Democrats have be call for the apprenticeship levy to be replace with a wide skill and training levy , which would give business flexibility over how they spend their money to train their staff . we therefore welcome the Government ' s intention to reform the levy and refocus it towards growth and skill , but we need fast progress and Skills England make into a properly independent body , with employer at its heart . however , we have concern about move funding away from level 7 apprenticeship , as we know this initiative increase social mobility . I will continue to ask the Minister if they will accelerate the announcement of the detail of the new scheme , outline exactly what training will be eligible so that business can plan with certainty and develop the workforce we need . perhaps the most obvious issue that have impact our high street over recent year be the last government ' s botch Brexit trade deal . many business owner have highlight the ream of red tape and trading form that they must navigate to import good from Europe or export they to the continent . this be valuable time take away from the productive task involve in run a business , and Government policy have simply make life for manager far more difficult . meanwhile , unemployment have go up and a range of sector be face acute labour shortage , as my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) have highlight on many occasion in this place . many high vacancy be concentrate in high street sector such as hospitality , retail , the art and entertainment . those be exactly the kind of industry that young people visit the UK for a few year might wish to work in . a youth mobility scheme would offer british business a real opportunity to address staffing shortage by welcome young people from EU country for a limited period , bring fresh talent and energy to our workforce . I ask the Government to set out a timeline for when their announced youth experience scheme will be introduce . however , the liberal Democrats welcome the motion ' s call to increase support for high business energy bill . I urge the Government to act with more urgency in address energy cost for business , include by accelerate the launch of the industrial competitiveness scheme , the consultation for which be not even due to be launch until the end of the year . the Liberal Democrats will continue to push the Government to look closely at our proposal to break the link between gas and electricity price , halve household bill within a decade and significantly cut business energy cost over the same period . I would fascinate to hear from the hon . Lady precisely how the energy market can separate gas from electricity price . if she have a plan to do so , it would be lovely to hear it . by break the link between gas and energy , electricity do not need to be sell at the same rate as wholesale gas . we be advocate for a change to the way the market operate . that deserve serious consideration , because currently the current market and the current way it be manage be result in enormous energy bill for both business and household . our party also agree that more must be do to tackle retail crime . shoplift not only cause shop to lose out on sale , with the cost then pass on to pay customer ; it also mean that staff member — often young people — be meet with the possible threat of violence . shoplifting have rise by a staggering 48 % in England and Wales over the past five year , and by an even more horrifying 104 % in London . every time I meet the owner of a local store , I be tell that shoplifting have become effectively decriminalised , as thief do not feel the threat of reprisal . and then there be the impact on price . the Government talk about bring down inflation . one measure that can be take to reduce the cost of everyday good be to tackle the rise in shoplifting . it be incredibly frustrating to I that the Government have not connect the dot between an increase fear of crime and the stripping back of our police force ' ability to do their job . as be so often the case , shop owner be tell by the police that it be not a cost - effective use of their resource to follow up on relatively minor theft . however , to every local business and pay customer , it be . I urge the Government to recognise the detrimental impact that shoplifting be have in our society , and to take this issue seriously . the Liberal Democrats acknowledge that the Government inherit a dire economic landscape from the conservative party . however , 18 month in , I do not believe that business feel that life have be make easy for they . small business be struggle with the cost of do business . they be find it hard to plan around part of the Employment Rights Bill , and they be struggle under the burden of sky - high energy bill and the employer national insurance contribution rise . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give way . I be interested in her acknowledgment that we have make specific progress in deal with the botched Brexit deal leave as part of the legacy of the previous Tory Government , which she may indeed welcome . for example , our sanitary and phytosanitary deal include be able to boost export by slash red tape and bureaucracy specifically for our farmer and food producer , low food price at the checkout and co - operation on energy . [ interruption . ] opposition member may chunter from a sedentary position , but it be actually really important when you look at how — order . the hon . Lady will know that intervention need to be short , and not read off phone . I be , of course , delight that we be make some small progress towards a well relationship with Europe — I welcome that wholeheartedly . however , we could go a lot far . the Liberal Democrats have be push for a UK - EU custom union , which would unlock many , many more benefit , but the Labour Government be very reticent . I welcome some of the noise from both the Treasury Bench and many labour Back Benchers . I find it astonish the number of Labour mp I have encounter over the past couple of week who be suddenly desperate to tell I how very pro - european they have always be . I be very pleased to hear that , but I would say that I have not always hear that from the Labour Benches . but all progress in this area be welcome . I be very grateful to the hon . Lady for give way and I be listen very carefully to what she have to say . one of the more useful thing the Liberal Democrats have do in the past be to support the future high street fund , bring in by the last government , but she have not mention it and neither do the Minister . that be surprising . nearly £ 10 million of future high street funding be give to Old Kent Road in Peckham in her constituency , but she do not mention it . a large sum of money be give to Trowbridge , the county town of Wiltshire , to good effect . what do she think of the fact that the future high street fund have be ditch and replace by something call pride in place , which be a pale reflection of the future high street fund ? would she like to think about include that in her contribution ? I be very grateful to take advice from the right hon . gentleman as to what I should and should not include in my speech . what I would say be that it be always target pot of money for individual place , but we have always advocate for a much more wide - range set of policy that would support all high street wherever they be in the country . the Government must take bold action to boost our economy . we urge Ministers to scrap the national insurance job tax and act with far more urgency on implement the industrial strategy , cut energy bill and strengthen our workforce . we call for bold , more ambitious and fair measure to replace business rate with a fair new system that can boost high street and town centre , and we call on the Government to negotiate a new custom union with the EU , which would cut red tape for small business and supercharge our economy as a whole . this motion be a masterclass in political gaslighting . it claim to support high street , but propose slash public investment , scrap worker ’ right and deregulate the very protection that keep our community safe . it be not really a motion ; it be a demolition notice for our high street and our town centre . neglect , not regulation , be the real threat to our high street . under the previous Tory Government , shoplift rise by 71 % , street theft increase by 59 % , and violence against shop worker hit 2 , 000 incident per day . this be the legacy of the conservative party — a record of abandonment and inaction . the Conservatives let crime spiral and neighbourhood policing collapse . this Labour Government be reverse that damage . through the safe street summer initiative , more than 500 town , include my town of Stevenage , be see a surge in visible policing , target enforcement against shoplifting and antisocial behaviour , and bespoke local action plan to tackle violence against shop worker . this be not a short - term stunt ; it be the first wave of Labour ' s neighbourhood policing guarantee , back by a £ 200 million investment this year alone . this government will deliver 13 , 000 new officer and police community support officer by the end of this Parliament and £ 5 million for our pride in place programme , give community the power to reclaim board - up shop , save derelict pub and block unwanted gambling and vape outlet . this mean boot on the ground — not empty promise — restore safety and confidence to our high street . this motion offer slogan about energy bill , but it be labour that offer systemic reform . we be reform the energy market to make it fair and more transparent for business and accelerate clean , home - grow energy to reduce long - term cost and dependence on volatile fossil fuel market . we be not cap chaos ; we be end it . the opposition attack the Employment Rights Bill — a Bill that ban the fire and rehire practice that cause the exploitation of so many worker under the previous Government , introduce bereavement leave for grieve parent after pregnancy loss , end non - disclosure agreement that silence victim of harassment and discrimination , and lift standard for thousand of my constituent in insecure work . the opposition call it red tape ; I call it basic decency . the Bill will reward decent employer by punish the bad behaviour of other . in their motion , the opposition talk about protect post office , pub and pharmacy , which we all want to do . but how dare they ? how dare they preach about protect post office ? the conservative candidate in a by - election in the Roebuck ward of Stevenage send out leaflet to my constituent falsely insinuate that the local post office be close — this be scaremongere . I check with the post office , and there be no threat of closure . it be part of a national campaign by the Conservatives , tell people , " your local post office be be close , " with no evidence behind it . it be merely a cynical attempt to mislead voter . the previous Conservative Government have a national guarantee of 11 , 500 post office , which this Labour Front Bench have put under review . that mean that there be a threat to post office across this country . that be highlight . if anyone have go far than that about a specific post office , that would obviously be wrong . the truth be that there be a threat to the post office network , and it be one institute by the Labour Front Bench . can the hon . Gentleman at least acknowledge that ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that intervention . the point be that we , as politician , have a duty to explain fact and base our argument on evidence , which be not do in this case . I put it to all politician and would - be politician to base their argument on fact . this motion be a Trojan horse . it dress up deregulation as a gift to our constituent while gutte the very foundation of our high street — fairness and community power . if we accept the premise of this Tory motion , we be no well than a modern - day Troy . labour be rebuild what the Conservatives hollow out of our community : safety , fairness , opportunity and , dare I say it , pride . we be put power back in the hand of local people , bobbie back on the beat and dignity back in the workplace . our high street do not need hollow gesture ; they need real change . only this Labour Government be deliver it . what my hon . friend be say really resonate with I . do he agree that the fact that pride in place be a 10 - year fund allow we to be really strategic about the regeneration of our high street ? instead of they receive bit and bat of money for six month with really tight framework , local people will be empower by the fund to regenerate their own area . my hon . friend be spot on . pride of place be about actually get our local community involve . they know their high street good , and we should work with they to use that money for long - term strategic decision . I oppose this motion . it be illiterate and have no answer for our future , it do not add up economically , and it ignore the good work that this Government be already do for our high street . I be somewhat entertain by the line about Labour be the new Trojans , which I suppose make we the Greeks . it might be worth remember that the Greeks win the war , and that the current Greek Government be generate employment while this government be cut it . while we be tell story , it might also be worth remember that there be some really rather good book out there — none of they write by the Treasury team , it be true . a rather good one come out recently on prosperity for growth , write by Dr Laffer , whose name come up early in the speech of my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , and two member of the other place , Lord Elliott of Mickle Fell and Lord Hintze — I declare an interest , as Lord Elliott ' s daughter be my goddaughter . it be still a good book , despite the fact that there be a connection there . it set out the principle that we all know — a principle that have be know for hundred of year — that taxation deter investment , lack of investment deter growth , and lack of growth deter future opportunity to look after all of we , include , in particular , the poor . what we be see on our high street today be a reflection of that tax policy . we be see the increase ratchet of control — control through regulation , through taxation and through any number of different tool that this Government have bring in . in wonderful town such as Tonbridge , Edenbridge and Borough Green — I be sure you could add a few of your own , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it would be worth say that Portsmouth itself — [ interruption . ] I have get that completely wrong , haven ' t I ? as a point of information , it might help the right hon . Gentleman to know that my constituency be Romsey and Southampton North . this explain why I be never welcome in the Navy . you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that there be many other high street , such as those in Romsey and Southampton , that be do well despite this Government ' s policy . however , we be see a series of change that be cost we all , and I think it be worth focus on a few of they . the first affect retail , hospitality and leisure property , which be see their rate relief reduce to 40 % , and only up to a cash limit of £ 110 , 000 per business . why be that happen ? well , this be basically just another tax grab . it be just another attempt to ensure that those who be work hard to put food on their table — and , by the way , to put food on the table of everybody else in this country by generate that employment — will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I will just finish the point , if I may . while they be work hard to do that , this Government be try to squeeze they . I understand why they be do that , because they have get themselves into a level of debt that be genuinely extraordinary . they be pile it on even more quickly than anybody — will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? if I may , I will just finish my point . they be pile on the debt even more quickly than any other Administration for a long time , with the exception of during covid , when , as member will agree , Labour want to spend even more . that squeeze be hurt business more and more . I know of independent retailer in Tonbridge and Edenbridge that have see 300 % increase in business rate as a result . it be simply not sustainable . we be talk about take money off business before they be able to pay those who be work there 24 / 7 — those who own the business . that charge , that squeeze and that pain be be put on individual who be get up early and try their damnedest to keep their business go . it be completely absurd . the £ 110 , 000 valuation be artificial , because business rate be set by the Valuation Office Agency , and local business have no input . there be no way for decision to be challenge and no real accountability . we be see a Government agency set a valuation that allow taxation to rise with no possibility of appeal . this be simply no way to run an economy . we be see ever - increase centralisation . the correct thing to do would be to allow business to keep some of the money that they be make in order to reinvest in themselves and in staff , and to actually allow council to have some say . if we believe in democracy and in individual have the ability to shape their future , surely we must extend they the right to control how town , village and community across our country tax themselves . sadly , that be not what we be see . we be see what we use to describe as a nation of shopkeeper — that nation that defeat tyranny in Europe not once but many time — become a nation of bookkeeper , all tax by the state . I be glad that the right hon . Gentleman get to his point , kind of . he mention hospitality worker . I be a hospitality worker for many year , so I know how hard work it be . I also know about the people who will benefit on the shop floor from the Government ' s Employment Rights Bill . could the right hon . Gentleman say more about how regulation be supposedly harm worker , because as a former hospitality worker I see the benefit of the Employment Rights Bill for all my former colleague . I would be delighted to , because direct comparison can be draw with other country that have extend these same rule . they protect the worker who be in the job — that be absolutely true — but they dissuade anybody else from join and start as a new hire . then those country see exactly what we be see in the UK today : grow youth unemployment . when there be a burden on a business that make it hard to change its employment structure , it simply delay employment . that be all that happen . I thank the right hon . member for his generosity in give way , because I be find this debate very interesting . in the rural area of my constituency , business be struggle to hire worker not because of the cost but because local worker can not afford to live in those area because there be no affordable housing . do the right hon . Member agree that it be very welcome that the Government be focus on the practicality that ordinary worker need in order to be employ , which will help rural business like those in my area that be struggle to recruit ? forgive I , but I do not agree . I can see that transport connection and the £ 2 bus link — which have now go up by 50 % under this government — be crucial to help small business survive in rural area , but business that be take in young people as new starter be not hire they because of cost . the cost of any change that may be need in the business , which may evolve or shape itself differently , mean that effectively it be not worth the risk . we see this again and again . the tragedy be that I be not tell this House anything new . this speech could have be give anytime in the past 50 year . the reality be that we have try all these experiment , and we know how they work : they end up with rise unemployment , rise debt burden and few public service . we know where this go . the real problem in all this be that the Government impose a national insurance increase on business . the second problem be what they have do for business that might have take on new starter by lower that threshold . it have be an absolute killer on both count for business , so there be a reason why they be not take on new starter at the moment . my right hon . friend be absolutely right . that be the reality of what this Government have do . I understand that they have decide to defend the establish strength of unionised and employ worker . I get it , but they have choose specifically to punish incoming worker , young people and those who be try to enter the labour market . that be the choice they have make . they have also choose to defend established business — those business that can pay a large amount for human resource function — rather than the small business that innovate and start up . again , that be a choice that they have make , and let we not ignore the fact that it be a choice . they have choose the large company , the institution , the establish worker , and they have decide to punish the high street . rise — Order . I be go to reduce the time limit to five minute , start after Jim McMahon . Oldham have always be a town of hard work and heart . it have be build , rebuild and reinvent time and again , and be reinvent itself again now , but let we be honest : the challenge face Oldham , Chadderton , Royton and town like they up and down the country be significant . it have be interesting to hear the debate . we can all as parliamentarian reflect on just how much we care about the place we live in and represent , and that should be laud . we have also hear honesty about the fact that much more should have be do in the past than be , and much more need to be do than perhaps be be do . the pace have to be improve . I should say that I have every faith that the Government and the Minister will do just that . we understand the power and importance of place . our high street and town centre be , for many people , the barometer of how well the country be do . when I look at Chadderton , I see a fantastic place . I see a stable community that have terrific community pride , but it be a town without a single bank branch . it have see very little new development , and quite a lot of the land that be ripe for development be hold in private ownership by distant landowner who have no stake in the local community . in Royton — another a thrive town , just a couple of mile away — not a single bank be leave in the town centre or the precinct , yet there be shoot of growth . the council invest in Royton town hall . new independent bar and restaurant be bring life back into the centre , and a Thursday market be still thrive . that show that when we support local business , the community respond with footfall and support . by the way , I think we too often take for grant and underestimate the importance of our local market , whether they be indoor or outdoor . then there be Oldham itself — our borough ' s heart — once home to a magistrate court , a county court , and many public sector agency that have either reduce their presence or close altogether . store such as Debenhams , BHS , HMV , Woolworths , H & M , Thorntons , WH Smith and Clintons be the anchor of the town centre and the shopping centre in the past , but unfortunately will not be in the future . across the country , there be 20 , 000 few shop open than in 2010 . each closure be more than just a lost business . it be a small part of the town take away . it be people ' s job and livelihood . it be the story of a place , and people ' s memory ; we have hear that in the debate . across the country , we see 6 , 000 bank close . in my town , RBS and Barclays be close , but we still have bank . it be really important that the Government ' s strategy for investment , planning reform , and scheme such as Community Britain , which give community power in the place where they live , do not allow the kind of free - for - all that we see under the previous Government . under the previous Government , bank be at the Government ' s door when they need a bail - out and time be bad , but walk away from our community when it be time to repay money . the hon . Member make a good point about bank closure . do he agree that the innovation of banking hub , which we have see since 2022 , be welcome ? as of April this year , there be 150 around the country , and they can be a lifeline for many community . do he agree that the criterion apply by Cash Access UK for grant a banking hub can be quite narrow ? I ask this for the Minister ' s benefit . would the hon . member join I in urge the Government to reconsider and review some of the narrow criterion ? in Portchester , we be campaign for a banking hub — order . Jim McMahon to continue . I will . I have hear the right hon . and learn Lady raise that point a few time , and I think it be legitimate . if the criterion do not work for the town she mention , or for my town , or Royton or Chadderton , then the criterion be the problem , not the town and community that need bank . we can agree on that . in Oldham , there be progress . sometimes we rush to a deficit model of talk down our place a bit too quickly . the old town hall , build in 1841 , be leave derelict for decade but have be reborn as a cinema . the grand Egyptian Room have be restore to life . it be once a banking hall where people pay their council tax , but I guarantee that it be a lot more popular today than it be when it be use for that purpose . the old library , build in 1883 , be long empty ; it be now home to the new council chamber and the inspire Oldham theatre workshop . every single week , 600 young people go through those door to celebrate the art and culture . the Spindles shopping centre have be transform with the new indoor Tommyfield market , an event space and the local study archive . that show how the community can benefit when we invest in our town . of course , as have be mention , we should use derelict brownfield site to build housing for local people . in Oldham , that will mean up to 2 , 000 new home in the town centre — decent , safe and affordable place to live — and footfall in the town . much though we talk about the household name that have be lose , let we not forget that many of our town be build on the work of independent trader — local people who give something of themselves , and sometimes their life saving , to invest in our town . they should be celebrate . thing be not easy . online retail now account for 25 % of retail sale . business rate change will shift the balance in favour of the on - street , local , independent trader , and convenience store . there be also the change dynamic between out - of - town retail and city centre . we have the benefit of be on Manchester ' s doorstep , but it mean that it be easy for Oldham ' s people to travel to Manchester . in large town , we have see the hyper - local become more popular . district centre like Royton , where people want to create somewhere to go , be thrive , and our city be thrive , but the town , somewhere in the middle , be struggle . we need a strategy for our town , as well as wide investment . the same go for the planning system . honestly , I be sick to death of see low - quality , substandard accommodation be build in my town . under the previous Government ' s free - for - all , office accommodation could be convert in a blink , and there be also conversion to house in multiple occupation . the concentration of social pressure in town centre and district centre be have a real impact on community safety and the local housing market . there be a different way . through Community Britain , we can rebuild our town , civic pride and confidence . through co - operation , we can give power to people in the place where they live and that they care about . we can end the top - down model of command and control , in which we tell people what they need for their area . we should give money to community , so that they can decide matter for themselves and collectively co - produce solution for their place . every MP in this place think that they have the good constituency in the United Kingdom , but I be afraid that only one of we can be correct . perhaps with the exception of Romsey and Southampton North , Madam Deputy Speaker , the good constituency must be Windsor , with its beautiful town and village . as well as our green space , include the Great Park , which have be in the news slightly more than we might like of late , and our heritage , we also have our high street , our small business and our hospitality crown jewel , which range from Ascot racecourse , Royal Windsor racecourse and Legoland to small attraction , such as the Windsor Museum , French Brothers boat trip along the Thames , and Windsor Carriages . because of the Windsor constituency ' s exceptional feature , it have some of the great high street anywhere in the country . our hospitality business turn over £ 600 million every year — one of the high figure outside London — and the industry employ over 10 , 000 people locally . a huge part of that be down to tourism . People come from all over the world to walk through our town , and to enjoy refreshment after explore Windsor castle or work up a thirst on a long walk . the most recent statistic from the excellent Visit Windsor team highlight that 12 . 2 % of the borough ' s population be employ as a result of tourism . it be no surprise that one in 10 people in Windsor rely on the industry to make a living . there be a whole ecosystem of retail , hospitality and hotel that make up the economic background of my town . all that stimulate the brilliant high street and venue that make up our town and village . they be the subject of the debate , and I be afraid that all of they be feel the pinch under this Labour Government . my constituency go well beyond its namesake town . that be evidence in my most recent " good pub " competition . over 32 pub be put forward from across the constituency , and hundred of my constituent vote . it be only right to give special mention to the winner , the Swan in Clewer village , which be a great example of a community - lead pub . I will not have time to talk about everything that make the Swan special , but it have the Green Room school for special need pupil , the Windsor cycle hub , a " chatter and natter " to tackle loneliness and social isolation , board game , the Stitch Gang for knitter , and a dog walker ' group . however , the landlord , Mickey Foden - Andrews , whom I have meet multiple time , stress that while the Swan be well love and use by the whole community , it be feel all the pressure on our treasured pub industry , include from increase vat , beer duty , business rate and now the extend producer responsibility tax . I be sure that we have all be guilty of complain about the cost of a pint , but we must recognise the huge overhead that pub face just to keep their door open , which include pay their staff , soar electricity price and alcohol duty . the increase in national insurance in last year ' s Budget compound all those pressure and hit the hospitality sector hard . the sector have suffer more than half — 85 , 000 — of all british job loss since the last Budget . pub like the Swan provide a public service by bring people together , let neighbour check in on one another , host event and be a place to hash out idea or discuss the politic of the day . on all my visit to pub , hospitality and other high - street business , I hear that they be struggle , and Windsor be a relatively prosperous place with a clear unique selling point , so I be sure that such business will be struggle everywhere . that should come as no surprise . the increase in the minimum wage and national insurance , and the so - call new worker ’ right that be be bring in , be all incompatible with thrive high street . the hon . Member be talk passionately and make many point that I agree with , but which constituent would he tell that they will not get that rise in the minimum wage ? will he tell his constituent that he oppose their get that rise ? the point be well make by my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) that there be people who benefit from the minimum wage and new right , but thousand of job will never exist as a result of the measure . we have to be cognisant of that in this House . all those measure be incompatible with a thriving high street and any aspiration to bring down welfare spending , as they be all job killer . we should be mindful that the last Labour Government , though they do not mean any ill , increase youth unemployment by 45 % . that be the bad time for unemployment in life ; at that point in life , it have a long - term , scar , negative effect on people ' s outcome and opportunity , but the Government be do the same again in the name of protect worker . the people on the outside be the one who pay the price . my right hon . friend be right , as always . the good way to back worker in this country be to back our small business , and our hospitality business in particular , which provide so many job to our constituent . nearly 100 , 000 job have be lose in hospitality since the last Budget . do the hon . Member agree that if that number of job have be lose in the steel industry or a car plant , it would have be front - page news day after day for week on end ? yet almost nothing be say about the job lose in hospitality , because they be disperse right across the country , so they be almost invisible . actually , an enormous number of job have be lose . I absolutely agree . it go beyond that , because a lot of hospitality job be the first job that people do . we talk about youth unemployment ; we need to get people into the pattern of earn a living , and to enable they to gain the soft skill of serve customer and get up on time . as we all know , that be so important to young people ' s development . that be a problem not only now but for the future . what do my landlord , hotel manager and business on the high street tell I their big problem be ? business rate . that be why I welcome my party ' s commitment to permanently scrap business rate for all retail , leisure and hospitality business up to a £ 110 , 000 cap . will the hon . member give way ? I be afraid that I do not have time . that would lift 250 , 000 business out of business rate altogether , and it would provide essential relief to keep business afloat and money flow through the local economy . the proposal be fully cost and follow our new golden economic rule . our high street be the heart of our community . they be where people meet , where local pride grow and where livelihood be make . high street have certainly struggle over the last decade , with vacant property , antisocial behaviour and concern about the impact of densely populate hmo . I be certain that there will be further discussion on this matter today , and rightly so , because we must help our high street to regain that buzz and splendour — they must once again become that hive of activity — that people associate with community shopping area and place of the past . this Government have a huge role to play in make that happen and we have commit to support the injection of renew life into our high street . today I want to use my time , as other have do , to talk up our high street — the remarkable staff , the shopkeeper , the landlord and landlady , and the volunteer — and to highlight the great work do by local business in my constituency . I want to show just how much our resident need to come out to our high street in order to support our local economy and to experience the great thing on offer . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech and show himself to be a true champion for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme . do he agree that we all ought to talk up our high street ? there be a danger that some on the conservative Benches be fail to see that , and they be do real damage to small business . I could not agree more . we must be ambassador and advocate for the wonderful innovation , ingenuity and entrepreneurship that business owner show along our high street . I also want to show today area that the Government be already help to revitalise , so I be go to take hon . member on a small tour of place in my constituency : a Doncaster East and Isle of Axholme Monopoly tour . in Epworth , you will find a wonderful and diverse array of independent shop — Hatty ' s Tea Room , the Cosy Cake Shop , Godiva Hair Loss and Wig Specialists , and Imelda ' s — bring people into the centre and support local job . in Crowle , Elizabeth Kate Bridal and Sadie ' s Tea Room on the high street show how specialist independent and long - stand family business can thrive side by side . Haxey have long benefit from a community of traditional pub that help keep the historic Haxey Hood alive ; in fact , the Kings arm have just unveil a mural of the hood that many people come to see . in Rossington , Death by Fudge have grow from a kitchen idea into a much love shop , prove that when small business find the right high street home , they thrive — and I can tell you , Madam Deputy Speaker , there be definitely bad way to go than death by Kinder . on a Friday , the Rossington market , straight opposite Death by Fudge , be always open and welcome to resident . this weekend I look forward to pop into the newly open Thorne Park Caf é . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) mention shoplifting . it be hugely commendable how the shopkeeper in Thorne have come together . a great example be the Shop Watch scheme — a partnership between retailer and the neighbourhood police team that be cut retail crime and give shopkeeper the confidence to trade . report show a 34 % fall in shoplifting since the scheme start , with repeat offender bring to justice . that be the kind of common - sense collaboration that keep our high street safe and welcome for shopper . on the issue of shoplifting , do my hon . friend agree that the Tories be have a bad day with their memory ? not only have they forget that next to my seat of Southampton Itchen be Madam Deputy Speaker ' s equally fine seat of Romsey and Southampton North , where twice I fail to persuade the people to vote for I ; they be also forget what happen on their watch . they give shoplifter a £ 200 free pass , which have bring violence and intimidation to our street ; that be in contrast with our plan to put more police back on the beat and get rid of that free pass . do my hon . friend agree that that be the kind of change that Labour be make to my constituency and to his ? that be 100 % the kind of change that a Labour Government make to our high street . in Bawtry , our trader have be fly the flag for our area at No . 11 , engage directly with the Chancellor on how small firm power local growth . that connection matter because it be about national decision that be ground in the reality of our market town . where else can you visit the China Rose for an amazing chinese banquet at a 40 - year - young family - run business while listen to a little bit of Dolly Parton ? but if you do visit , check out the website first , because the restaurant be not only open 9 to 5 ! at the Crown Hotel , you can have a coffee on a Sunday next to a saxophonist — that be not easy to say after a few beer , so stick to the coffee ! and in Hatfield , independent like Kayna ' s , 4 on the High Street and Ju Belle show what local enterprise can achieve . committed owner and real community spirit be keep our high street vibrant and resilient , and it be not just business but commit local volunteer who be make their community well place to live — people like Leah Richmond in Lindholme , who have lead a scheme to turn a traditional phone box into a mini library on the high street . this Labour Government be match that local energy with national action . we will invest £ 20 million in Rossington through the pride in place programme , allow the neighbourhood to take charge of regeneration , revive the high street and renew our park and public space . in Moorends , we have put levelling - up funding secure by my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) and myself to good use , turn plan into project that people can see and use , improve facility for sport , family and community group , and help to unlock pride and opportunity . part of that come through investment in shop frontage area to ensure that the environment be as wonderful and welcome outside as the shop be inside — shop like Chris Huby Butchers , where I often go to buy mum her corn beef and spam of a weekend . we will give our community new power to buy back beloved asset , use compulsory purchase to tackle long - term shop vacancy , and block the clustering of unwanted outlet where they undermine the character and safety of the high street . for large , empty site , those power will help to bring forward new health facility and housing where appropriate . we be also back business by cut red tape by 25 % , free up time and money for owner to grow . I pay tribute to the shopkeeper , market trader and small business owner across Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme . let I finish by extend an invite : come and visit the high street in my constituency — spend your money in our shop , enjoy yourself , and delight in everything that Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme have to offer . our high street be not just place to shop ; they be the heart of our community . yet every business I speak to in Bognor Regis and Littlehampton tell I the same thing : they be unsure if they can survive another year of this Labour Government . family be under pressure too , worried about keep their job , pay their mortgage and afford the food shop . they be rein in spending : few coffee or pint , few meal out and few day out in venue like the brilliant Harbour Park in Littlehampton . last Friday , I sit down with the owner of Richard Pearce Hairdressing in Aldwick . he have work for year to train the next generation , give young people their start in life , but the constant hammering on his overhead be relentless . he tell I that the current Government have lose all touch with local business and the impact of their policy . under Labour : employer national insurance — up ; cost of hire — up ; and energy bill — up . let we be clear about what be drive this . first , it be business rate . for shop , caf é s and pub , like the William Hardwicke in Bognor Regis and the Beresford in Middleton - on - Sea , business rate be a tax on just show up . they punish the visible , but leave online giant untouched . the Conservatives would abolish business rate for retail , hospitality and leisure ; labour will not . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be go to keep make some progress . secondly , let I turn to energy cost . too many small business be pay bill far higher than they be just a few year ago . green levy be a political choice and the result of the Government ' s ideological pursuit of net zero by 2030 . while big manufacturer get relief , high street be foot the bill . the third factor be retail crime . there be more shoplifting and more harassment , leave more staff feel unsafe at work . behind every incident — like Clarkes Estates in Bognor Regis have its window smash — be a real cost to the bottom line in steal stock , lose hour and rise insurance . we have plan to crack down on retail crime with tough penalty and real consequence . finally , there be the family business tax and the Employment Rights Bill that will come back before the House tomorrow . these place unfair cost and uncertainty on the very employer , like Reynolds Furniture in Bognor Regis , that hold our high street together . they be already under pressure , and we should be help those who create job , not frighten they off . yes , of course , worker must be protect , but those protection must not undermine the small business that provide the job in the first place . today I join my right hon . friend the Leader of the Opposition in urge Ministers to abolish business rate for retail , hospitality and leisure , to cut energy bill for all small business , to tackle retail crime with tough consequence , and to scrap the unemployment right Bill . do these thing and we can begin to restore confidence in high street . fail to do they and we will watch shutter fall , more shop disappear and more community lose the place that make they feel like home . the subject of high street be one that matter deeply in constituency like Crewe and Nantwich , where the story of decline be slowly but surely be rewrite into one of renewal . for too long , our high street be leave behind . fourteen year of conservative government see project stall , shopfront shutter and absentee landlord allow to hold back regeneration . in Crewe , the fail Royal Arcade redevelopment become the symbol of that neglect . shop be demolish as part of a regeneration scheme , only for inflation , particularly construction inflation , to soar through the ceiling as a result of Liz Truss ' s mini - budget — [ interruption . ] this mean that the project fail and in Crewe we have be leave with a wasteland . every time we mention the name Liz Truss , we hear groan from the Conservatives Benches , but I be not sure that people in my constituency really want to hear those groan , give that their mortgage and rent have go through the roof and that business be unable to borrow . my hon . friend be absolutely right . conservative Members do not like it , but what I be articulate be the lived reality of my constituent and the impact of the Conservatives ' record on the economy while in government . the failure to tackle the root cause of decline be compound by economic mismanagement that drive up construction cost and by the devastating loss of hs2 , but I be pleased to report that Crewe be turn a corner . we be see real investment , real ambition and real pride return to our town centre , and that transformation be visible . it be be lead by local leader , our community and our entrepreneur , back by the economic stability that this Labour Government be deliver . the Crewe market hall , for example , have be reborn . it be now a thriving hub of food , drink and entertainment . the Lyceum theatre , a jewel in our town , be now join by the Lyceum Square , a modern development that complement its historic charm . together , they anchor a grow cultural quarter , and that quarter be expand . the former Dorothy Perkins and Burton unit on Market Street , once another empty shell and blight on the high street , now host Crewe Creates — a vibrant space for art and culture . this show what can happen when creativity meet opportunity . my hon . friend be make an excellent point about the importance of art and culture in town centre , and of restore and reclaim historic building to bring a sense of place , to help small trader to flourish , and to bring art activity to the public and footfall into our town centre . I would commend the work do by read borough council to create a similar hub in read town centre . I really hope that my hon . friend continue with his great work . my hon . friend be absolutely right about restore old building , and that be exactly what be take place in Crewe . alongside this , a rolling programme of cultural event from Crewe town council and the Crewe business improvement district be help to make our town an early contender for this Government ' s first town of culture award . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be go to make some progress . opportunity be exactly what the repurpose the high street grant deliver by our Labour council in Cheshire East have deliver . these be £ 30 , 000 grant for local entrepreneur to renovate empty shop unit , and they have empower small and independent business to take risk , fill empty unit and breathe new life into our town centre . they have transform vacant space into thriving venture , and I invite Ministers to come to Crewe to see the impact for themselves and to consider whether the scheme could be a blueprint for a national roll - out , because it work . the scheme , alongside the Southern Gateway project , be a great example of public investment connect the dot , create vibrant public space and open up opportunity for a new community of business to emerge on our once - neglect high street . business such as the Arena , the Ice and Fire tattoo studio and ABC Childcare be lead the way , and the upcoming Youth Zone , open in spring 2026 , will give young people a space to thrive right in the heart of our town centre . even the old M & S unit , long a symbol of stagnation , now have a positive future under new ownership . it be a powerful metaphor for Crewe itself : write off by some but now ready to rise . we have see investment in place such as the Mirion Street boxing club , support grassroots sport and building community resilience . these be the building block of a high street that work for everyone . this be what happen when local leadership , community , ambition and target investment come together , rather than when we talk our community down , as we have hear too often from Conservative Members . so I say to investor : come to Crewe . I say to artist and entrepreneur : come to Crewe . I say to Government Ministers : come and see what happen when a town refuse to be leave behind . as with our railway past , Crewe town centre be on the right track . for decade , high street have be more than a place to shop . they be a barometer of the economic and social vitality of the country and of the community where they be locate . they be a gauge of whether we be prosper or decline . they be the sweet spot on the Venn diagram of societal indicator and policy area include economic confidence , aspiration , entrepreneurship , crime and confidence in policing , the prominence of institution , the quality of the public realm and change social habit . today , however , high street across the country face existential threat from unaffordable cost , dwindle footfall , surge illicit activity and a loss of purpose . I know that that sentiment be not just mine ; it be share by many . an August 2025 ukhospitality survey reveal that 42 % of people nationwide believe that their high street be bad than it be a year ago , with that statistic rise to 55 % in suburban area . high street be the cornerstone of british history . their decline be not just economic ; it be cultural . their disappearance be a stark signal that the identity of many community be also change and , in many case , erode . in 2024 , an average of 38 shop or store close every single day , with independent retailer account for 85 % of those closure . we be allow our proudly own family - run shop and ambitious independent to be replace by a sea of cheap e - vape outlet , barber , charity shop and unregulated aesthetic clinic , many of which be link to the black market . so much of this debate focus on high street under a magnifying glass . in my constituency , one in five people work in the retail or wholesale sector . do the hon . Gentleman agree that if our shop front be a factory or a shipyard , the Government would be frame the challenge very differently ? I agree with the hon . member . early , the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) make the point that because the loss in retail be disperse thinly across the country , this erosion take place in plain sight , but if the same thing be happen in an industry with a collective centre in one location , it would probably be view differently . our town centre need essential service such as bank hub to compensate for the decrease in bank branch between 2010 and 2023 , so that people of all generation can manage their finance . we need the heart of our city , town and village to be restore and to thrive once again . let we look at the environment in which business be operate . national insurance change hit sector hard last year , and those that provide accessible career , include hospitality , be hit hard . employer have to pay thousand of pound more just to recruit people compare with a year and a half ago , and hospitality have see job loss at the expense of some of the low pay in society , who have be unable to get a foot on the employment ladder . we know the economy be underperform , and there be tax hike of £ 40 billion in the Budget last year . the Chancellor promise that last year ' s Budget be a one - off hit of a kind that would not be replicate again in this Parliament , yet the Government be face the reality of their own choice , and their economic naivet é play out once again . a typical pub in my constituency pay £ 2 , 000 per month in additional cost , include hike business rate , employment cost and , crucially , energy cost compare with this time last year . to put that into perspective , if a couple go to a pub and spend £ 80 on dinner and drink , that pub would have to serve an extra 25 such booking each month just to cover those additional cost . that be staggering . I speak to so many publican and hospitality operator in my patch who tell I that next year be the critical year when they will have to decide whether to close their door for good . they be literally on the brink and question their own survival . there be other point that I want the Government to focus on and the Minister to address , particularly around the public realm . I would like the Government to focus acutely on how we can revitalise the quality of our public realm . that include design code , which should be mandatory for all local authority . one of this Government ' s first act last year be to abandon the need for beautiful design as part of the national planning policy framework and to close the Office for Place . that be important , because if the quality of the public realm decay , our town centre will not be as attractive as they might otherwise be for private sector investment . with the closure of prominent bank on the high street , large historic building , which be often anchor point , fall into disarray and it be much hard to get occupant . that be why I be pleased to support the conservative proposal to abolish business rate for pub , shop and hospitality . that would be a real shot in the arm for high street up and down the country . I be conscious of time , but I would like to touch on one other point that have not yet be mention , relate to the role that local council can play . local council be great at kickstarte local economic activity , but for they to be empower to act as catalyst in their local area , we need to address the elephant in the room that be adult social care . while the Government focus on local government reorganisation , I implore they to think about that . the hon . member for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) shake his head , but the reality be — I welcome the hon . member ' s new interest in adult social care . the Dilnot report be deliver in 2011 . what be the Conservatives do for the subsequent 13 year while they be in government and not deliver meaningful change to social care ? that be a bit of a cheap jibe . if the hon . member take a look through Hansard , he will realise that I have take an interest in social care for some time . the reality be that council across the country spend circa £ 7 out of every £ 10 on social care . it be important that society spend money on social care , but while the Government focus on local government reorganisation and social care continue to be a huge financial obligation for local authority , less money can be spend on the public realm . we have to address that . we must address the long - term positioning of social care , where it be fund , and from which pot , in order to support council and give they the good possible foundation for address the economic need of their area . I be delighted to take this opportunity to speak about Longton — a beloved town centre in my constituency that be very much on the up . I be excited that the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , who be not in her place , have offer to visit . I be sure that she will be excited to find out about the wonderful work happen in Longton . there be a real sense of momentum in Longton right now , and a grow confidence and pride in what the town have to offer . much of that be thank to the brilliant , award - win team at our busy shopping centre Longton Exchange , lead by Chris Ward , which be do so much to breathe new life into the town centre . its commitment have help to support trader , attract new business and bring fresh energy to the heart of the community . the high street be absolutely the heart of Longton . it be where community life happen — where people bump into friend , visit our beautiful victorian market , grab a coffee or pop into one of our many brilliant independent shop . when the high street thrive , everything else follow , and we be see that now with business like Kiln at Number 12 , so Very Dog and the wonderful Crumbs bakery , which win the " win a Shop " competition and have set up its brilliant new bakery in the exchange . Longton have always be a creative town . from the world - renowne Belstaff , whose clothe be sell right across the globe , to the Gladstone pottery museum , home to " the Great Pottery throw down " , creativity be in our dna . that spirit be alive and well today thank to group such as Urban Wilderness , which keep art and imagination at the heart of the town . its famous pig walk bring thousand of people to Longton every year — that magic footfall — as a joyful celebration of community and creativity that show what be possible when people come together . its passion for ground - up community leadership , host the Longton town forum to bring together local business and resident , be vital for the future of our town , and I support it in its aim to turn the old bank into a fabulous art centre . we also have the fantastic Sheila Cowell and her team at the Longton community partnership , continue to bring resident together and make Longton bloom . we also see a real focus on support the next generation . Launch it , in our renovated town hall , do brilliant work help young entrepreneur turn their idea into real business , give they the confidence and practical support to get start . tangible investment be start to flow into the town , show the difference that a Labour Government work with a Labour council make . stoke - on - Trent city council ' s ongoing public realm work be help to make Longton more welcoming , accessible and well connect , especially around the high street and market area . with £ 1 . 5 million of pride in place funding be roll out in Stoke - on - Trent thank to this Labour Government , I will be work hard to ensure that Longton get its fair share . that funding need to build on the progress that be already be make locally , ensure that my constituent ' priority be reflect and act on . it would be remiss of I not to mention Meir North and the £ 20 million of pride in place fund for that area . Meir North also have its high street , and I promise the resident there that , along with their councillor Lauren Davison , we will deliver on their ask to make it a safe and secure high street on Weston Road . all that sit alongside the Labour Government ' s wide commitment to invest in our high street , restore pride and prosperity to town that have in the past be overlook . with new community right to buy , compulsory purchase power , lower business rate and support for more neighbourhood policing , I be confident that the Government will ensure that Longton continue to have a strong local centre — somewhere that reflect its identity , support small business and bring people together . of course , there be still challenge . the much - love Crown Works stand as a reminder of Longton ' s industrial past and its potential for renewal . its long - await regeneration into housing be something the community be eager to see finally deliver . we must confront the problem that have blight our high street , such as fire in old , neglect building and too many empty property leave to decay . those issue can not be ignore , and absent landlord must be hold to account . our town deserve well than to have its heritage and future put at risk . despite those many challenge , the people remain resilient , creative and proud . that be why I be lead a preliminary Longton town centre masterplan , ensure that business and customer have a say in how their town centre be regenerate for they , by they and with they . I have run out of time , but I have every confidence that Longton ' s good day be ahead . Britain ' s high street be the beat heart of our community . they serve as social hub , cultural landmark and vital source of job and prosperity . yet in my constituency , as in the rest of the country , our high street be under immense pressure . local resident be concerned when they see empty shopfront in the town centre and in our local shopping centre . as we know , the growth of online shopping have change the culture of retail , and that trend have only worsen as a result of the pandemic . accord to Eastleigh business improvement district , footfall in Eastleigh town centre be 56 % below pre - pandemic figure , which show the depth of the decline that our high street have face . cut to local bus service by Conservative - control Hampshire county council have leave many resident without bus service . the impact on our high street have be an afterthought for the county council , and our local business be start to feel it . it be not just decline footfall hurt our local business ; there be also the grow threat of retail crime . accord to the Office for National Statistics , shoplift increase by 13 % in the year end June 2025 . I recently meet a local retailer who have be the victim of shoplift and lose thousand of pound - worth of stock . we have all hear story of staff member at retail shop be subject to verbal abuse . the Government must tackle that issue head - on and with more urgency . we need a return to proper community police to deal with that type of crime , which be why I have long campaign for the reopening of Eastleigh police station . pub — of which there be 32 in my constituency — be perhaps the great symbol of our high street . they be vital social gathering hub for people to come together and feel part of their community . accord to the british Beer and Pub Association , increase in cost after last year ' s Budget mean that pub now face a 9p loss per pint unless they raise price by 21p . if the Government continue on this path , we risk lose the very pub that enrich our high street . the Loft bar in Street — a locally own and run business — contribute so much to the social fabric of the town but have be cripple by business rate and rocket utility and national insurance cost . do my hon . friend agree that we must support the hospitality sector , through the fundamental reform of business rate , so that it can thrive ? my hon . friend make an excellent point , which I will address shortly . independent business face an incredibly tough environment . the reduction in retail , hospitality and leisure relief from 75 % to 40 % effectively leave small business subsidise large chain . we be incredibly lucky to have many thriving independent business in Eastleigh , include AC Models , o ' Briens , Artisan , the Coffee Cabin and Choices sandwich . my constituent David , who be the owner of Steam Town Brew Co . , tell I that high staffing cost be hit his business hard . the employer national insurance contribution increase disincentivise business from invest in local job . I have also speak with local hairdresser , include Jemma from Jemma George Hair Artistry and Jane from Elite Salon in Chandler ' s Ford , about the challenge they be face . they be worried about structural flaw in the vat system for labour - intensive business , challenge to the employer model within the industry , and the linger impact of the covid pandemic . those small business enrich our high street , but they be have to fight so hard and work incredibly long hour to make themselves viable . we should be celebrate entrepreneurship , not put more roadblock in their way . the previous Government leave business rate unreforme , negotiate a disastrous Brexit deal , and oversee a massive spiral in energy cost , rent and interest rate , all of which pile incredible pressure on high street business . so many of the challenge that those business be face have be cause by policy choice make over the past decade . for all of the Reform party ' s showboating , we have see no coherent plan from it . indeed , its member have not even bother to show up to this debate . the Liberal Democrats be call for business rate to be replace with a commercial landowner levy , so that we tax the land value , not the productive investment . that would give struggle high street the breathing space that they desperately need . it be wrong that household and high street be be punish while big bank , gambling company and social medium giant get away without pay their fair share . we must shift the tax burden away from small and medium - sized business and on to those with the broad shoulder . our community deserve well than short - term stunt and uncosted Tory headline . they deserve a long - term plan to revive our high street , restore pride in our town and put small business at the centre of Britain ' s economic recovery . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate for the very simple reason that my first job be on the high street in the town centre , in Weymouth , where I grow up . I do not like to talk about it too often , but it be at the particularly popular and well - love fish and chip shop , the Marlboro . it be clear to I that the high street in Weymouth have struggle in the time since then . a lot of the challenge face the high street begin before the covid pandemic . it be right to acknowledge the pandemic ' s devastating impact on high street , but much of the damage be deliver before it , by the previous Conservative Government . if the House will indulge I , I will set out in a little more detail exactly how I feel we can revitalise our high street , especially in Weymouth town centre and on Portland . first , the Weymouth Museum Trust receive over £ 40 , 000 of new funding in September , pave the way for it to be able to maintain a temporary pop - up museum in Weymouth town centre . I be grateful that the Labour Government choose to invest in Weymouth museum , which be a fantastic hub that celebrate our history and heritage , showcase everything that be special about our town . however , that funding be just a short - term solution . we urgently need to move Weymouth museum back into Brewers Quay in the heart of Weymouth — a much more suitable permanent home for it . I look forward to work closely with the developer , Dorset council , local business , the museum trust and , of course , the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , to do just that . I know that we can return the museum to Brewers Quay . it be clear that , if we want to revitalise our high street , include in Weymouth , we need effective partnership between business , charity , the council and national Government in back our local museum . do my hon . friend agree that increase accessibility for people with disability be a crucial aspect of town centre regeneration that would unlock the power of the purple pound ? if we make the high street accessible for disabled people , we make it accessible for everyone . my hon . friend make a valuable point . make place in the town centre accessible — be they local museum or other institution — be essential to make they a success . I know that Ministers understand the importance of support heritage and our local museum , so I look forward to work closely with they and crack on with the important work of restore Weymouth museum at Brewers Quay . secondly , I have be work closely with Treasury Ministers finally to deliver a world - class attraction in Eden Portland — or MEMO Portland , as it be officially know . that project have be in the pipeline for many year — successive Conservative Ministers unfortunately fail to recognise its huge potential — and it could breathe new life into the economy on Portland . if deliver , the project could boost Portland ' s small business , attract new visitor to the island , secure well - pay job and create a truly unique attraction that celebrate our Jurassic coast and educate visitor about biodiversity . it be clear that Eden Portland could be a significant anchor institution , attract new visitor not just to Portland but to the whole of Dorset . the brilliant Eden Project down in Cornwall be a proven success story , so I be eager to see the Eden Portland proposal deliver so that we can realise similar benefit in my part of the world . local business across Weymouth and Portland tell I time and again that Eden Portland could create a year - round visitor economy , mean that shop , caf é s , pub , hotel and restaurant feel the benefit of increase visitor number outside the summer season and school holiday . if build , Eden Portland can be the anchor institution that we desperately need in Weymouth and Portland , deliver year - round benefit to the local economy . I will continue to do everything I can , work alongside the Treasury , to secure the funding need finally to deliver that exciting project as soon as possible . I look forward to work with this Labour Government to finally deliver a Weymouth cultural and visitor centre at the Old Rectory building . year of under - investment in Weymouth by the previous Conservative Government mean that we have never have a dedicated venue to showcase art , music and culture . we urgently need a stand - alone space in our vibrant town to do just that . if open , this centre would be a landmark venue offer a year - round programme of exhibition , performance and community and educational event . if you have be to Dorset , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will know that there be so many successful artist , musician , photographer and creative who all richly deserve a venue like this in Weymouth . many other seaside town have celebrate and leant into an art and culture offering . as a frequent visitor to Weymouth , I have see the dog - friendly sticker scheme in the business on the high street . do the hon . Member agree that make high street business dog - friendly help to increase their profit ? it have certainly cost I a bob or two when I have go into shop that allow I to take my dog in with I . I thank the hon . member for his custom and for invest in Weymouth . as the proud owner of a Newfoundland , I know that dog get we out , get we spending and get we on the high street . to conclude , town like Margate , Folkestone and Falmouth have champion art and culture , and it have boost the high street and draw visitor into those seaside town . I now want to see the same happen in Weymouth . unsurprisingly , I will be bang the drum for a new cultural and visitor centre at the Rectory building in Weymouth . this project be just another way that we can breathe new life into Weymouth ' s town centre and attract new business and visitor to our town . as I have hopefully make clear today , there be so many exciting project on the card . I have listen to the hon . member ' s speech very carefully , but I think I miss he mention the £ 19 . 5 million of levelling - up funding that Weymouth get in 2023 under the last Conservative Government . that money go unspent by the previous conservative administration at Dorset council . it now fall to I and the new administration at Dorset council to spend that money wisely , which we be do . I remind the hon . member that this Labour Government have just invest £ 20 million in Weymouth as part of the pride in place programme . rise — order . after the next speaker , I will reduce the time limit to four minute . however , it might be helpful if I draw every Member ' s attention to page 5 of " rule of behaviour and courtesy in the House of Commons " , specifically as it pertain to intervention . it be rude to come into the Chamber and intervene when you have not be here for the majority of the debate . it be good that the hon . member for South Dorset ( Lloyd Hatton ) finally remember the money give to his area by the last government , even though it have not be spend , which be a double pleasure for he ; I be sure he will find another way to spend it . I speak today to support the key high street shopping area in my constituency : the Mount , Hatch Lane , Highams Park , Station Road , Woodford Broadway and George Lane . each one of they now suffer as a result of a whole lot of different problem , some of which have be go on for a long time and some of which be more recent issue that have erupt as a result of government policy . there have be a slow , progressive increase in difficulty on the high street under many government , even though government have try to do different thing . what this Government have do be not helpful . the Minister speak about the difficulty that high street face and all the thing the Government want to do for they , but they have decide to introduce high national insurance contribution . more importantly , in a way , the Government have also lower the starting point for pay national insurance , which have be a body blow to small shop and retailer in all our constituency . Andy Rafter , owner of the award - win Rafters greengrocer in Driffield , be tell I just this morning that the bill he have receive as a result of his national insurance contribution increase be £ 30 , 000 a year . do my right hon . friend agree that that deter investment , deter future employment and be just bad for business on our high street ? I instinctively agree with my hon . friend ' s constituent , even though I have never meet he , but I wish he well — I be worried that I should have remember meet he , but I realise now that I have not , so there be no early onset . if the Government really want to raise national insurance , surely they should have make a major change by not impose it on small retail outfit , and certainly not small shop and shopkeeper . it have be a disaster , frankly , and it have add massively to the bill . another huge problem for these business be the rise in electricity cost , which be not necessarily to do with the strike price of gas but be massively down to the fact that we be now charge huge amount on our bill simply to subsidise the unbelievably high - pace drive to get to net zero , which will affect many of they . I recommend that the Government look again at the hospitality sector , which have lose 100 , 000 job . as have be say , 100 , 000 job lose in any other industry would have be a major issue debate on the Floor of the House . it be a huge number . this be an industry where many people start their business , and these pub , restaurant and so on be high point on our high street . add to all this , labour council seem incapable of understand why parking charge be a real problem for these business . the council in my area now levy very restrictive parking charge on high street . the trouble be that many high street business rely on pass trade — somebody who want to get one thing pull in for 15 minute of free parking , go over to another shop and buy something there before get back into their car . free parking encourage people to do that . my high street — particularly Station Road — have see a significant fall - off in trade simply because of those parking charge be impose . it be not helpful . in my area , the conservative administration bring in a parking charge after Labour campaign extensively for free parking . I be reassure by the local council recently , because the datum show that parking charge actually make no difference at all to footfall . could the right hon . gentleman comment on the fact that , in many area , small parking charge do not make an awful lot of difference ? I do not have a conservative council to criticise , although I would criticise it if it have do that . it be a Labour council that introduce these charge , and they have have a dramatic effect on those who would have come to shop . a small bookshop that have be there for many year be now think about call it a day . that be a real problem , and it be bonker to add that to the other problem these business have . something that ruin high street and cause real problem be the inability of local authority to control the number of adult gaming centre on the high street . I and many other be campaign to get the Government to allow local authority to make a decision about that , rather than be overridden . I hope the Government will look at that in due course . the big thing that be affect our high street above all else be the crime and shoplifting go on . we have have a huge problem in our main shopping centre . these people go into shop and be violent . they threaten the shopkeeper , who be often press to the wall while they take thousand of pound — this be not £ 1 or £ 2 ; thousand of pound of good be rob from shop shelf . those who be shop be also threaten , and it drive people out of the high street . we have try hard to bring this all together , so that the shop report the crime and the police be there for it , but despite that , this crime be still rise . one of the big problem be that when a shoplifter be arrest , they say that they wish to be try in the Crown court . they know full well that the backlog in the Crown court be so great that they will be out on the street again that afternoon . the Government should consider carefully whether shoplifter should be allow to do that , and whether magistrate court , which do not have a backlog , should be do summary charge on shoplifter in criminal case — with limit , obviously — which would get they off the street that day , not back on the street commit crime again . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? I can not give way again because the hon . Gentleman do not have a minute to give I — sorry about that . otherwise , I would have love to give way . that kind of shoplifting be a major problem , and I want to know that the Government will do what be necessary to bring the level down . as long as crime be at such a huge scale on our high street , we will lose more and more people and see more shop close . I ask the Government simply to think again about the national insurance charge , the level of business rate , and the nature of crime on our high street . those be the three main thing drive people away from the high street , mostly into shopping centre , which be not where we want they . we want people on our high street , which be really important and vital to our community . I be initially surprised to see this motion on the Order Paper , give that it be essentially a resubmission of a motion previous submit by the opposition and reject by the House in February , but I should not have be . after all , they do say that culprit often return to the scene of the offence , and when it come to the current parlous state of many of our high street , the conservative party be especially culpable . but really we should be grateful : today ' s debate have be an opportunity to talk about the high street in many of our constituency that be so badly let down under 14 year of conservative administration . Northfield high street be home to some excellent and specialised vendor , but the street be tired in too many place , and problem relate to homelessness , addiction , shoplifting and other form of crime stretch back many year . three year ago , it look as if the tide would turn , when great hope — encourage locally and nationally by the Conservatives — be raise over round 2 of the levelling - up fund . a bid be prepare for £ 11 million to regenerate the high street , but those hope be cruelly dash and not one penny of that funding be allocate to the city of Birmingham . instead , much of that funding be redirect to leafy and more affluent part of the country , as the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) so memorably boast . our high street be still deal with the legacy of the hollowing out of West Midlands police in the 2010 , when the force lose 1 , 200 police officer and police community support officer . the local authority suffer the sharp cut to spend power of any unitary council over the past decade . attempt be make to distract our constituent from the slow deterioration , with grand vision of scheme that be as solid as the wind . five year ago , the then Conservative Mayor of the West Midlands , Andy Street , publish a transport map of the region as part of his election campaign . it detail a prospective new metro line down Bristol road and through Northfield high street , but that metro extension be not mention again after the election and , as far as I can tell , no serious development work be ever do on the idea . I have have to spend too much time since last July chase ghost train , spectral station upgrade , and phantom tram line , and that approach have continue today with the will - o ' - the - wisp pledge to abolish rate completely . that will not convince a single business in any of our constituency . that be why today ' s motion be so risible : it be the political equivalent of return once more to kick the crack pave stone , the empty unit , and the broken bus stop that the conservative party leave behind . I be glad that , under Labour , progress be now be make . capital funding have be secure for infrastructure work on our transport network , which will mean more money in people ' s pocket and great footfall . crucially , £ 20 million have be commit over 10 year to the Hawkesley estate through the pride in place funding . I be grateful to the Minister with responsibility for high street , my hon . friend the hon . member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , for promise to visit the constituency . when she do , we will talk with local business about credible policy that will assist their current position . these be real measure that will help business , not the fantasy of Conservative Members , who break Britain but have come to the House today with not a hint of self - criticism , with no credibility and with no shame . I will finish with a few word about the Employment Rights Bill — I draw attention to my connection with the GMB trade union . it be welcome that the Liberal Democrat amendment to the conservative motion seek to strike out the word about the Employment Rights Bill . I hope that represent a change in approach , and that Liberal Democrat Members will not again line up with the Tories and Reform when the Bill return to the Division Lobbies tomorrow night . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . like so many people across Chester South and Eddisbury , I rely on our local high street for all sort of everyday thing , from pop to the shop for grocery , to grab a coffee with a friend , get a haircut , post a parcel , or simply see familiar face and feel connected . the high street be where community happen ; it be where local life come together . in recent week and month , however , countless local business I have speak to say that they be work incredibly hard but struggle under the weight of rise cost , red tape and taxis . at a time when we know that the Chancellor be prepare her Budget for later in the month , this debate be more important than ever , because it already look worryingly likely that we be head for yet another business - bust Budget from this Labour Government . perhaps today those on the Government Front Bench will listen carefully not just to the voice of Opposition Members , but to the small business owner in Chester South and Eddisbury who keep our high street alive . in my constituency there be no large supermarket , no bank and no big chain restaurant . our high street be not just part of community life ; they provide vital service . support they be not optional , but essential . let I give an example . no high street be really complete without a pub . yet this Labour Government ' s decision have leave the hospitality sector reel . last year , the Chancellor cut business rate relief for the retail , hospitality and leisure sector , mean that the average pub have see its rate bill rise from around £ 4 , 000 to over £ 9 , 600 a year . add to that the rise in employer national insurance contribution , and the frustration feel by many business that the burden impose by the Employment Rights Bill will , in practice , do the opposite of what be intend , and instead of protect job , it risk make they hard to provide . this Government have create a perfect storm for pub and hospitality business . one of the big problem with the Employment Rights Bill be the day - one right that it introduce , which will remove the flexibility that allow employer to decide whether someone be the right hire or not . my right hon . friend make an important point , and it be one that business have raise with I directly . they all want to do the right thing , but they need the flexibility to be able to employ in different circumstance . just last week I meet Richard , who run several independent pub across Cheshire , include the Boars Head near Wybunbury . like many landlord , his big worry be not just his own business , but his staff . because of high cost and new employment burden , he have be force to make difficult choice . he be concerned that he will not be able to offer part - time job this Christmas to give young people some extra cash — and , more importantly , some experience — and help he meet the demand of the festive season . my hon . friend be speak eloquently about pub . do she agree that one of the good way to support pub be to give they a fair excise regime , and that that fall on the Government ? absolutely ; my hon . friend make an important point . support pub be vital , because they really be at the heart of many of our high street . since last year ' s Budget , ten of thousand of job have disappear across hospitality and retail . that be Labour ' s record , and it show exactly why we need a Government who understand business , back enterprise and believe in deliver growth . another vital high - street service be the post office . as there be no bank in my constituency , post office be indispensable , but many struggle to keep their door open . when the branch in Kelsall shut , I launch a petition to save it ; I be grateful for the support of nearly 350 resident who add their name to the petition . I have since meet representative of the post office , which be actively seek a new location , but as our high street shrink , and as local business face mount pressure as a result of the damaging policy of this Labour Government , find suitable premise be increasingly difficult . will my hon . friend give way ? I will make progress . in Malpas , the post office recently close with no notice at all . after sustained community pressure , thank to the dedication of our hard - work local councillor Rachel Williams , and through further discussion with Post Office Ltd , it have thankfully reopen , although at present it operate without cash service . I continue to work with it on restore the full range of facility , so that the many people who rely on they every day will again be able to access they . I want to end on a positive note , support our conservative vision of how we can restore and revitalise our high street . business in my constituency have welcome the plan set out by the shadow Chancellor and the Leader of the Opposition , particularly our commitment to permanent , 100 % business rate relief for the retail , leisure and hospitality sector . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be sorry ; I need to make progress . that policy would support around 250 , 000 business nationwide . as the Chancellor prepare her Budget for later this month , I say to she and her Ministers : " step outside Westminster this Friday . walk down your local high street . speak to the shopkeeper , the publican , the hairdresser and the caf é owner . listen to their concern , and put they at the centre of your Budget . " they should support this conservative motion , which will deliver for our community and our high street . I be very fortunate to represent the beautiful village across the Shipley constituency , include Baildon , Menston , Burley - in - Wharfedale , Wilsden , Harden , Cullingworth and Eldwick . these community be thrive because they have village hall ; church , like Wesleys in Baildon ; post office , like the community post office run by volunteer in Wilsden ; pub , like the Malt Shovel in Menston ; local Co - operative supermarket ; and many independent caf é s and shop . I will focus on the two main town , Bingley and Shipley . Bingley be a historical market town . it have a thriving art centre that have recently benefit from upgrade after receive grassroots art funding . Bingley ' s anchor business be the famous Damart factory , which make thermal underwear . it host community event , and have host a fantastic exhibition for Bradford 2025 . there be new charitable enterprise , such as the Brick Bank caf é , and independent shop , such as Luscombe ' s , Hedgehog Organics and Eldwick Creamery , as well as caf é s such as the Craft House , the Loft and the Lounge . at the heart of the town be Bingley pool , which sadly remain closed due to the devastating cut that the Tories make , over 14 year , to local council such as Bradford council , and due to the previous Conservative Government ' s false promise of level - up funding , which never materialise . by contrast , this Government have commit million through the pride in place programme , and be rebalance the amount of money for council like Bradford . they be give more power and money to local community . I be keen for the Minister to say more about how Labour be strengthen the community right to buy , which will make it easy for local community to take on and run facility such as Bingley pool . let I turn to Shipley town centre . while there be some brilliant business there , it be really neglect under the Tories ; there be vacant shop and many charity shop , bank close , crime be up , and shoplifter be free to commit crime with no consequence . I congratulate Bradford council on deliver a fantastic upgrade to the market square , and I also congratulate this Labour Government on increase neighbourhood policing , which lead to a summer crackdown on street drinking and new power to crack down on retail crime . unlike other area we have hear about today , we be see new pub open , such as Reconnection in Shipley , which open just this weekend under the ownership of Beth and Nathan , who already run a successful pub in Baildon . I hope that the Minister agree that high street like Shipley ' s be on the up ; we have a Labour Government and a Labour council finally work together . there be huge potential in Shipley to increase footfall . it be well connect to Leeds and Bradford by train , and now that this Labour Government be get the train back into public ownership , we will see improved service and well affordability . it be vital that we build more housing on brownfield site , such as the riverside in Saltaire and the old Ian Clough Hall in Baildon , so that more people live near and on our high street . we should also convert excess commercial , retail and office space into much - need social and affordable home . I hope the Minister will set out how Homes England fund and planning reform will unlock those site , stimulate growth on our high street , and reverse the situation that we face under the Tory Government , when so few home be build . to sum up , place and town centre like those in Bingley and Shipley have huge potential . after 14 year of neglect and decline under the Tories , this Government be support our high street , so that they can thrive once again . for 30 year , MJ ' s Gym have be central to the Northway and Tewkesbury community . it be one of those gritty local gym with a playlist 10 , 000 song long , where man and woman of all age train out a hard day ' s work . I meet Chris for the first time a few month back . he try to keep mj ' s run in his spare time while he work as an electrician , but because of decision make by this Government , he be struggle to keep mj ' s solvent . I do not want to lose mj ' s and all its history to another sterile gym chain . will say that the Cleeve Bookshop be only viable in the current economic climate because it be keep afloat by online sale . I do not want to lose the Cleeve Bookshop to another chain store . Lauren be sustain Bumpyland Softplay use the wage that she earn from her full - time job . as well as give our child somewhere to play and build their social skill , she be employ young people in their first job . I have already speak , frequently and at length , in support of my hospitality sector . needless to say , the business in that sector need the Government to change course , too . my high street in Bishops Cleeve , Tewkesbury and Winchcombe have soul and character , and be worth preserve . however , if the government do not change course , we will lose they forever . clearly , support for small business should not come at the cost of further cut to public spending , as propose in the motion that the Conservatives have table today . none of we have any economic lesson to learn from the party that drive our local service to ruin . therefore , will the Government take reasonable step , such as increase the digital service tax and the online gambling tax , so that they can reverse their employer national insurance contribution hike and create a new , low - rate NIC band to lower the cost of employ part - time staff ? it take some audacity , or maybe amnesia , for the conservative to table a motion about our high street , give the absolute mess that they leave they in after 14 long , depress year in government . they say , " let ' s look forward , not back , " but those year can not be wipe away by the people of my city — the cut be too deep , and the damage be too much . Portsmouth be a proud city , but in Portsmouth North , we have see what neglect look like up close . once - vibrant shopping parade and community space be leave to decline on the Conservatives ' watch . Allaway Avenue , London Road north end , Cosham high street and the Hilsea shopping area — to name a few once - bustle local centre — have be blight by empty shop or inappropriate one sell counterfeit or steal good , as well as by vandalism and illegal employment . local business tell I the same story again and again : despite be in charge , the Conservatives do nothing . business close , trade drop , rent and rate remain high , footfall fall , and basic safety and cleanliness be ignore . one shopkeeper in Cosham tell I last summer that " we ' ve have three break - in this year alone . we report it , but no one come . " datum from Portsmouth neighbourhood police back that up . recorded incident of shoplifting and intimidation of local shop owner increase by 30 % between 2019 and 2023 . police officer be do their very good , but under the Tories , law and order be neglect , under - resource and overstretch for far too long , but there be hope . under this Labour Government , the situation be change . through the safe street campaign , and now that we have neighbourhood officer , we have see target action in Portsmouth North that have deliver a dramatic downfall in crime in key area . link between police and retailer have improve , and modern technology be be use . UK Partners Against Crime be work in partnership with our high street retailer . neighbourhood officer such as PC Ben Treed and PC Hannah Kelleher need and deserve real credit for tackle antisocial behaviour and protect our shopkeeper and resident . it be a privilege to go with they on their round . the hon . Lady be right to recognise the advance make as a result of our have name neighbourhood officer . will she therefore congratulate the conservative police and crime commissioner , Donna Jones , who bring in that policy before the hon . Lady ' s Government do ? I welcome the work of my pcc , particularly on retail crime and in roll out UKPAC . the police officer I have mention deserve real credit , and with proper investment and community backing , they can finally do the job that the expert want they to do . that be why the initiative I have describe , alongside the pride in place programme , be so vital for my city . Portsmouth North have be award £ 20 million to breathe life back into local high street and community in Paulsgrove . that funding will go directly towards regenerate community space , improve safety and support the local economy . importantly , how that money be spend will be decide by the community — the people who know the area well . we already see progress be make by a Labour Government act on behalf of our community — in education , in our NHS and in our armed force . local resident have tell I that they finally feel hopeful that their neighbourhood will receive the investment and respect that it need and deserve . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) , whose outstanding campaign for high - street renewal have inspire so many of we . it be her work that encourage I to launch my own local initiative , the " Back our high Streets — stop Dodgy Shops " campaign . the campaign tackle an issue that have plague community like mine for too long : the rise of so - call dodgy shop — unregulated outlet sell counterfeit good and illegal vape , massage parlour and barber , often operate outside proper licensing and safety standard and shirk their tax responsibility , leave an unfair playing field for those who do follow the rule . my hon . friend make an excellent point about the number of pop - up shop and illegal trader on the high street . I be run a petition about the antisocial use of firework ; do she agree that more need to be do to stop their illegal sale in pop - up shop ? absolutely . such shop be unregulated and potentially not pay their taxis , unlike other business on the same high street . they drive down the quality of our high street , put legitimate trader out of business , and create environment where antisocial behaviour can flourish . I be work closely with Portsmouth city council ' s trading standard team and Portsmouth police to ensure that enforcement action be take , include raid and seizure . we need to push council to use the power propose in the new Planning and Infrastructure Bill ; to work with community ; and to take compulsory purchase opportunity , so that we replace empty unit with genuine local business and community space . this be about restore pride , safety and opportunity to our local shopping area . however , our high street be not just about shop . in a change world of retail , we can and should ensure that retail , leisure , hospitality , personal service and house sit together , because high street be place where people come together and find friendship , conversation and connection . support they be central to rebuild vibrant , safe and welcoming community . conservative Members talk today about " revive " our high street , but it be a Labour Government and a Labour MP who be actually do that in my city — invest in people , work with small and medium - sized enterprise , hospitality and leisure , and rebuild our community . we be ensure that local pride have national action . let I end by thank resident , volunteer , tradespeople , retailer , those who work for small and medium - sized enterprise and community group in Portsmouth . they be out there every single day keep our high street alive , and their pride and persistence be the heartbeat of our community . with this Labour Government and two Labour mp , they finally have partner in Westminster who share their ambition , their passion and their pride in our city — and we be not stop there , because we want to reach the height and become the City of Culture . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) , whose passion I always admire , even if I rarely follow or agree with her argument . from the day you start your business until the day you pass it on , Labour simply see a target to tax . Labour Members have show that today . by contrast , conservative see a dream to back . labour make it hard to start a business , take more from you as you grow , and leave a tax bill for your child when you be go . we on this side of the House back entrepreneur . we give they the freedom to build , the tool to invest , and the chance to pass their success to the next generation . that be what our plan will deliver to get Britain work again . start a business be a leap of faith , take by someone with an idea and the determination to make it work . conservative understand that , because many of we have start and run our own business . sadly , just one Cabinet Minister can say the same . I do not think that Labour member det enterprise and business ; they just do not understand it , and see it as something that they must relentlessly tap . in 14 year under the Conservatives , the number of business grow by 1 . 1 million . we have build business , so we know what it take to make they grow . this Government have not , and it show . I be sure that member across the House love go into school in their constituency . the one in Beverley and Holderness be brim with bud entrepreneur — young people full of idea but lack the tool to turn they into reality . research by the Federation of Small Businesses find that , while 60 % of young people want to own a business , only 16 % ever will . the British Retail Consortium have warn that £ 7 billion of cost have be put on to business because of national insurance contribution levy by this government , and the Chancellor ' s attitude be to say , " well , the NHS be work . " do she really think that the hospital budget should rest on the entrepreneur in our constituency ? we see it in speech after speech from Labour Members . perhaps it be because of the career they have have . they think the key to unlock the high street , or indeed the wide economy , be public investment . it be not ; it be about government get out of the way . of course we need a facilitating local and national government , but here be the fundamental : it be not their money — the money of government — which business be allow to have ; and it be not their space , which business be allow to occupy . it be our space — the people ' s space — and government be there to facilitate and support , humbly . but humility be something that the Labour party never seem to display when it come to deal with business . all it ever do be seek to tax it . rise — I will give way to the hon . Gentleman , for whom I have a great deal of respect . on the basis of the right hon . Gentleman ' s argument , he must support a rise in the national living wage . that be the pure form of a contract between the employer and the employee and , of course , that money go straight back into the local economy in the town that he speak about . of course , we do lift the minimum wage by more than , I think , any other Government . but if we go too far and do what this Government do with young people — make they cost the same as old people , even though they have no experience — funnily enough , they do not get a job . of course , Government Members trumpet about the Employment Rights Bill : " oh , we be provide all these right for worker ! " that be not much use if people be push out of the labour market . I think the Labour party be suppose to care about the marginalised . well , the marginalised be the people who be miss out — not your fat , union - back worker get vast pay at vast cost . billion be spend pay off the union paymaster of the Labour Government , while young people be once again disadvantaged , and people who be far away from the labour market because of mental health or other issue be push far away from it . let I give the House an example from my constituency . it do not get much more rural or isolated than down in Kilnsea , just above Spurn point , and if you go to the Crown & Anchor there and speak to those publican , you will hear that it be this Government , not 14 year of the Conservatives , who have increase their taxis , mean that they be not take on a young person — a young person who would have have their first chance . I know those guy be absolutely committed to find people who be far away from the labour market , provide a nurture environment and help they get into work , but that dream be be kill by the Labour party . I speak to Viki Foster , career leader at Withernsea high school , who share how valuable the right business support in school can be , and how much more school could do if they have the resource to match . our plan will launch business challenge in school , introduce entrepreneur - lead mentor scheme and provide seed funding from government , so that we can unlock the potential of the next generation . there be a role for government , but it be in facilitate . we have get to make sure that government do not crush and oppress business , but support it instead . start a business be one thing , but keep it go be another . around 60 % of business fail within the first three year . they need our support , because when Toll Gavel in Beverley or Market Place in Hedon thrive , that create job , boost spend and drive strong growth for Britain . labour just do not seem to get it . from listen to the speech today , there seem to be no limit to the amount of tax the Government think can be impose on business — as long as it be channel into public investment in their particular constituency , they think that will grow the economy . they can come here to trumpet and name a vast number of public investment , but if the overall position be that young people be far away from the labour market than they be before , if entrepreneur and people who would have have high - growth business be move abroad , and if high net worth individual be dissuade from work hard in this country , or , bad still , move abroad , then all of we be poor — our high street in particular . my resident care deeply about our high street . from Earl ' s Court Road to Queensway , and from Notting Hill Gate to Portobello Road , those high street have a lot of potential but be put through the wringer by the previous Conservative Government . we have empty unit , unconstrained row of slot machine casino , and the rise of vape shop , candy shop , Harry Potter shop and barber squeeze out legitimate business . bank close , with no coherent Government response , and neighbourhood police budget be slash . we have see the rise of shoplifting , attack on retail staff and , of course , wage flatline for a decade . People have less money in their pocket to spend on the high street , thank to the mini - Budget . as reveal by London Centric , we have even have snail farm crop up across the country to take advantage of tax loophole . that be a symbol of the Tory economy : sluggish , brittle and hard - to - swallow mollusc take up retail space and push out legitimate business . Change be need , and it be come not just from the Government but from community . I pay tribute to the resident and councillor in Earl ' s Court who join force with I to block a 24 / 7 licence for an adult gaming centre . that be a precedent that I hope will apply to other casino and slot machine proposal , and I welcome the Government introduce new power to say no to new bet shop , vape shop and other that degrade our high street . the planning system can prevent those outfits from opening in the first place , and I be encourage to hear that Treasury colleague be look at how to step up enforcement . the National Crime Agency ' s Operation Machinize hit hundred of barber shop and other cash - intensive business suspect of illicit activity . I be astonish that the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , dismiss the argument on tax evasion , give the harm that it cause to legitimate business . at one end of the spectrum , we have business link to serious and organised crime , hide the proceed of the drug trade and wash that money through our high street . at the other end , we have vat evasion , business rate evasion and dodgy trading practice . I commend Westminster city council for crack down on the candy shop on Oxford Street and across our city — a pioneer council support our high street where its predecessor fail . I want to make the House aware of a particularly nefarious practice that have catch on . a shady organisation will pop up , with director who have no idea what they be in control of . the organisation then fleece the taxpayer and sell the public a dodgy product . before it can be hold accountable , the leadership change and the organisation reappear under a new brand . this be not just the conservative party ' s strategy , but the practice of phoenixe . I welcome Treasury Ministers ' previous commitment to go far on this practice by boost HMRC to include community harm in its evaluation of whether to take on case , and encourage the Insolvency Service to do more to get back taxpayer ' money . add those practice on enforcement and planning to the suite of other thing that this Government be do to support our high street be the way that we will work with our community to revitalise they and to bring their high street back to life . Napoleon ' s famous remark that " England be a nation of shopkeeper " be mean as an insult . however , for many of we up and down these isle , the high street and its many small business be a source of immense pride . my constituency be home to one of the high concentration of small business in the country , with more than 3 , 000 operate locally . although not all be on the high street , they be all part of the entrepreneurial ecosystem that make up the local economy . I have see at first hand the sacrifice that SME owner right across my constituency make day in , day out : the sleepless night as financial pressure hit ; the long hour away from family , work six or seven day a week ; and people ' s Herculean effort to make sure that they might even take a holiday . those be the challenge face the self - employ , the sole trader , the family business and the small team . for over 30 year , my parent have their own small business , which be call mainly Kitchens . they make huge sacrifice . Dad work six day a week . they survive the recession of the 1980 and the financial crash in the early noughtie . because of their financial prudence , they have a business to sell to my brother when Dad retire . Britain be build off the back of small business like those in my constituency and the one own by my family . they account for 99 . 2 % of the business population , employ 16 . 9 million Britons — 60 % of private sector job — and contribute £ 2 . 8 trillion to the UK economy . many of these business can be find on high street like the Broadway and the Ridgeway in my constituency — business include Therapy Hair and Beauty Boutique , own by Effi and her husband Daniel ; the new Plymstock post office , which postmaster Steven Boyd have open this month , take a huge risk at a time of great uncertainty ; and Tubb pharmacy in Newton Ferrers . there be also many off - the - high - street business in my constituency , such as Serpells farm store , own by Scott . that be a classic example of a business that be a critical part of the local rural economy , and which , because of the Labour Government ' s Budget decision , have have to stop hire new staff as employment cost rise . in addition , it be experience a doubling in its business rate , not the reduction that be promise by the Chancellor . for the avoidance of doubt , the job that be not be give be to the young people we have hear much about this afternoon . the contribution of small business can not be measure purely in pound sterling . our high street form the centre of our community , and be place where generation have shop , socialise and work . for many , the decline of the high street be the clear sign of the nation ' s decline , so it be surprising that this Labour Government seem so determined to kill Britain ' s entrepreneurial spirit . the Labour Government ' s business rate reform be nowhere to be see . subsequent Treasury reform have raise concern that large business , which act as anchor tenant by draw people to town centre , may be force to close , which have an impact on small retailer by cut the number of visitor to high street . this be compound by the Chancellor ' s £ 40 billion tax raid , fund off the back of hard - work small business owner . thank to the small business rate relief bring in by the previous Government , a third of property be take out of business rate all together , but this Labour Government seem intent on undo that progress . finally , last week I visit Bidfood UK in Lee Mill , which raise with I serious concern about the knock - on effect of these rise cost on food wholesaler . this be important because wholesaler play a key role in connect food producer with local shop , restaurant and public service . the pressure they face from increase operating cost and change to business rate risk drive price higher throughout the entire food supply chain , ultimately place additional strain on small business owner and put our high street at risk . if this be not take seriously by the Government , the impact on food cost and inflation will be huge . the one thing I would love to hear from the Minister about be the point on food wholesaler ; in that respect , what be he go to do at the big end to make sure that our high street remain intact ? it be unusual that I find myself agree with the shadow Business Secretary , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , but it be high time that we discuss our local high street in this place . I would gently say , however , that do so require we to look back at the record of the Conservatives during their time in government , and frankly , when it come to our high street , it be a record they should be ashamed of . come to the House feign indignation and refuse to accept any responsibility for the damage they have do will really get under the skin of my constituent . fourteen year of hollow funding commitment , with antisocial behaviour out of control and the scar of neglect visible across our high street , but the Conservatives instead choose to come here to talk down the Employment Rights Bill , which be a critical piece of legislation that will protect the very worker who have a stake in our high street . if they be satisfied with worker remain in deeply insecure employment — like those at Tetrosyl in Greater Manchester , who be face the prospect of fire and rehire as we speak — they should just come out and say so . the people of Heywood and Middleton North be resilient . they be grafter and they care deeply about their local community . they know that the challenge face our high street will not be overcome overnight , and that for we to rebuild that image of a bustling local centre — an image that invoke a sense of real pride — there must first come investment not just of capital , but of responsibility and confidence . this be where we need to meet people halfway . too many people look at their high street and see a landscape they no long recognise . where we once see the trading of local produce , in recent year we have see the proliferation of illicit good that not only perpetuate antisocial behaviour on our street , but run down public health and corrode our town from the inside . my constituent refuse to buy into the defeatism that opposition party feed off . we recognise the strength and asset that underpin our diverse community , and I be proud to stand alongside this Labour Government , who be finally provide the mean for local people to take back their high street . I be delighted that my borough be a beneficiary of pride in place impact funding and I thank Ministers for their engagement with I in recent week . I be proud to host a community meeting at Burnside community centre in Middleton , where I hear decisive call from local people on the change they want to see for their local amenity and their high street . unlike the previous Government , which deliberately move money away from area of most acute need , this Labour Government be work in tandem with local council and local people to revive the asset that our town be build on . this investment , which should be allocate to Middleton , couple with the community right to buy and compulsory purchase power , will allow community to seize untapped asset and turn around shop , pub and building in disrepair . we be empower local council to block unwanted shop , from vape shop to dodgy barber . this Government understand the challenge before we — the shattered trust we need to rebuild . rather than capitulate to the declinist narrative that suit the opposition party all too well , we be crack on and deliver change , and come at this from all side . through tangible and lasting investment from national Government to the cutting of local red tape , and through the talent , grit and innovation of the people and business I represent , I know that the good day of our high street lie ahead . I want to raise the concern of fantastic business in the yeovil constituency . the current Government ' s employer national insurance increase will damage high street business . Shaun , who run Lanes Hotel in West Coker , put it well than I ever could : " at a time when we need help , " the Chancellor " have choose to give we another kicking . we be sick of it " . that be why we Liberal Democrats oppose the unfair job tax that have hit small business hard in rural area like mine . Andrew , who be the landlord of the Cat Head Inn in Chiselborough , which have sadly now close , write to I to point out that the business rate system be " fundamentally outdated " . he be right and change to the system keep get kick down the road . I urge the Government to replace the break business rate with a commercial landowner levy as soon as possible . the system would be base purely on the value of the land where the business be locate , shift responsibility for tax from business to commercial landlord . this would not be a debate about high street without mention bank and banking hub . we be able to get one in Crewkerne in my constituency , but Chard and Ilminster be deny banking hub despite have the same need — in some case great . that be why assessment criterion for banking hub must include the need for in - person banking service and financial advice . the Government must also be a bit more ambitious and push for far more than 300 banking hub over five year . that be hardly any , consider there be 650 constituency . small business in the area , include the Acorn caf é , have tell I that antisocial behaviour in Yeovil be negatively affect footfall and trade . that be why we need the Government to invest more in community police in rural area . rural area seem to get miss off the list . we have hear that many time today and we have be overlook for far too long . finally , for rural community such as those in Yeovil , a huge issue nowadays be just be able to get to your local high street . public transport be a nightmare , show by the constant issue with the cancel no . 11 bus . that be why most people drive , but parking be also an issue . local business owner , such as Jane who own Caf é 50 and the owner of the Mad Hatter , be really worried about the potential closure of car park in Yeovil and the impact on footfall and revenue . I have a similar problem in Farnham . we be be hit by the headwind of what be go on nationally , but the Farnham infrastructure programme mean there be disruption locally . now , we all welcome the outcome , but what we have a problem with be Lib Dem - run Waverley council whack up car parking charge , which be deter people . can the hon . Gentleman have a word with his colleague in Waverley to stop that ? one reason why house building on some of our car park be be propose be because of the Government ' s underfunding of rural area . I agree that parking charge be a problem . we have the same issue in Somerset . they be have to be level out because of the unitary council , which the hon . Gentleman ' s Conservative Government push on Somerset council . parking be a massive issue and charge do sometimes deter people from come to our constituency . I know that be not the council ' s intention , so I urge they to take on those concern and think again , but Somerset also need more money from central Government for well rural public transport and road . for too long our high street have be leave to decline . that must change . like people around the country , my constituent be tired of watch their high street decline . they be tired of see good , local business close , replace by dodgy barber , vape shop , bet shop , or bad : nothing at all , with the shop leave to rot . the decline in our high street be a political choice that be make knowingly by the conservative party over 14 year . the Conservatives strip our local council of power , defunde they and prevent they from intervene on their own high street . the Conservatives have bring forward an Opposition day debate on an issue that they themselves powerfully undermine for more than a decade . I be proud that this Government be take a different approach . through the pride in place funding , resident of Cotmanhay in my constituency be receive £ 20 million to invest in their community over 10 year . when I meet Cotmanhay resident at a community meet the weekend before last , I be strike by their enthusiasm and general desire to improve our community . many people in Cotmanhay be brim with idea of how to revitalise the area and , for the first time , they be be listen to and give the power to make the change that they want to see in their area . I be also pleased that council will finally be give great power to say no to fake barber , vape shop and bookie , which we all know be cover for the drug industry . council will be able to seize board - up shop , save derelict pub and create space for genuine , innovative business that will revive our high street . strong local government and community empowerment be the good way that we can revitalise our high street . resident ultimately know well what their town need . do the hon . Gentleman agree that we should also look at the police have the power to close illegal shop and stop they trade immediately , rather than have to take lengthy process through the court before they can be close down ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that very reasonable point , although I think it be probably more a question for the ministerial team than for I . I be extremely proud to work with Labour - control Erewash borough council , which have be take a lot of firm action recently on our decline high street . since take control of the council just two and a half year ago , the Labour council have be tackle absentee landlord and negligent property owner , include those responsible for the decay Wigfalls building on Bath Street in Ilkeston , which have be decrepit for more than 20 year . the owner have be give a clear choice : invest in their property , with council support , and show pride in our town centre , or face enforcement through a section 215 clean - up order . my colleague on the council have also massively expand the council ' s shop signage grant , offer local business up to £ 2 , 000 for new signage . the scheme have be extend beyond our immediate local centre — beyond the hub in Ilkeston and Long Eaton — include Cotmanhay , Kirk Hallam and Sawley . it will help we to brighten our town and village and to support small , independent business across the borough with direct intervention . the measure this Government be take to empower local council and finally end the scandal of underfunding in council across the north and the midland will strengthen the hand of dedicated local authority such as Erewash and community such as Cotmanhay in the fight against empty town centre . it be time for we to focus on innovation over stagnation , on the grassroot over national diktat and on pride over neglect . I be deeply proud that this be the Labour Government ' s approach . it be a pleasure to take part in this debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be natural in these debate that we repeatedly hear phrase like " lifeblood " and " beat heart " , because colleague across the House love our town and village centre ; they be the essence of our local community . for I , that mean principal town like Alton and Petersfield and substantial village like Liss , four Marks , Clanfield , Horndean and Rowlands Castle . why do we care ? of course , it be important to have the provision of good and service for our resident , but mostly it be because these be the place that bring people together ; they stop isolation , form social bond and give life and form to the idea of community . lot of different thing be need for a successful high street . there be the physical environment and its aesthetic appeal , which member have mention . I pay tribute to those who give up their time voluntarily to maintain and improve that landscape , include litter picker such as those from the Alton Society , the Petersfield Society and the brilliantly name Rubbish Singers . a good event calendar can really make a difference and can go a long way . I think you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that it be hard to beat an event calendar like that of Alton in Hampshire . it be about have cultural asset , such as Petersfield museum . in fact , this morning the Culture , Media and Sport Committee hear about the role of heritage building in create a sense of place . it be about initiative that bring people into the town centre , such as Dementia - friendly Alton and " Health on the High Street " . there must be wide community facility , include library and nursery — in fact , anything that just bring people to that specific place . Most of all , it be about people and the shop , caf é s , pub and restaurant that they work in . the great british high street still have a lot go for it , but it face some very difficult headwind , principally from out - of - town shopping and online shopping and home delivery . for the avoidance of doubt , I do not blame the Labour Government for either of those thing . they be force that our country and the world have be deal with for quite some time — and we can add to those more recently the indirect effect on banking , as a couple of colleague have mention . I be very lucky in my constituency to have a thriving high street in Minehead . it be obvious when I be wander around do my Small Business Saturday that the strength of the independent trader be what make Minehead high street particularly successful and a thriving part of my constituency . do the hon . member agree with that point ? I largely agree . in truth , it be a blend . have distinctive independent trader be what set all our town apart ; it make they unique and it make we very proud of they . but customer want both those independent trader and some brand - name retailer , and there be nothing wrong with be a brand - name retailer . the secret come from have a combination of both . I be just say that I want to join in with what other colleague have say about the need for banking . on the need to review the criterion , I think it be the Financial Conduct Authority that set the criterion . as this development in banking go far , we need to ensure that town the size of Petersfield in my constituency have a business banking facility that be open at least five day a week , and I hope that the Government can look at that with the FCA . give the headwind that our high street face , the most important thing we need be more people to come into those place . effort to create more residential accommodation in town centre , which the hon . member for Oldham West , Chadderton and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) talk about , be useful , as be maximise the use of brownfield land . Most people come into town centre be come in for a purpose , and we need to be hospitable to they . walk and cycling be great , but we must remember that most people be still come in by car , especially in an area like mine , and we must make sure that it work for they too . the hon . Member be make a very impressive speech . cultural institution be also important for our high street . I note that it be the 200th anniversary of the death of Jane Austen , who live in Chawton House in Alton in his constituency . hopefully that will help to regenerate his high street as well . the hon . Gentleman make a very good point . I might return the favour by mention the Robert Bolt theatre , which I think be in his constituency . colleague will know of " a man for all Seasons " , and the hon . Gentleman be something of a man for all season himself . as well as bring more people into the town centre , I think the no . 1 imperative right now be to address the cost of do business and employ people . there be good argument against every tax — anyone who have ever work at the Treasury will know that — and that be why we end up have a blend of lot of different taxis . business rate be an especially bad tax , because it be a fix cost be to impose on business . that make it hard to turn a profit , and crucially it deter new people from come into business . in the case of retail and hospitality , we must remember that as well as their role as business , they be volume employer — two of the three big volume employer . as well as be the home of worker , they be a big source of customer who will use other business . there be a bit of talk about the national living wage and so on . of course , it be good that the national living wage go up . the point be that when that be do at the same time as other thing that impose further cost on business , make it hard to employ people , we will see an effect . we be already see damage , not in mass lay - off but in marginal hiring decision , with employer not take on some Saturday help and not offer some extra hour . in fact , we see some pub close early than they would do ordinarily . I be afraid that will all become bad with the Employment Rights Bill , and the big impact will be on those furth from or new to the labour market . I encourage the Government to think again . order . there will be an immediate three - minute time limit . Calder Valley be a string of community . from Brighouse to Elland and from Hebden Bridge to Todmorden , each town have its own character and pride , shape by its high street . but after 14 year of conservative government , too many of our local high street be leave in decline . in Calderdale , we lose nearly a quarter of our pub between 2010 and 2018 , and more than 10 , 000 hospitality venue close across the country . that be before the pandemic and the cost of living crisis . the Conservatives have chance after chance to deal with that , which be why their debate how we will well clean up their mess come as a bit of a shock today . the voice of local business tell the same story . in my business survey , 85 % of high street business say that there be not enough support under the last government . the Conservatives fall asleep at the wheel , too busy fight among themselves and swap leader every year , with a new business Minister or community Minister every five minute . the world have change , and the high street be change with it . although internet retailer be hoover up customer , successful business be those that can innovate , offer value , curation and experience — the entrepreneurial spirit . but in order to deliver that we need a government who talk to small business and not just the big actor . Calder Valley be one of the most entrepreneurial place in the country . we have the high business density in West Yorkshire , and over the past five year people have create 6 . 5 % more business , which be well above the national average and a testament to the character of my community . but , instead of back that energy , the Tories leave productivity to stagnate , cost to spiral and small business to struggle on their own . nowhere be that clear than on high street up and down the country . for too many people , the story of their town centre be board up shop , which , if they be lucky , be replace by vape shop and bookie . it be unfortunately a similar story in part of my constituency . do my hon . friend agree it be strike that the one word we have not hear from Conservative Members in the debate for everything they have do be " sorry " ? absolutely . there be a complete lack of contrition about the conservative legacy of neglect . the Tories let our value pub and shop close . I once explain to an american friend — they have a different culture — the difference between pub and bar : a bar be just somewhere you go to drink , but a pub be your community living room . that be why this Labour Government be give community the right to buy a much - love pub , post office or community hall that be under threat . local people can step in and save business . that be pioneer by the then unique community ownership scheme that take over the Fox & Goose in Hebden Bridge . this Labour Government be cut red tape and tackle late payment so that business can focus on serve customer , rather than fight to survive . it be not just that the vast majority of our high street business in my survey say that they want to grow , and they can do with the right support ; they tell I that they choose to be in Calder Valley because of the brilliant community spirit that make our place special . it be the same spirit that Sally Wainwright have put on our screen with " Happy Valley " and " Riot Women " . I know that every community represent across this House have its own story , its own community spirit and its own pride . labour be back that pride . the Labour Government know that local community matter , and they require real capital , not fail platitude from across the House . this be about pride : pride in town , pride in community and pride in place . the Conservatives leave our high street to die . labour will bring they back to life town by town , community by community , in Calder Valley and across the country . picture this : Downing Street , a hub of activity , alive with purpose , people move with intent , heated debate and entrepreneurship at every turn . you look confused , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be not talk about the Downing Street here in SW1 , but Downing Street in Farnham , where the high street start and where the most heated debate be over whether the Farnham infrastructure project will ever end and the concern about the local Lib Dems whack up car parking charge at the same time . the other big debate be about how high street will survive the headwind of tax rise that this Government have throw against they time and again . from hospitality to leisure and retail , the high street of Farnham , Haslemere , Liphook and the new town centre in Bordon be hive of business activity . some 98 % of the business across my constituency be small or medium - sized enterprise , provide the backbone of our local economy and the foundation of community life . my wonderful constituency of Bromley and Biggin Hill be also home to many sme , and they tell I that they be be punish because of the irresponsible decision take by this Labour Government . do my hon . friend agree ? I entirely agree . the truth be that Labour do not have the backing of small and medium - sized business because it be stifle growth with its costly net zero commitment , layer of red tape , change to the living wage , cut to business rate relief , the Employment Rights Bill and high national insurance contribution . that be a toxic cocktail design to choke off enterprise and ambition . the Conservatives have a very good record on support local business . just think back to the pandemic , when we deliver 100 % business rate relief for many business . indeed , when we leave office last year , business rate relief be at 75 % . yet what do labour do ? as soon as it come in , it slash that relief to just 40 % , which be absolutely crippling for small business in my constituency . that be why I be proud and please that we have announce the abolition of business rate altogether , mean that nearly a quarter of a million business will benefit . finance by the golden rule , that be responsible , sustainable and , most importantly , pro - growth . an hon . member on the Government Benches argue that remove the rate will let landlord raise rent , but that assume a balanced market . the reality be oversupply , with retail space outstrip demand . abolish business rate will therefore not drive up rent , but will make high street more sustainable . the Brightwells development in Farnham , in my constituency , prove the point . when my right hon . friend the Leader of the opposition visit my constituency last week , we meet Steve at Hamilton ' s , Mario at Serina , and Julian at the Castle pub . all three say the same thing : business rate be crippling , HMRC ' s red tape be grow and energy bill be too high . that be why I be delighted that we have a plan to scrap business rate and cut energy bill for those small business . in Bordon , in my constituency , we be work intensely to ensure that the new high street and town centre can thrive . we be make progress , but that progress will be undermine by this Government ' s attack on business . these be not just business ; they be the heartbeat of our community . they train young people , they create job and they invest in the place they call home . I be also afraid that the disconnect that Labour show nationally be echo by the Liberal Democrats in my area . they simply do not understand the struggle that our high street face under this government and therefore have no empathy for our local business . high street be not just the commercial zone ; they be social , and the social and economic soul of our town . support they require a Government willing to protect essential service , invest in rural area and cut through the bureaucracy that hold small business back . conservative understand that if we back ambition , we build prosperity . if we bury it in bureaucracy , we destroy it . our high street and the community that they serve deserve well than that . I be grateful , in particular , to see the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) back in his place . I be particularly strike by the significant intellectual difference between he and those of we on the Government side of the House about the importance of the public realm and investment in our community in order for those place to flourish . I think that most of we on the Government Benches understand that we can not look to the horizon and seize those opportunity of entrepreneurialism unless we be secure in ourselves and our community and have those asset available . that be why the investment in our national health service be so important . there have be no assessment from the Conservatives of the importance or the potential or actual cost to business of day off due to sickness . long waiting list have cause insecurity and uncertainty in small business in my community , increase both cost through staff absence and pressure on management . it be important for we to have security as well as flexibility in our employment market . indeed , the small business owner Carly Cannings , who run the Happy Business School , have say that our Employment Rights Bill be " a set in the right direction towards raise standard . " – – [ Official Report , Employment Rights Public Bill Committee , 26 November 2024 ; c . 28 , Q22 . ] I know that responsible business owner want to ensure that they can recruit and retain staff . that be vital in small community such as mine , where our high street have be hollow out . do my hon . friend agree that Conservative Members could learn from that not - very - famous left winger , Henry Ford , who put up his worker ’ wage so that they could afford to buy his car ? I thank my hon . friend for that contribution . other consequence of the past 14 year for our high street include retail crime . I be sorry that the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) be no long in his place , because he speak strongly about the consequence of shoplifting . shoplifting rise by 70 % under the last Conservative Government , with 2 , 000 incident a day in 2023 - 24 . with that record , the Conservatives need to recognise that they be significantly responsible , rather than complain about what be happen now . I know that there be a significant issue with energy cost , because it be often raise with I by small business in my constituency . the reversal of the Conservatives ' commitment to net zero mean that they would be risk a shift away from renewable , but it be renewable that will help we to shift off the gas price . the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness should know that well . the reality be that the public realm matter when we be talk about ensure that we have a thriving high street . for example , there be now few bus . in Thanet we have see bus service cut dramatically — by 7 million bus mile in Kent alone since 2020 — and few police lead to the kind of situation that we have see . we also have insecure work with low pay , and fire and rehire . coastal community such as Scarborough , which have benefit from the safe street initiative , have see incident of antisocial behaviour drop by 23 % this year compare with the previous summer . do my hon . friend agree that the Labour Government , by tackle antisocial behaviour , be breathe new life into our high street and restore pride in our neighbourhood ? I agree with my hon . friend . it have be strike in my community to see the local social energy of our business , particularly in Ramsgate , come together to help tackle antisocial behaviour , work with the police and bear down on some of the bad excess of the consequence of the last 14 year . we also need to be aware of the consequence for small business of the fear and uncertainty bring on by the chaos of Brexit . the botched Brexit deal have have a direct impact on my community , particularly through the loss of our language school in place such as Ramsgate and Broadstairs . not all of they have be impact , but some of they have , and that reduce the footfall on our high street . that be a direct consequence of failure by the Conservatives . Ramsgate High Street , for example , have a 24 % vacancy rate , as I mention early . the British Property Federation , when confront with that statistic , suggest that that mean the people who own the business be simply economically irrational . well , there seem to be a lot of economic irrationality , which need to be counter by people who understand the importance of shape our place — hence our community compulsory auction lease and power for local authority such as Thanet to control the proliferation of vape shop and gambling centre . I be sure that the Minister will note my concern that there would be a great appetite for compulsory purchase if we have a well funding settlement for place such as Thanet when these thing come to pass . of course we need to reform business rate . we know that they be disproportionately impact on hospitality enterprise in place , such as my constituency , that rely significantly on the seasonal tourist economy , but I emphasise again the importance of the ability of community themselves to shape their high street , from Ramsgate Space and Margate Town Action Group — Order . I call Gagan Mohindra . as many have say , our high street be the heart of our community . from small retail and hospitality venture that allow people the opportunity to own their own business , to post office and pharmacy where the more vulnerable can go to see a familiar face and get support , to our pub , where people have gather together for year , our high street give we everything we need . we must support they , not restrict they . I spend much of my time in South West Hertfordshire on local high street , hear at first hand from many business owner about the struggle that they face due to labour ' s increase in national insurance contribution , and their worry about the upcoming Employment Rights Bill . my hon . friend talk eloquently about the problem face high street . one of my constituent , a publican , tell I that thing be bad than during covid , because at least there be financial support during covid . now , pub and other hospitality business be be hang out to dry . my hon . friend make an excellent point . the small business that I speak to say that they feel abandon by this Government . they face high energy bill and rent , and poor footfall . they have be harm by labour ' s decision , and have ever - grow worry about the Budget later this month . we already know that hospitality be struggle . one in five high street premise be empty , and 100 , 000 hospitality job have be lose since Labour ' s Budget . two third of those job lose be do by 18 to 24 - year - old . that be simply not sustainable . business owner do not want that to happen , but they have no choice . a third of business be reduce their opening hour as they simply can not afford to staff up . they include Kitchen Croxley in my constituency , which warn I that as a result of labour ' s policy change , job loss be inevitable , if it be to keep its door open . business of all size be affect . Hubs , a franchise owner in my constituency , make I aware that due to labour ' s national insurance contribution increase , his nic amount to £ 138 , 000 for April to September . he have be warn that his contribution could increase to over £ 275 , 000 for the business ' s first full - year cycle . that franchise owner be create 90 local job and fill a large high - street unit that sit unoccupied for over a year and a half . it simply seem unfair . business owner be willing to contribute their fair share — they be invest significant amount in our high street — and they should not be penalise for try to grow their business . the spirit industry disproportionally face the effect of these policy ; it have contribute £ 676 million less in taxis than expect , despite the rise in alcohol duty . one business in king Langley , Fells , which employ over 70 people in the area and regularly support charitable cause in the community , face mount cost and regulatory burden . it urge a freeze in duty rate to mitigate the need for further price increase . we be talk about an industry that contribute over £ 75 billion to the UK economy in 2022 , accord to the Wine and Spirit Trade Association . why be we stifle it ? this summer , I spend a week visit pub across South West Hertfordshire , to see how they be be affect by labour ' s decision making . I speak with Nick , the manager of the Coach and Horses in Rickmansworth , who tell I that the rise in the minimum wage and nic have make staff incredibly difficult . as I have say before , many business sympathise with the need to ensure job security and good working condition . however , that come at the cost of rise price , which just push the issue on to customer . rise price lead to few people visit pub and put their money back into the community . do my hon . friend agree that the Chancellor would do well to consider a draught beer duty relief ? we bring one in when we be in government . it could be balance up by taxis elsewhere . it would ensure that our local be support , instead of face ever great cost . my right hon . friend hit the nail on the head . member on all side of the House claim to support pub , but our policy mean that our position be a lot strong than this Labour Government ' s . as I have say before , where this Labour Government get it right , they will have our support . they should not be fearful of change direction — I will not use the word " u - turn " , because they have do a few of they already . we will absolutely support they change direction for the well . post office remain critical to our high street . they be a credible and trustworthy high - street brand , and a place where constituent regularly see a friendly face . I represent seven post office in South West Hertfordshire and visit they regularly , include the one in Croxley Green , which I visit just two week ago . I have see in person how busy postmaster serve the community . many postmaster see their regular frequently ; they be often the first to see how their customer be do . post office have evolve to provide service that go beyond just post . many now also provide banking service , owe to the closure of high - street bank . Danny , the postmaster at the Rickmansworth branch , be able to offer enhanced banking service . without they , my constituent would be stick wait for unreliable bus to travel to their near bank , just to access their money . in 2023 , when we be in government , we extend the retail , hospitality and leisure relief scheme . we will reverse this Government ' s decision not to support our high street . when it come to help our high street , I look forward to support from across the House , rather than political point scoring . this debate have remind I of the maiden speech we hear last year . we have have a really good tour of the country , take in Animal shop , fun palace and all sort of stuff . it have be great to talk about high street , which be more than just shopping street . they shape how people feel about where they live . when high street be thrive , people take pride in their town and feel a real sense of optimism about their area and , by extension , the country . when shop , caf é s and pub be close , that optimism fade , leave people discourage and look for change . if the Government want people to feel that their life be improve and their community be thrive , and if they want people to feel hopeful and optimistic , support the high street must be a priority . that will not only help our trader and shop survive , but help restore pride in our town . it will ensure that people be invest in the future of their community and , by extension , the country , rather than be draw to alternative voice offer quick fix . I hope that that will be an incentive for the Government to rethink those of their measure that have be hit the high street . I be really proud to represent a constituency with fantastic high street , include in Kingsbridge , Brixham , Modbury , Dartmouth , Salcombe and , of course , Totnes , which be widely praise for its unique high street , on which I be a trader in one of my past life . as attractive as those street be , in reality , all the trader be struggle . as many member have say , the increase in national insurance contribution have hit those business hard . one small caf é in Brixham face an extra £ 15 , 000 in national insurance cost this year . that be just unmanageable for a small caf é . I be tell by a large restaurant — part of a chain of 17 successful restaurant , which act as a magnet , bring people to community across south - west England — that the cost of the increase be equivalent to the money that would be spend open a new restaurant , and open a new restaurant would revitalise another town . that be so damaging . not only be the NIC rise cause hardship , but the reduction in business rate relief from 75 % to 40 % , combine with the abolition of the cap , effectively leave small business subsidise large chain . I be run out of time , but I would just like to add that eight pub be close every week , and nearly 100 , 000 hospitality job have be lose since the Budget . if that happen in any other industry , it would be headline news , but the Government seem oblivious to what be happen . we call on the Government to exempt hospitality sme from the employer national insurance contribution increase , and to consult on create a new band , from £ 5 , 000 , to reduce the cost of employ part - time and seasonal staff , who be absolutely vital to the hospitality industry . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the shadow Business and Trade Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , for ably set out the conservative case for restore our high street , and the cost and consequence of the Government ' s decision . as a former Woolies worker , and have chair the all - party parliamentary group on the future of retail , I be particularly passionate about our high street and their role as the lifeblood of our local community . we have hear brilliant example from right hon . and hon . member of fantastic high - street business in their community . few will be as incredible as those in Yarm , Stockton and Thornaby , but valid point be make . we hear about the huge threat to the full English in greasy spoon caf é s across the country , but price rise for mushroom , tomato and bacon pale into significance when compare with Labour ' s slashing of small business rate relief , its job tax and its unemployment right Bill . from Bognor Regis to Windsor , and from Doncaster to Crewe , we see the butcher ' s , the baker ' s and — less frequently — the candlestick maker ' s . our high street apparently offer everything , from wig to corn beef and spam , and member be rightly clearly proud of they . one of the message we have hear today be , " shop local and support local small business , " but another message be hear loud and clear . it probably come from member on both side of the Chamber . it be a message that be familiar to any Member who engage with local small business : our high street face an existential threat , and the problem be compound by the choice of this Government . we be a nation of shopkeeper . my hon . friend be make a good point . as I often point out to my constituent when talk about the future of the high street — the situation will be similar in other constituency — there be approximately 50 , 000 household in my constituency , and if each one of those spend £ 5 per week support a local business , that is £ 1 million per month that stay in the local economy . if we multiply that , it become quite powerful support for local business , and help their long - term vitality . it be a clear message : " stop scroll through Amazon , and go buy local — it ' ll benefit your local economy greatly . " high street define place . their success allow we to feel pride in our town . they be a place where people come together . they help we to tackle social isolation , and they be often the place where people get their first job , and their last . the retail , hospitality and leisure sector employ 5 . 8 million people , and generate billion of pound for our economy . do the shadow Minister agree that those 5 . 8 million people deserve a decent wage , deserve to know what hour they be work , and deserve proper sick pay ? my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs make a very good point : we do not support worker by bankrupt their employer . in the nine month before this Government take office , 22 , 000 job be create in the hospitality sector , and in the nine month since the last Budget , 100 , 000 people lose their job — their ability to provide for their family , and to live out their aspiration and dream . that be a disgrace . the sector be also the natural home of social mobility . it allow people to climb and achieve incredible thing . there be so many story of people who start by stack shelf and serve coffee , and who go on to reach the boardroom . without doubt , our high street be really struggle . the truth be that they be batter by the Chancellor ' s Budget last autumn — a £ 25 billion tax bombshell on british business and job , as a result of measure include the job tax and the slashing of small business rate relief . conservative Members understand that business need to be support , not tie up in red tape and tax into extinction . if this Labour Government do not change course , we risk make our high street unrecognisable and unrecoverable . the problem be clear for all to see : high taxis , punitive business rate , soar energy cost , rise crime and more red tape and paperwork for employer . the Government must take urgent action to fix that . I be grateful to the hon . member for give way ; he be be generous with his time . I wonder if he could clarify his party ' s position on the Employment Rights Bill . the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , say that a Conservative Government would seek to repeal what he call the most damaging element of the Bill . could he set out for we which measure they welcome and would retain ? basically , Labour ' s trade union paymaster seem to have write a large part of the Bill . in fact , we find a really rare thing today : one employer on the face of the earth who apparently support the Bill be mention early , but of course , they be not british . in my constituency in Stockton , almost every time I visit a small business owner , they tell I the same story : since the Chancellor ' s Budget , they have have to let staff go or reduce their hour ; they have have to put up price , and some be now consider whether there be any future at all for their business . as the chief exec of ukhospitality have say , pub , bar and restaurant be already close early because of the job tax , and more than 200 lead hospitality business have write to the Chancellor to warn that her decision will force company to cut job and reconsider investment . too many business be close . too many job be be lose . Boarded - up high street will eat away at the pride people can have in their community and town centre . throughout today ' s debate , we have hear Labour MP after Labour MP — soon , I be sure , to be follow by the Minister — talk about the virtue of their Government ' s policy . I have to ask they , have they seriously have a conversation with the small business on their local high street about the challenge they face ? we be now just a couple of week away from the Chancellor ' s next Budget . she have the opportunity to change course , yet this morning we hear the same old story , with the Chancellor lay the groundwork for more tax rise — another nail in the coffin of our high street , alongside people and business across the country . but we on the conservative Benches have a clear plan for strong high street . first , we would abolish business rate for thousand of retail , hospitality and leisure business . that would benefit a quarter of a million business — saving that would not only help they thrive , but could be reinveste in well premise , low price , and more job . it would lift thousand of business out of business rate all together . be my hon . friend as shock as I be to find that the liberal Democrats have join their comrade in Labour in say that not a penny can be save from public expenditure , and instead more taxis must be impose on business that be already struggle with the weight ? they need to go back on YouTube — we ' ll encourage a bit of online interaction — and listen to that fantastic speech from the Leader of the Opposition about the £ 47 billion of saving that can be make , that will be support by the public , and that can help we balance the book and save high street business . another issue face business that have be highlight by many hon . member be the impact of energy bill . Britain have the high electricity price in the world . it do not have to be this way . the situation be make our high street business less competitive and stifle economic growth . that be why we would axe the carbon tax and scrap net zero subsidy to reduce the cost of electricity . that would of course benefit consumer , but also businesse ; the average restaurant would save £ 5 , 100 a year . the third point in relation to our plan for strong high street be strong policing . under this Labour Government , crime be on the rise in high street across the country , erode community trust and public safety . it be have a huge impact on our high street . indeed , just a few week ago I meet Costa Coffee , a well - know high street chain . despite its huge resource , its representative tell I that they face constant theft , and even ram - raid to steal sandwich and drink — an unbelievable situation . even Greggs — one of the nation ' s favourite , and mine — have have to start lock up its sandwich , soft drink and sausage roll in some location , because of prolific shoplifting . in fact , shoplifting have rise by 20 % in this Labour Government ' s first year in office . that be the high figure since modern record begin , but it be no surprise because police number be fall . there be 1 , 316 few police officer since this Labour Government come to power . as part of our plan , we will hire 10 , 000 extra police officer back by £ 800 million in funding . we will end labour ' s early release scheme to keep criminal behind bar , introduce intense police hotspot patrol in area to cover serious violent crime and robbery , and treble stop and search to take knife and weapon off our street . we will also redirect resource to catch real criminal , abolish non - crime hate incident so that police can spend 60 , 000 more hour police our street and not our tweet . will the shadow Minister confirm that under the previous Conservative Administration , thief could get £ 200 worth of good with impunity , and that have change under this government ? that be a complete and utter myth . the hon . Gentleman will be able to check the Government fact and stat that will confirm that 90 % of all case of people charge with shop theft relate to good under £ 200 — would he believe it ? indeed , I have a question for he and I will let he answer : could he name a single police force in the country that have a policy of not action theft of under £ 200 ? I be very happy to intervene . we be talk about change the status quo under the hon . Gentleman ' s Government . not a single police force in the country have that policy , and 90 % of all case with charge for shop theft involve good under the value of £ 200 . that be a fact , and what the hon . Gentleman say be a myth . at the heart of our high street lie entrepreneurship — those incredible people who get up early , take the risk and build something . they create job , wealth and opportunity . this Labour Government have spend the last year make it hard to start a business . that mean that now just one in four young people who want to start a business do so , as highlight by the Federation of Small Businesses . we need to cut red tape so that our business can breathe again . we need to make it easy for entrepreneur to open a bank account and engage with HMRC , and we need to expand business coach in school . it be no surprise that those on the Government Benches just do not get it ; just one member of the Cabinet have start their own business , and less than half of they have ever work in the private sector . let I conclude with this point . the high street be suffer . as a result , people who have invest their life in create business be suffer , those youngster who might have be able to get their first job on the high street be suffer , and those old people who feel pride in their town for year and decade be now watch as shop be board up and they be suffer too . analysis of insolvency notice have reveal that business be close at the fast rate since the world economic crash , and as a result 17 % more people be without a job . tonight be a chance to join the Conservatives in back the people who work hard and do the right thing . any Member of this House who want to support our high street , the entrepreneur who work hard and do the right thing , and more job opportunity for people — young and old — and any Member who want to ensure that people can continue to have pride in their town centre should support the motion and our plan for strong high street . I commend the motion to the House . it have be a pleasure to listen and respond to this passionate debate . before we get into the thing on which we may disagree , I should say that it have be really interesting to hear how many time people have use metaphor like " heart and soul " and " backbone " when talk about their local high street and local business . this issue be personal to we ; it be about how we feel about the place we live in . as a former retail worker , I remember the customer who would come in and maybe pay more than they would at the big supermarket because they get that personal touch . I remember the elderly customer who would come in , and I know that I be perhaps the only other human being that they have have a conversation with that day . this be about entrepreneurship and business , but , as someone say , it be also about the soul of our community . it have be fantastic to listen to so many member talk with great pride about high street and business in their community . the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) invite we to Downing Street ; I hope that be the only time that a right winger invite I to Downing Street for some year to come . we have a cultural trip to Weymouth and hear about the exciting plan there . I may also have a pint at the Swan in Windsor next time I go to Legoland with my child . as someone who be no stranger to the sweet trolley , I look forward to the Cosy Cake Shop and Death by Fudge in Doncaster and also to another pint at the Fox & Goose and the t - Bar ; I do not remember terribly much about the last time I be in there , because I be on a stag do . so much pride have be express , and I hope that everyone in the Chamber will repeat that pride in their local high street in a few day ' time on Small Business Saturday , because it help to drive footfall and to support those local people . we hear lot of talk from member across the House . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) raise the issue of business rate and business rate reform . the Government be to remove barrier to investment , and to help business to succeed and grow . reform business rate be a key manifesto pledge , and it be one that we be go to fulfil . the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , for whom I have some affection , and the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) , both quote Napoleon — I do not know if that be a signal that they be not go to cross the Floor to Reform . I will be slightly more patriotic and quote Nelson : we can not " turn a blind eye " to the cost of the tax measure that the Conservatives set out . fiscal credibility and sustainability be not abstract concept . because we get the public finance under control , small business across this country have low borrowing cost , and because of those interest rate , people across the country have more money in their pocket . we need a real plan , not a fantasy , which be why we will introduce permanently low business rate for retail and hospitality in the Budget . I previously try to ask about the Government amendment that be go to be vote on , because it explicitly state that the administrative burden of regulation for business will be cut by 25 % . I have two question : what be that 25 % of and how will it be judge , and will it be from before or after the Employment Rights Bill come into law ? I put those question to the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , the hon . member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , but she dodge it and decide to attack the opposition . I would be grateful if the Minister could tell I , because it be key information for the vote on the amendment . we make it clear a few day ago that we plan to reduce the administrative cost of the regulatory burden by nearly £ 6 billion , and that be what we will do . conservative Members have speak about the Employment Rights Bill and their intention to repeal it , but they be forget that that Bill will set up a single regulator for the labour market , which will actually reduce red tape for business across the country . let I try to help the Minister , because conservative member be very keen to know the answer , and probably many of his colleague be keen to know it too . it be one thing to say , " we would like to reduce the cost by 25 % " — sure you would ! the question be : how do the Government think they be go to realise saving of 25 % ? why — it ' s your amendment , Chris ! that be what you be vote for . it be the Government amendment in an Opposition day debate . how be those 25 % saving go to be realise ? in a moment , I will come to our plan to reduce the mountain of red tape that the right hon . member ' s Government leave we with , and to reduce the cost of that red tape . conservative Member after Conservative Member speak about the Employment Rights Bill . I should say at the outset that we want the right in that Bill to be fit for the 21st century — the last time that we properly review our employment law and the relationship between employer and employee be in the last century . however , I be astonish that right hon . and hon . member on the conservative Benches do not seem to see the connection between how much money people have in their pocket and the ability of their local high street to thrive . give people more secure work and high wage mean that the money in their pocket end up in the till of local business . I be very grateful to the hon . member for give way — he be a friend , and he be a great man , but he be entirely wrong on this question . the argument he be make be a correct one , which be why I advocate for lower taxis . however , this Government have raise taxis and rate for business , and if we be to believe what the Chancellor have be say this morning , we have all be warn that she be about to raise taxis on individual as well . that be cost we all , because people be rein in their spending in anticipation of be poor . I will return the compliment to my right hon . friend before I disagree with he . this be the problem ; there be a certain cheek to the conservative party leave we a burn building and then criticise we for reach for the fire hose . we have to stabilise the public finance — and again , that be not abstract . the Conservatives have to learn the lesson — here come the groan — from the Liz Truss Budget . they have to learn that lesson , because this be not abstract for business . return to the issue of strip out the cost of red tape , in March the Government pledge in our regulation action plan to cut the cost of regulatory burden by 25 % . at the regional investment summit last month , my right hon . friend the Chancellor and the Business Secretary make a great start on that , create an additional £ 230 million of saving for business by change the requirement on director ’ report for business of any size . as the Minister will be aware , accord to the Government , that figure be less than 5 % of the cost impose on business by the Employment Rights Bill . the cost of the Employment Rights Bill be around 0 . 4 % of wage cost across the country , and the additional help that the Bill provide will have a huge impact on small business and high street . many member raise the issue of crime , but let I reassure the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , who speak of the character of local area , and suggest that there should be great local power to control the spread of gambling shop . we intend to deal with that when time allow . for 10 year we wait for a small business strategy , and in July we introduce one . we be take action on late payment for business , on access to finance and on cut red tape . across this government there be an urgency — it be there today , and I wish it have be there before — to support small business and help to get our high street back on their foot . question put , that the original word stand part of the question . Jim Allister Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Wendy Morton David Mundell Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Jeremy Wright Andrew Snowden Katie Lam Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Janet Daby Emily Darlington Paul Davies Shaun Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Margaret Mullane Chris Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Jonathan Pearce David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Joe Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Jade Botterill Gregor Poynton the House divide : Ayes 106 , Noes 321 . question accordingly negative . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) , that the propose word be there add . question agree to . the Deputy Speaker declare the main question , as amend , to be agree to ( Standing Order no . 31 ( 2 ) ) . resolve , that this House recognise the need to rejuvenate high street follow 14 year of decline under the previous Administration ; welcome the Government ' s action to restore Pride in Place back by £ 5 billion to support 339 location to empower community to drive meaningful change in their local area , include high street ; support local community be give new power to tackle vacancy , and prevent new betting and vape shop in their area , include the ability to auction off persistently empty premise through High Street Rental Auctions ; far welcome the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill that will ban upwards - only rent review in commercial lease , help to create fair rental condition ; endorse the Government ' s support for property owner ; also welcome that from April 2026 , eligible retail , hospitality , and leisure property with rateable value below £ 500 , 000 will benefit from permanently low business rate multiplier ; welcome the Plan for Small Businesses which support high street small business as the backbone of local economy and which commit to cut the administrative burden of regulation for business by 25 % ; and far recognise that the Employment Rights Bill will bring employment right legislation into the 21st century , extend the protection that many small business already offer their worker to all . Welfare Spending I inform the House that Mr Speaker have not select either of the amendment table . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I beg to move , that this House regret the failure of the Government to get people off welfare and into work ; believe that reform the welfare system be a moral mission ; and therefore call on the Government to take urgent action to fix Britain ' s welfare system by restrict welfare for non - UK citizen , stop benefit for those with low - level mental health condition , increase the number of face - to - face assessment , reform the Motability Scheme so that only those with serious disability qualify for a vehicle , and retain the two - child benefit cap , to get people into employment and build a strong economy . all of we surely remember our first job and the moment we get our first paycheque . I be 16 , I get pay £ 40 and I buy myself a pair of shoe . they be nothing fancy , but I remember that feeling . it be the first time I have money in my pocket that I have earn to spend how I please . it be a moment of liberation from which there be no go back . of course , as we get old , it be not so simple . we have more obligation and bill to pay , but the basic fact be the same . have a job and pay our own way be how we get independence , freedom and agency . we can make our own choice and have a chance to build up our financial security . not every job take we on a path pave with gold , but if we be not in work , we do not even have a chance of change our fortune . million of people up and down the country know what I be talk about . they be the people who get up each morning and go to work , or the people who go to work every evening if they be do a night shift , while some people be do both to make end meet . however , it be not everyone : in fact , it be not a lot of people . let we look at the number . there be 6 . 5 million people of work age on out - of - work benefit , nearly 1 million young people be not in any form of employment , education or training , and every single day 5 , 000 people be sign on to long - term sickness benefit with no requirement to work . those number should worry all of we in this place . they be not just statistic ; we be talk about people — mum , dad , woman in their 50 , young man in their 20 — who be miss out , sit at home rather than at work , and wait for the handout to drop into their bank account rather than out there put their shoulder to the wheel . for every person on benefit and out of work , there be many more who suffer the consequence of worklessness , such as the increase number of child who be grow up in workless household . More than 1 million child across our country have neither the income nor the culture of work , so worklessness get pass from one generation to the next , stunt life chance — opportunity , prosperity and longevity — in every sense of the word . this apply to entire community : there be large part of our country where be on benefit be not a rarity , it have become the norm . from our great city such as Birmingham and Liverpool to historic seaside town such as Blackpool , around a quarter of the population be in out - of - work benefit . drop into some of the poor area of those city and you will find community where the majority of people be on benefit . think what that mean in practice along a street , door after door . and watch out if you be the odd one out actually try to go to work , as I hear on one of my visit recently . a whole family be yell at their son , who be try to break the cycle of worklessness , because his 7 am alarm clock be disturb their sleep . as shadow Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , I travel the country talk to people and find out the fact on the ground . one story that stick with I be about a young man in his 20 from Bridgend in Wales . he be on benefit , but he get a place on a course at the local college — the exact course he want to do . it have the potential to give he skill and transform his life . it could have get he off benefit and into work at the job he really want to do , but it do not happen . why ? because he be terrify of be bad off — that he would lose his personal independence payment and end up break . that be wrong . and let we be frank : his story be not a one - off . it be go on all around the country . everywhere , every day , people be decide they be well off on benefit . our welfare system should be a safety net but it have become a welfare trap , condemn people to live off the state rather than off their elbow grease . of course , help should be there for people who be unable to work or who need a lot of support to do so . in fact , if the system work well , it might be able to help some people — those who really need it — more . instead , we have many thousand of people make rational decision to claim benefit rather than work , the benefit bill rocket , and still people who be disable face a struggle to get help and make end meet . do the hon . Lady not recognise that personal independence payment be not a benefit pay on your ability to work — it be pay regardless — so provide that case study be perhaps not the most appropriate to make the argument she be try progress ? of course I know that , but if the hon . Lady have talk to as many people who receive PIP as I have , she would know that many people worry that if they go into training or work , they will then , when they be reassess , lose their PIP . even though in theory , yes , you can work if you can while you be get PIP , people worry that because they be work it will be then be see as they not actually need it and that they do not actually have that level of health problem . that be why at the moment it be act , in the way in work , as a barrier and a disincentive to work , and that be why it need reform . reform welfare be not cruel to people on benefit — quite the opposite . what be cruel be duck the challenge , accept the status quo and continue to spend million of pound of taxpayer ' money on keep people on benefit , but that be exactly what the Labour party be do . just a few month ago , the Prime Minister and the former Work and Pensions Secretary do have a go at do something about it . they set out some welfare cut — rush and poorly think - through , as I say at the time — but their Back Benchers be have none of it . we have never see anything like it . it be the very definition of shamble in this Chamber . right in the middle of the debate , their saving Bill become a spending Bill , with the Government frantically make concession that we still live with , such as the timms review into PIP . I have a great deal of respect for the Minister for Social Security and Disability , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , but what hope can we have for his review when it be conceive as a bargaining chip to buy off angry Back Benchers ? it have take month to even kick off the review and month to come up with the term of reference . now we have they , we see that welfare saving be off the table . and yes , I say " saving " , a word the Secretary of State be careful to steer clear of in question last week . what a situation this be . the Chancellor keep talk about welfare saving ; she do so again this morning . however , the review by the Minister for Social Security and Disability rule out make any saving . the Secretary of State will not even utter the word . who will win this argument ? will it be the hapless Chancellor with she back against the wall or the wily Welfare Secretary play a long game ? while Ministers spar behind the political scene , the clock be tick and the benefit bill keep head up and up towards £ 100 billion , with no prospect of the Government slow that trajectory , let alone actually get it down . instead , as the Chancellor as good as tell we this morning , the Government will turn to tax rise to fund welfare and more job - destroy , growth - kill policy , reduce opportunity and saddle future generation with the bill , leave they to pay it off for decade to come . the Government have not only give up on save money ; they have give up on million of people across Britain . on saving and leave the next generation with a bill , can the hon . Lady remind the House just how much the now shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) , increase Department for Work and Pensions spend on welfare during his time in the Department ? the figure I have on the tip of my tongue be somewhere north of £ 30 billion . could she comment on that ? the hon . Gentleman think he be so clever , but I be sorry to say this be a whole lot more serious than that . [ interruption . ] I be glad Labour Members like that . the fact be , if the hon . Gentleman look a little far than his time in politic , back to 2010 , he would know that the welfare bill and unemployment figure come down , and that we have the huge reform of universal credit , lead by my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , which make a huge difference . [ interruption . ] as have be chuntere by those on the Government Front Bench , yes , of course , the pandemic make a difference . we have a set of reform go on , and then those on the Front Bench and some of their predecessor — there have be a certain amount of turnover — come in and give up on those reform . where be we now ? there be no saving and no plan to get people off welfare and into work . however , it do not have to be this way . the country know that this be not work , and people want change . they want a fair system : one where people who do the right thing be reward ; where work do pay ; where people take personal responsibility for themselves and their family make sense ; where there be help for those who need it , but not for just anyone who might fancy it ; and where welfare be a safety net , not a way of life . it might be hard for member on the Government Benches to hear , but this be what people out there want . they want it now — let we get on with it . the Conservatives have set out our common - sense proposal to start fix the welfare system . we would stop sickness benefit for people with low - level mental health condition like anxiety and reform Motability , put an end to taxpayer - fund car for people who have condition like ADHD and tennis elbow . we would bring back face - to - face assessment , which be go down under this Labour Government , and change the sick note system so that it do not just funnel people out of the office and on to benefit . we would prioritise Brits in our welfare system , stop people with indefinite and limited leave to remain claim benefit . of course , we also believe in retain the two - child benefit cap , because it be fiscally responsible and fair . remove the cap would cost more than £ 3 billion and would be deeply unfair on family who be not on benefit — the couple who decide they can not afford another child , but would pay taxis for someone else to do just that . the Conservatives be the only party fully commit to the two - child benefit cap — no ifs , no but . I have read somewhere that the list of thing the hon . Lady have go through would , the Conservatives estimate , save £ 23 billion . part of that be from housing benefit . can she tell we how much of the £ 23 billion would be save from housing benefit ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question . as he say , we have earmark potential saving of £ 23 billion , and housing benefit be one area . there be the other set of saving that I have just go through . I be very happy to go through some of our sum and how we have get to those figure with he . as I have say to he , I believe that this government should be pick up on our suggestion , because that be how they could bring down the welfare bill and avoid what we see the Chancellor clearly roll the pitch for this morning : tax rise at the Budget . time be hard . I do not want the Government to put up taxis . I do not want they to keep spend other people ' s money on welfare , because we all know that one day it will run out . I do not want they to keep people live a life on benefit rather than be in work . that be why I have be so clear about what they could and should do . I have hear Labour Back Benchers say in this Chamber , " I didn ' t come here to cut benefit " , and that be why we have offer to help . the Leader of the Opposition , the shadow Chancellor and I have make a big offer to the Government . we will help they make welfare saving , and we will work with they in good faith to get the welfare bill down and get people off welfare and into work . labour Back Benchers do not want to make the tough decision on welfare , but our door be open . we will work with the Government in the national interest . it be not too late to make those bold decision and make serious saving . a vote for our motion be a vote to get Britain ' s welfare system back on track , to get the welfare bill under control , and to set out on a moral mission to get million off welfare and into work . I enjoy listen to the shadow Secretary of State ' s fierce critique of the state of the benefit system that be leave behind after 14 year of Tory government . she make some good point about it . by contrast , this Government be build a welfare system that be proactive and pro - work , have opportunity at its heart , and will change life for the well — in rather the way she suggest that the system need . for every person we can help into good work , it will mean a well life for they and well mental health and finance . it will be well for the public purse as well . get people off welfare and into work require an active approach , and we do have a plan . the system leave behind by the last government of passive benefit processing be simply not up to the job . that be why they leave behind , as the shadow Secretary of State say , nearly a million young people not in education , employment or training , and 2 . 8 million people economically inactive through long - term ill health . we be determined to put those failure right . my right hon . friend be make a great introduction , because the conservative clearly need to be remind of their failure over 14 year in government . during their time in office , the disability employment gap remain stubbornly at 30 % . do my right hon . friend agree that it be only this Labour Government who will do all they can to ensure that disabled people have opportunity for work ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the disability employment gap fall steadily under the previous Labour Government , but it have be stick at about 30 % ever since 2010 . there be one moment in those 14 long year of Tory rule when it look as though they plan to do something about it . in the middle of the 2015 general election campaign , David Cameron announce a target of halve the disability employment gap . it be like they suddenly wake up at that moment , but as soon as that election have be safely win , they scrap the target . they just go back to passive benefit processing again . the Minister be a good man , and I mean that sincerely . I think he understand and share the faith that I have when it come to look after those who be less well off . every day in my office I meet constituent who have disability or complex health need , anxiety and depression or severe mobility issue and people whose health problem be impact their family . they be burden with financial pressure . those who can not cope with life must not be penalise . can the Minister reassure we that the vulnerable will not become a target for the Government or indeed anyone in this Chamber ? yes , I can . I will come on to talk about that in a couple of minute . in contrast to the passive approach of the last government , we will be active . we be invest in and join up work , health and skill support . we have bring adult skill and apprenticeship , further education , training and career into the DWP so that we be well able to give people the skill to thrive in today ' s economy and to enable they to move into good secure job . at the minute , an estimate 13 million household in this country — just over 50 % of all household — be net recipient from the state , rather than net contributor to it . what would the Minister expect that figure to be by the end of this Parliament ? the hon . Gentleman make another interesting reflection on the state of the system leave behind by 14 year of Tory government . we be go to be make progress , as I say . our plan will help deliver our ambition not just for job but for national renewal by build new home , make the NHS fit for the future and power the shift to green energy . among people of work age , those with low or no qualification be some 2 . 5 time more likely to be out of work than those who be well qualified . just close that gap would mean a million extra people in work . but skill be not the only barrier ; for many , it be ill health , and we be determined to get people back to work and back to good health . we will open up more opportunity for people who have be out of work because of ill health in the past with WorkWell employment adviser embed directly in healthcare team , from GP surgery to mental health service . will the Minister give way ? I will make a bit more headway first . connect to Work will go to the end of the decade to support 300 , 000 disabled people and people with health and other complex barrier to employment to get into and get on in work . our pathway to Work guarantee , back by an additional £ 1 billion a year by the end of the decade , will bring all that together with personalised work , health and skill support for anybody on out - of - work benefit with a health condition or disability who want that support . we already have 1 , 000 new pathway to work adviser in place , work in jobcentre across the country to help disabled people . a few week ago I meet a couple of they in Edinburgh , and they tell I of the positive reaction from the people they ring up . the system give up on those people year ago , but we have not give up on they . the Minister mention WorkWell , which be a fantastic scheme introduce in 2023 that deal with 59 , 000 people through £ 64 million of Conservative Government investment . I be glad that the Government be take that forward and look to expand it . my concern as a GP be about try to get more people on the premise . where will the work coach go when premise do not have the space ? that delivery be really important . will he explain what have happen from the pilot to where we be now and how this will be take forward ? the hon . Gentleman raise a good , practical point . quite a lot of GP surgery certainly do have space and welcome work coach or an adviser on to the premise , but he be right that that do not work everywhere , so we need to be flexible and have a local approach for each area . that be what connect to work will deliver . we also need to stop people from fall out of work unnecessarily in the first place due to ill health . stop work be often not in the interest of either the employee or the employer , but far too often it happen by default . therefore , Sir Charlie Mayfield have be lead the Keep Britain Working review on how Government and business can work together for more inclusive , healthy workplace . he will report his finding very soon . this active approach be particularly important for young people , as the shadow Secretary of State suggest in her opening remark . after 14 year , so many be leave not in employment , education or training , and be out of work for a long time at the start of what should be work life do long - term damage to their health , earning potential and prospect . there be obviously consequence for the social security system as well . if we do not get somebody on a productive path early on , it can be really hard to change course far down the line , so we be expand the number of youth hub , partner with sport club to get help to people in the community and develop a youth guarantee to ensure that 18 to 21 - year - old be earn or learn . as the Chancellor announce last month , learn from the success of Labour ' s future job scheme , that will include a job guarantee . our youth guarantee trailblazer be up and run , innovate and test out the good way to join up support and make the most of young people ' s talent and potential , from mental health support to flexible work experience session . those trailblazer will inform the national roll - out of the guarantee so that everybody have the chance to start off their work life on the right foot . we be reform jobcentre by introduce the job and career service : a universal service , move away from one - size - fit - all and offer much more personalised support . we be also test change to the claimant commitment as we look to free up work coach . I be listen carefully to everything the Minister say , include about be productive . the key for he be that for the first time sickness benefit be now within universal credit , which also include all other benefit . that give a face - to - face opportunity with all these staff . as he get more people back to work — particularly those who have mental health problem such as depression and anxiety , for which work be a health treatment , as the health service will say — do he anticipate calculate on the back of that whether any money will be save as a result ? if so , will he at some stage come up with a plan for save that money ? I do envisage that , as people get back to work , there will be saving on social security . I think we will see at the Budget projection from the Office for Budget Responsibility of future move into employment as a result of the change that we be make , and saving will certainly arise . we want our work coach , as the right hon . Gentleman have just point out , to spend less time on bureaucracy and more time on what they do good , which be give people the benefit of their expertise and help people move close to work . good work will also be a key part of the child poverty strategy , which we will bring forward by the end of the year . we will tackle child poverty by increase family income , reduce family cost , build financial resilience and improve local support . some people will remember that I take the Child Poverty Act 2010 through Parliament , with all - party support at the time . it be quickly scrap by the coalition Government and the number of child grow up in poverty have go up by 900 , 000 since then . welfare spending have also rocket . reduce both child poverty and welfare spending be not opposite . will my right hon . friend join I in recognise the benefit to the labour market of the roll - out of 30 hour of free childcare ? I meet a single mum in my constituency who be take on more hour to support her family . that will help her child get out of poverty , thank to this Government ' s effort . my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be a welcome and much - need step . the early year be crucial to somebody ' s life chance . ensure that child grow up happy , healthy and able to fulfil their potential be certainly , to borrow a phrase from the motion , " a moral mission " . however , it be also about reduce demand on social security , instead of sit on our hand like the last government and leave the system to pick up high cost far down the line . the child poverty strategy will build on our cross - Government approach to lift people out of poverty through roll out free breakfast club , raise the national minimum wage and , as my hon . friend the Member for York Outer ( Mr Charters ) point out , expand free childcare and free school meal to all family on universal credit . it will be an ambitious strategy and in develop it we will consider all the lever available to give every child the good start in life . to make work pay : that be what universal credit be intend to do . yet it be leave with perverse disincentive to work in the system , force people , as many do , to aspire to be classify as sick in order to qualify for a high payment . we have address that by rebalance the payment in universal credit , alongside other reform . the system should not force people to aspire to be classify as sick ; it should promote and encourage work and provide support to make work feasible . as the shadow Secretary of State kindly mention , we be progress the review , which I be responsible for . will the Minister give way ? I will make a little more headway . the review will be co - produce with disabled people , to ensure that the system support disabled people to achieve well health , high living standard and great independence , include through work . we will also carry out more face - to - face assessment over the next year , boost the number of health professional work in assessment centre . face - to - face assessment be stop for understandable reason during the pandemic , but they be never really bring back . the place where they be carry out be sell off and we be have to reinstate and rebuild that service . the Minister talk about perverse disincentive and aspire to be classify as sick . do he accept that , with sickness benefit , someone will get £ 2 , 500 more than if they be on the national living wage full time ? if that be the case , which it be , what be his plan to reverse that perverse disincentive ? we have make major change in the Universal Credit Act 2025 , which will take effect in April of next year . we be make the change that be need . lastly , when build a more active welfare system , we need to ensure that every penny we spend go on the support that it be design to provide . that be why the Public Authorities ( Fraud , Error and Recovery ) Bill be work its way back through this House under the guidance of the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my hon . friend the Member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) , as we speak . in that Bill , there be new power for the Department to tackle fraud and error , so that we can realise £ 1 . 5 billion in benefit by 2029 - 30 . those be among wide measure that we expect will save £ 9 . 6 billion over the same period . that be need , give that on the previous Government ' s watch , in 2023 - 24 , fraud against the public sector stand at an estimate £ 55 billion . in the same year , benefit fraud alone be £ 7 . 3 billion . there be a lot to be do . nothing frustrate genuine welfare claimant more than see claimant who be not deserve , or who be defraud the system . in Northern Ireland , the cost of fraud be £ 240 million per annum and , to be honest , that be just the tip of the iceberg , give the restriction around investigation . in Northern Ireland , the Communities Minister have start name and shame . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that there need to be a UK - wide strategy on fraud to ensure that those in real need do not miss out ? it be vital that we make sure that those in real need do not miss out , and I can reassure the hon . Lady that I be in fairly regular contact with her colleague in the Northern Ireland Assembly . these be certainly thing that the two government need to discuss . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make a bit more progress . we have see what happen when social security be not manage properly . we have see the consequence for child poverty and for the many thousand deny the opportunity to work — people who want to work , and who could work , with the right support . we be take action now to give people the good chance in life , so that they can support themselves and their family . we be deliver on our plan to make work pay , include by remove the work disincentive from universal credit . we be join up support , so that people get proper help into work . we be give child and young people the good possible start in life and be set they up to succeed in future . unlike the previous Government , we be not resign to failure . we be invest in success , in work , in health , and in skill support to provide hope for a well future . we be actively help people along their own path to work , and create an opportunity welfare state . we have make a great start , but there be a huge amount still to do , and I welcome this chance to seek the House ' s support for our mission . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , Steve Darling . it be important that the House , first of all , reflect on where the Conservatives leave our community when they leave power . we should reflect on the fact that the number of people who be economically inactive have go up from 2 . 1 million in 2019 to 2 . 8 million . the fact that the bill for incapacity benefit have go up from £ 34 billion to £ 51 billion be quite shocking . it be interesting that the Conservatives feel able to share their pearl of wisdom with the Chamber after leave the world in such a sorry state . the Conservatives have climb into the gutter to produce the proposal before we this evening ; Disraeli and Peel must be turn in their grave . there be some real challenge . we need a true culture change , both in the benefit system and in the employment world , to help people get into work . that culture change should involve we take a trauma - inform approach , in the DWP , in our civil service and in our society , so that we can help people who can work into work . I would also like to reflect on the sorry state in which the Conservatives leave our nhs after they starve it of cash and fail to invest in it for many year . it be a great pity that so many resident come to I in my first year as MP for Torbay to tell I that they be unable to have the operation they require , due to the Conservatives ' lack of investment over many year . they bleed money out of the capital system to cover the cost of revenue . that be utterly shameful . Torbay hospital continue to crumble and , sadly , under the new Labour Government , we still see £ 250 million of in - year cut to our NHS service . while the Conservatives undermine those with mental health challenge , Devon partnership NHS trust be set for £ 21 million in cut . it be the Conservative Government who bring in the mental health investment standard to ensure parity for mental health . it be this Government who make the capital cut the hon . gentleman mention , and who be not meet the standard . I be intrigue ; why do he think that there be so much difficulty understand that , and why be the Labour Government make cut to mental health payment ? I thank the hon . member . I reflect on the savage cut make to public health spending . I would particularly mention the number of people who sleep rough on our street . I campaign on the issue as a young Liberal , more than 30 year ago . sadly , those rough sleeper be just the tip of the iceberg when it come to the challenge in our society . the cut face by the Devon partnership trust be a real challenge . I want to move on to access to work . minister have say on the record that it be one of the Government ' s good keep secret , but I fear that it have not perform as strongly as it could in drive people into work . in fact , I and other have real concern that change to the system could undermine it . someone with a disability be 50 % more likely to be out of work . a quarter of people who be register blind be in work . that clearly mean that 75 % be out of work — those be shocking figure . the Liberal Democrats welcome the Charlie Mayfield report on how we can engage appropriately with the employment world , and on the positive lesson that can be learn from our nearby colleague in Europe . I look forward to that come forward , but perhaps the Government put the cart before the horse ; the report should have be undertake before the Employment Rights Bill be progress . finally , I come to a policy that Liberal Democrats have vote against on three occasion in this Parliament : the two - child limit and the benefit cap . what choice be there for the widow and her child ? I be shocked that the Conservatives have such heartlessness that they be turn their back on those individual . some 4 . 5 million child — that is , every third child — live in poverty in the United Kingdom . in a visit that I make to Barton Hill academy in recent year , I ask the kid what they like and do not like about Torbay . their answer be not so much about thing like litter ; they be more about mum and dad not be able to make end meet . I wonder how many of those youngster be impact by the two - child limit . in conclusion , there be element of the Bill that we liberal Democrats welcome , such as the ability that it will give we to manage the benefit bill , and a return to face - to - face assessment where possible , but other be totally derisible . we see the benefit system as be akin to our NHS : it should be there to support people in live their good life . we will therefore not support the motion . rise — Order . with an immediate four - minute time limit , I call Luke Akehurst . it be beyond belief that Conservative Members have choose today to shine a spotlight on the subject of welfare , when their record on it be one of failure , chaos and incompetence . under the previous Conservative Government , welfare spending balloon out of control . the final Office for Budget Responsibility forecast on their watch project that annual welfare spending would increase by close to £ 100 billion by 2028 - 29 . that be enough to fund the entire NHS for a year , but instead , the money be spend patch up the consequence of conservative failure . the Conservatives now want to run from their record . the Leader of the Opposition have even call for a " totally different approach " to welfare from the one that she support when in government . so who do she appoint as her shadow Chancellor ? the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Sir Mel Stride ) — the very member who , as Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , oversee the overspending . when the Conservatives say that they have change , I say : look at their Front Bench — the architect of failure be still draw up plan . and what a failure it be . on the shadow Chancellor ' s watch , more than 800 , 000 people leave the labour market . what do it say about a government when hundred of thousand of people give up on look for work ? those people have lose hope . that be not just money lose in tax revenue — it be a parent who can no long work because they be on an NHS waiting list ; it be a young person with mental health challenge , leave behind by cut to mental health service . I be listen , as always , to the hon . Gentleman ' s wise word — he present his case very well — but , honestly , have he forget the pandemic ? will he give any credit to the then Government for manage it ? do he talk to his constituent , and all the business that be still go thank to the work do at that time ? with regard to his attack on the Conservatives , will he just grow up ? I hope to goodness that Labour never have to manage what we have to manage , but if it do , I hope that it manage it even half as well . obviously , the pandemic be a factor , but the right hon . Gentleman can not blame every government policy failure on external factor . all government must deal with external factor . unpaid carer be have to leave their job because the Conservatives never fix social care . behind every one of those 800 , 000 people who be outside the labour market be a tragic story of waste opportunity and a Conservative Government who look the other way . that abject failure hit constituency like mine the hard ; North Durham have more economically inactive people than the national average . let we contrast that with the record of this Labour Government in our first year in office . economic inactivity have fall and employment be up : 730 , 000 more people be in work , and 360 , 000 few working - age people have be out of work and not look for work since we enter office . that be 360 , 000 story of life move forward , new parent able to get back to the workplace , people off NHS waiting list thank to our record investment , and young people access training . behind every one of those story be a Labour Government who refuse to accept waste opportunity . there be still so much leave to do to fix the mess that we inherit from the Leader of the Opposition , the shadow Chancellor and the rest of the conservative party , but I be proud to support a Labour Government who want to help people into work , so that they can get on with their life . the welfare bill be out of control . a system with laudable aim that be design to act as a safety net for those who fall on hard time now threaten not only the nation ' s finance but the spirt of hard work and self - reliance . that be why I will support the motion . my conservative colleague and I believe in fairness . we be the party of the striver — the man and woman who rise early , work long hour and provide for their family . the shopkeeper who open up before dawn , the construction worker on site in all weather , and the parent balance multiple job — these be the people who make Britain great . they keep our economy go and our community alive . this government be let people down . People see many other game the system , while their taxis continue to rise to fund a welfare bill that have spiral out of control . of course , I understand that there must always be a safety net — I say that as someone who have live experience of be on the breadline grow up — but this safety net have turn into a fishing net , with a culture that promote the idea that it be okay not to work , that it be fine for other to pay for our lifestyle choice and that it be acceptable to rely on the state forever . since the general election , we have see over 1 million more people add to universal credit — 1 million more people . for all the Government ' s talk of save the NHS and help people back into work , the number tell a different story . first , I congratulate the hon . member , because I think his audience here in the Chamber be big than his party leader ' s for her speech on welfare early today . could he look back to his party ' s record in government when it come to the NHS ? as the intelligent man I think he be — I consider he a friend — do he agree that large NHS waiting list , which his party leave , increase the benefit bill ? do he agree with that easy - to - accept premise ? when the Conservatives leave office , there be just 2 million people on universal credit for health - relate reason . today , that number stand at 3 million — a remarkable increase that highlight the sheer lack of action by this Government to get welfare under control . it tell the young generation that aspiration be no long the british way and that it be easy to depend on the state than to strive . while the Government continue to spend , it be our constituent — hard - press taxpayer — who be foot the bill . we in this House would be wise to remember that there be no such thing as public money ; there be only taxpayer ' money . unfortunately , taxpayer be get a rough deal . our approach be different . only the Conservative party be on the side of the taxpayer . the Government publish proposal to save £ 5 billion in welfare spending . conservative Members talk about what they would do in government be like I talk about have the ability to take a penalty in a world cup final . the Conservatives leave we with 1 . 4 million PIP claimant for mental health reason and 1 . 2 million on mental health waiting list — that is 217 , 000 people in the midland , where the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be . anyway , to go back to the £ 5 billion of welfare saving the Government propose , that be a small but important step in the right direction that we on the conservative Benches would have support . embarrassingly , they concede to the hard leave in the Labour party , so we be now in the perverse position that their welfare change will invariably end up cost the taxpayer more and not achieve even the small of saving they intend . other party that claim to be fiscally conservative be now openly support the removal of the two - child benefit cap — a move that undermine the very principle of personal responsibility . the Minister for Social Security and Disability , who be no long in his place , be in the extraordinary position of start a debate argue that he need to save £ 4 . 5 billion and end the debate say he need to spend an additional £ 300 million . be that not a bit odd ? my hon . friend make his point perfectly . on the two - child benefit cap , will the hon . member give way ? oh , go on then . I thank the hon . member for give way . do some child deserve to go hungry ? of course not . we on the conservative Benches know that the hard - press taxpayer deserve well . I be proud that the shadow Secretary of State have outline tough but fair proposal to cut the welfare bill . our plan to make work pay and to stop the unfair gaming of the system would make saving of £ 23 billion for the Exchequer . first , we will clamp down on the ridiculous system that enable people with mild health condition to receive thousand of pound from the state , when people with the exact same condition go out to work and pay their due . secondly , we will reduce fraud and error in the system by bring back face - to - face assessment , which be a means of ensure that support be in the right hand . finally , we will restrict benefit for non - UK national . we all know that migrant be attract to the UK , because of our welfare system perhaps be too generous . will the hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? I be not give way . the welfare system should be there for british people who need it , not for other who perhaps just want it , and Conservative Members will never apologise for believe in aspiration over dependency . today ' s motion represent the same fail punitive and cruel social security system that the conservative party have for 14 year — a system that do not help people into good job or get social security spend down , and that lead only to destitution . by contrast , our approach be to create good job , get good training in place , and help people into those job . let ' s talk about the record of the conservative party . let ' s talk about the rise in employment . the rise in employment be not among those who they punish . Non - graduate employment fall from about 73 % when we be last in office , to 68 % when the Conservatives leave office . the rise in job be not among the non - graduates who they be punish or those who they drive into destitution ; the people who take those job be the increase number of graduate . what be the cruelty that they put forward ? they be measure that see someone sanction because they go to their wife ' s funeral , or that see someone get punish because they go to a job interview — sanction after sanction , cruelty after cruelty . it be the same with the Conservatives ' cut — cut that lead to 3 million foodbank parcel be hand out . I do not know what a food bank be when I be grow up , yet every one of we in the Chamber know what they be today . we see the grow destitution and homelessness before we , but what we do not see be any improvement in our country . there be no economic growth , and no extra good job . cruelty and futility — that be the record of the conservative party . think about where we be today . what do we need to do to ensure that people have decent job ? we know that to live a decent life , a work family be this country need to include two parent earn about £ 35 , 000 each , yet in 80 % of this country the average wage be less than that . about 40 % of full - time job pay less than £ 35 , 000 . go beyond that — [ interruption . ] would someone on the opposition Benches like to intervene ? to quote the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend think he be " so clever " , argue with fact ! those fact be not particularly appreciate by those on the Conservative Benches . do he agree that what be important in this debate be the people who be leave destitute by the policy of 14 year of conservative government ? I could not agree more . when we go forward and think about how to create a good life for people , we first need to create good job , but we also need to ensure that people have the training and support they need to get there . that be exactly what this Government be do . we be create good job by work with the private sector through our industrial strategy , and ensure that the private sector get the support it need to work with business and — yes , of course — with trade union . we be ensure that there be good job for people to get into in the green economy and healthcare . we be create the good job that people need and , more than that , the training they need . through our work on the social security system , we be make sure that people can try work without the fear of lose their social security payment . that be the difference between we and the conservative party . it be a difference in value . we believe that every single person should be able to afford to live a decent life , that we should create good job for they to move into , and that the job of the Government be to work with the private sector to create those job directly , so that people can work and earn a decent wage . we be not about be punitive or cruel , and our measure will not lead to more destitution . that be the difference between Labour and the Conservatives . I be proud to be on these Benches ; I do not know how they feel today . every one of we in this Chamber , and generation of mps before we , want to help and improve the life of our constituent . that be why this debate be so important , and we really have to tackle it . the issue with welfare go back generation . we talk about the welfare state as we know it now , come in after the second world war with Clement Attlee and the establishment of the NHS , but the history of welfare go back so much far . the National Insurance Act 1911 introduce insurance against sickness , invalidity and — unusually at that time — unemployment . we can even go back even far than that , to Henry VIII and the abolition of the monastery ; it be the monastery that use to provide charity and care for the infirm and the needy . since then , we have see the development of welfare in various form , and it be something that we have all struggle with . we see it with the development of the Poor Law and the friendly society . it have be an area of great change and it have be go on for generation . I appreciate that anyone come to this topic come with the good of intention . I think there be consensus that welfare reform be need , but the way in which the provision of welfare be develop at the moment be entirely damage both to the public purse and to those who be catch in the welfare net . today ' s welfare state have become like the modern - day helicopter parent . for those who do not know , a helicopter parent be one who hover over their child like a helicopter in every aspect of their life , manage their experience and feeling that they always need to be involve in order to solve problem . but we know that be not healthy for the child . they can feel smothered , be unable to develop and become trapped . that be what be happen with our current welfare system ; it be trap people and not give they opportunity . I recently meet a constituent who be make unemployed in 2020 during the covid pandemic , and she have struggle ever since to find and hold down a job . she have an autism diagnosis , and it be only since this government start improve the system that she have have access to a disability - train job coach , who have support she to get some volunteering and move into a college course ; she now have a job ahead of she . that be what we be do to grasp the system and tackle its challenge . I be very sorry that that be the experience face by the hon . Lady ' s constituent , but it be good that she have manage to get the opportunity to work . that be the thing ; that be the difference . change need to be make . we have come to the Chamber today to try to find a route through this issue for all of we . that be why my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) have offer help . I have a big issue with the language be use in this Chamber all the time . this be a very difficult and sometimes uncomfortable conversation , but it be absolutely essential that we take the action need . sentiment like " live within your mean " , which I think all our constituent have to do from day to day , should not be replace by word like " austerity " and then the idea slam down . that be not helpful to any debate or any of our constituent . we always ask our constituent to look after their money — money in , money out — and the Government have to do the same . this depend on what our own view of the Government be . there be those who want the Government to be involve in absolutely every element of everyone ' s life — and so be it , but do expect cost rise , inefficiency and abuse of the system . the most compassionate thing be to put people on the path to take their own opportunity , to have their own job and to grow . that be the place we be try to get to . sometimes we be too involved , and we be not create the system of fairness that we all seek . give the sum of money that we be talk about , it be even more imperative that we grasp this nettle . it can not be right or fair that sickness benefit pay £ 2 , 500 more a year than the amount receive by someone live on the national living wage . a responsible Government have to take proper action to tackle this issue . that be why the conservative party have come forward with proposal that would reduce spending by £ 23 billion , through our plan to deliver £ 47 billion of saving . the pen sit with the Government . it be entirely with they to take these action — the action that constituent be ask for . rather than dismiss our solution , as Government Members have constantly do today , perhaps the Government should take some of they on , take up our offer for help and improve the welfare system . although I currently sit as an independent MP , I be still a proud member of the Labour party . instead of preoccupy myself with the stance , opinion and view of other party , which I have absolutely no control over whatsoever , all I care about be where Labour be and what Labour do . I wholeheartedly agree with any Labour party member whenever they say that our party ' s mission and reason for be be to lift people out of poverty — after all , that be one of the main reason why I join . in 2024 , 411 Labour Members be elect to provide change . it be an effective campaign message , but 16 month on , we still have the wicked and cruel two - child benefit cap . there have be promise that the Government be look at lift that cap and will do so when the fiscal situation allow and improve , but ultimately , it still have not be do . I regularly hear member on my side of the House shout " 14 year ! " and point the finger . I understand the roleplaying and game - playing that be involve , and with respect to all member , everyone know that the Conservative Government — in my opinion , certainly — be a cruel shamble for the past 14 year , one that punch down on the most vulnerable people in society . however , they be out ; we be in . we be a Labour Government , but it be thing like retain the two - child benefit cap that we be be judge on . [ interruption . ] I be happy to take an intervention — no ? if member think I be wrong or make life awkward , what I say to colleague be , " have a look at the poll . listen to what people be say . " what I hear from people on the doorstep and when I be out campaigning be anger at thing like the two - child benefit cap , winter fuel , the treatment of the WASPI woman , and welfare cut . when will the leadership appreciate that the people impact by those thing be our people — our class ? instead of chase disaffect Tory right - wing vote , what about look after our core vote ? the bottom line be that we must do more to lift people out of poverty and improve living standard . to not do so be a poverty of ambition . we be the Labour party , and we be in government ; go and govern by real Labour party value . Britain ' s welfare system be create as a safety net . it be a system design to protect people who face hardship through no fault of their own , but today , that net be become a trap — for individual , for family , and for this country . any welfare system must be fair , provide support for those who truly need it and a reward for those who do the right thing — who get up in the morning , go to work and provide for their family . right now , too many people feel that do the right thing be punish , not reward . under Labour , Britain have stop work , because for too many , it have stop make sense to work . there be good fiscal reason why we conservative plan to cut welfare spending by £ 23 billion , but there be also a moral argument . by make work pay less and welfare pay more , the Government be incentivise welfare over work , which be profoundly unfair . one of the good example be the two - child benefit cap . we all know that the Chancellor be go to announce its removal in the Budget , and will no doubt be support by the Liberal Democrats , by Reform UK and by other high - spend leave - wing party . she will do so because she and the Prime Minister be terrify of their own Back Benchers . the Prime Minister now say that the welfare reform he be carry out strike " the right balance " . who do he think believe that ? he be like brave Sir Robin in " Monty Python and the Holy Grail " . Brave Sir Keir run away — bravely run away . when danger rear its ugly head , he bravely turn his tail and flee ; brave of the brave , Sir Keir . he be force to retreat and turn a Bill design to save money into one that actually cost the taxpayer more . why be we conservative commit to keep the two - child benefit cap ? it be not just because there be a limit on what the state can afford ; it be also a question of fairness . million of family across Britain make careful choice about whether or not they can afford a child . why should a taxpayer who have decide that they can not afford a third or subsequent child be ask to subsidise one for someone who be not work ? one of my constituent lose her husband after they have make a decision to have three child together , as work taxpayer . her husband have die , and she need the help for which she have contribute : be that a lifestyle choice ? when we design welfare rule , it have to be for the whole economy and all our people , and I believe that the two - child benefit cap be fair . under this Labour Government , unemployment have rise every month since they take office ; 5 , 000 people a day be now sign on for sickness benefit , and , thank in part to the Chancellor ' s job tax , the number of graduate job have fall by a third ; and what be the Government ' s response ? it be more tax , more borrowing , more spending , and more excuse . when the Chancellor break her promise and raise taxis again in the Budget , what will be her excuse ? will it be 14 year of conservative government ? will it be this mythical black hole that only she and her Back Benchers can see ? the Office for Budget Responsibility can not find it . perhaps it will be the pandemic , or perhaps it be all because of Brexit . the Chancellor ' s excuse be grow increasingly thin , and the people who elect we know that . they know that it be the Chancellor ' s fault . we will cut welfare spending by focus support on those who truly need it , not those who can work but choose not to . we will use those saving to get the economy work again for individual and for business . we will scrap punitive taxis on family business , family farm and local shop . we will abolish stamp duty , because when people can buy a home and when business can hire and grow , Britain prosper . we respect the fact that taxpayer already pay too much . we respect small business that can not just pass on additional cost to someone else , and we respect the next generation , who deserve to inherit opportunity and not just the debt of this Labour Government . it be a pleasure to speak in the debate , and I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) — who have just leave the Chamber — for speak without note , which I think be commendable . you will be aware , Madam Deputy Speaker , that my mind be currently dominate by thought about baby . it be incredible that human baby be so reliant on their parent and guardian to feed they , clothe they , bath they and keep they warm . that lead I to consider how , give its humble beginning , the human race have be so successful , create society , create community and — if I may give a local plug — create the fibre - optic cable in Harlow . then I realise that it be because of exactly these vulnerability that human being form society and community . it be not only human nature for we to support one another ; it be essential . I believe it be Mahatma Gandhi who say that a society should be judge on how it treat its most vulnerable . the original motion claim that it be a moral duty to stop benefit for certain people . I must be honest and say that I do not like that wording , although I recognise the need for welfare reform . I feel that there need to be a great deal more meat on the bone : what do the opposition mean by " low - level " mental health issue ? the motion also refer to the Government ' s " failure " to get people on benefit back into work . I mean , come on ! give we a chance . let I gently point out that inactivity increase on the Conservatives ' watch , and the United Kingdom be the only G7 country whose employment rate be still low than it have be before the pandemic . I support the Government ' s aim to get people back into work , and I welcome the inactivity trailblazer scheme , whose purpose be to design local solution to tackle this issue . I will talk later about have be a teacher , because I do that in every speech , but have work for a homelessness charity , I know that the reason for which people be out of work for long period be complex and often vary , so those local solution be very important . on that point , will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be go to make some progress , but I must get to my " teacher " point . I may have mention a few time in the House that I use to be a teacher . when I visit Harlow ' s school and college , I be blow away by our talented young people . I want the good for they : high - quality job , and an ambition that do not stop at a glass ceiling and a lifetime on benefit . I genuinely believe that get people into meaningful employment can and will help some of the mental health issue that people suffer from . I have see that in my work for a homelessness charity . I therefore welcome get employment adviser into GP surgery and mental health institution . one way to get people back into work be by get NHS waiting list down . I know a number of self - employ people in Harlow who be really struggle because of the huge impact that long waiting list have on they get back to work . this government be fund our NHS not just for now , but for the future . I gently add that the number of people claim unemployment benefit have actually go down over the last year under this Government , which we should welcome . I also welcome the review into PIP , and I be glad that my right hon . friend the Minister for Social Security and Disability be lead the charge on that important piece of work . we have hear a lot of nonsense from the Conservatives ; we have have a nursery rhyme and the claim from the hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) that the first instance of welfare in this country be the monastery under Henry VIII . but to take that example , when Thomas Cromwell come in to advise King Henry VIII , he realise that they be not work and need reform . it be extremely difficult . that Government pass two very difficult act of Parliament to dissolve those monastery and to get the wealth back out to people . do my hon . friend agree that the difficult act of Government be actually to reform these thing , rather than just to complain about they retrospectively ? I thank my hon . and gallant Friend for his intervention . I can not pretend to be a huge historian — I do not know a great deal about the selling of the monastery — but I take his point about the difficult decision that government need to make , and that reform be really important . there be so many thing that have be leave for we to look at in term of reform . as a former teacher — I always mention it — special educational need and disability reform be obviously a huge one that need to be on the agenda . as I be say , I welcome the review into PIP be lead by my right hon . friend the Member for East Ham . after I leave teaching , I work for a homeless charity and have to help client with PIP form ; they be cumbersome . I would encourage people from my constituency to participate in that review , either through the formal process or by write to I . I will make sure that their feedback get to my right hon . friend . the one thing in the conservative motion that I would agree with be the need for more face - to - face assessment . it be right to say that the number of assessment go down because of covid — of course it do — but it be important that we get back to those face - to - face PIP assessment . finally , one of my top priority in this place be to ensure that all young people in Harlow have the opportunity and aspiration to succeed , not just for the good of the community and our society , but for themselves . a few hon . member in this debate have mention the record of the last government , so it be worth put on the record that , under the last government , 4 million job be create , youth unemployment be halve and a million more disabled people move into work . sadly , under this government , we have already see unemployment rise every single month that they have be in office . they be go to have the record that every Labour Government have have — of leave unemployment high than they inherit . the number of people on health and sickness benefit be also increase significantly . under this Government , 5 , 000 people be be sign on to long - term sickness benefit every day , which be double the rate pre covid . simply put , our welfare system be not sustainable , nor fair . it be not fair for taxpayer and it be not fair for people who be leave on benefit , without the support that they need . yet Labour Members have block welfare reform , and the Prime Minister and Chancellor clearly lack the backbone to get on with this urgent work . the Chancellor ' s panicked speech this morning underline that serious welfare reform be not any part of their agenda . it should be common cause across the House that we understand the value and dignity of work . the moral case for change mention in our motion could not be clear : we must protect the vulnerable and help those who can work to get the support to do so , because work be not just about pay ; it be about pride , personal responsibility and the health benefit that come from it . yet this Government be fail to help people who want work to find it . a welfare system worthy of the name should help people up , not hold they down . we will judge this Government by their record . unemployment , as I have say , be increase , and sickness claim be go up . help people be why , when we be in government , my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) introduce universal credit to simplify welfare and reward work , which halve unemployment between 2010 and the pandemic . we be make real progress . of course , the pandemic create a real challenge for we and we see a rise in claim , particularly for mental health . the shadow Chancellor , whose name have be take in vain , actually put in place a number of reform that be go to drive down the claim that be come through . he put in place universal support to help people . he put in place WorkWell , a great scheme that have be effective in Norfolk . the big point be that welfare spending on health and disability benefit be set to hit £ 100 billion by the end of this Parliament — a point make by the hon . member for North Durham ( Luke Akehurst ) — which be twice what we spend on defence . yet what do we see ? we see a Government with no serious intent to bring the total down . indeed , the PIP review that have be announce , which will not report for age , specifically exclude saving from its term of reference . despite increase taxis , the Government be apparently go to lift the two - child policy . my hon . friend the Member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) have already make a good argument for why that should not happen , so I will not repeat it , but it prompt the question of why the Government , despite critique the last government for apparently spend too much on welfare , do not have a plan to do anything . they could look at the plan that the shadow Secretary of State have set out , which would deliver £ 23 billion across the board . we should be guide by conservative principle : live within our mean , protect the most vulnerable , and make sure that work always pay and that those who can work do so . we have a duty to ensure that the system be fair and sustainable . from the moment that Labour Members block their own reform , we have see a Government with no idea and a Chancellor who be clear that spending restraint do not form any part of her plan . taxis be go up and welfare spending be go up , but there be an alternative : back our motion and build a welfare system that truly work for Britain . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to contribute briefly on this huge topic . while I be glad to discuss welfare reform , I be perplex as to why the Conservatives would want to do so , give their completely disastrous record . in response to the hon . member for North West Norfolk ( James Wild ) , I wonder whether he have read the plan for their £ 23 billion - worth of welfare cut , on the back of the fag packet on which it be display , because there be no detail to speak of on thing such as housing benefit , which be raise by the Minister beforehand . I do not even think it be brass neck any more from the Conservatives ; it be just desperate . their hope be that we forget what they leave we only last year , and forget what they be like in government : employment be low than before the pandemic ; 10 million household be now net recipient of Government support ; 4 . 5 million child be grow up in poverty ; 2 . 8 million people have be leave languish on waiting list and out of work ; and 1 million young people be out of work and have be leave jobless in the first strait of their life — all while we have record welfare spending , with billion of pound spend every year on failure . indeed , when the shadow Chancellor be at DWP — I make this point early — we see the big rise in welfare spending since record begin in 1996 , include £ 33 billion in one year alone . the Conservatives have zero credibility on this issue and a record of expensive failure . it be a disastrous legacy , which they ought to be utterly ashamed of . they leave people in this country languish on benefit and leave out of work , and leave we to pick up the bill for year to come . I have touch on their plan , so I will not say any more on that , but it feel a bit like stand next to an arsonist who be watch a house on fire and complain , " someone should really put that out , " have start the fire . I be short of time , but I want to say something about reform — real reform , not the turquoise Tories of Reform UK , who I notice be not here for the debate and who I believe would destroy the welfare system as we understand it . we all know that welfare spending must come down , and we all want to get people into work — young people , disabled people and those who can , want and should work . the current system — the Conservatives ' system — do not enjoy public support system because of the Tories ' failure , and risk undermine the whole welfare state and social contract as we know it ; hence our reform early this year . if we believe in help those who really need it — the disabled , the sick and those unable to work , whom the welfare state be design for — we must make the tough choice that the Conservatives do not make over 14 year . the current front door for the work capability assessment be not fit for purpose , and I be glad that we be do away with it , but neither be the assessment for personal independence payment , as it be consider by many to be out of date and unfit for the modern wave of claimant live with mental health condition and likewise . I would welcome the Minister ' s thought on whether more reform in this area would be welcome and will come . the argument make for reform , which be explore in the paper early this year , still stand . too many people be roll on to PIP , too many be fail and fall out of work ill , and too many , have do so , be not re - enter the job market . so I be glad that we be stimulate more people into work through measure such as our £ 1 billion pathway to Work guarantee . because of the sheer number of applicant and particularly of successful applicant since the pandemic , we have to consider the appropriateness of some of the threshold for people currently apply for PIP to ensure that the support be still there for those who really need it . it be interesting to hear what be be put forward , consider that this lot on the conservative Benches create the welfare system that we currently have , and that lot on the Labour Benches be keep it go . the reality be that the mini - Budget that massively change house price and mean mortgage interest rate go through the roof have contribute to the cost of living crisis . the reality be that Brexit have mean that we be all bad off . the reality be that , with a UK Labour Government now , the economy be not grow : there be no creation of job and , for example , we still have a massive issue with productivity . we still have an incredibly break system , and the problem be Westminster — it be all of you ; every one of you on both side have contribute to the current system . People be not stand up today to talk about the fact that we have child poverty , and to say that what the welfare system should be do be improve that system so we do not have so much child poverty . child poverty be reduce in Scotland . however , the child poverty strategy be push back from the spring to the autumn , and now the Minister for Social Security and Disability be say that it will be the end of the year . when he stand up , he say he be go to seek the support of the House for the Government ' s mission , but he be not actually go to do so . what he be go to do tonight be vote against the Tory motion . the Government have not put forward an amendment lay out their plan for what they intend to do . the Tory motion be a complete and total mess . the Tories seem to be try to assign value to human . they seem to be say , " as long as you ' re earn a significant amount of money , you be bear in the UK and you ' re a british citizen , you ' re okay . if you be not — if you don ' t fit in those box — you be somehow less valuable . " both side have be make the argument that people be either get universal credit and other benefit or they be in work , but those two thing be not mutually exclusive . for a significant number of people , work do not pay . the income of a significant number of people have to be support by the welfare system , because the economy that both side have create mean they be not get enough money to be able to pay for the basic thing they need . the price of butter , olive oil , potato and rice have go through the roof , and people can not afford their energy bill because of rampant inflation , which continue , and the cost of living crisis continue to bite because wage have not keep pace with those price . the current welfare system be not reduce poverty , but it also have to support people currently in work because they be not get enough money . if the Conservatives be assign value to human — say that people who be not UK citizen do not necessarily deserve benefit — they be go to be have very interesting conversation with expat in Spain and Canada , with which we have reciprocal social security arrangement . they will be immensely furious that they will no long be eligible for any of the support they receive from those government , and I think it be bizarre for the Conservatives to support such a position , give how many of those expat be conservative voter who be go to be monumentally stuff as a result of the Tory position . I think it be absolutely ridiculous that we be here listen to the Conservatives , who create this system , argue about how terrible it be . what we should be do — will the hon . Lady give way ? no , thank you . what we should be do in the Budget and in the child poverty strategy be talk about how the welfare system should support people and about how the welfare system fail to support people . I wish the Minister for Social Security and Disability well in his work co - produce his report , but the welfare system be currently break , and that be not because the cost be spiral out of control . the welfare system be currently break because people be be demonise simply for claim enough to live on . order . I call the shadow Minister . I want to start the debate by acknowledge the fact that many member here do not know that much about I . the debate so far , with this caricature of Conservatives who do not care , have sadden I . like my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , who be no long in his place , I be entirely motivate by social justice and care for the most vulnerable , as be many colleague on the Conservative Benches . indeed , it be my right hon . friend who found the Centre for Social Justice , which I know feed in a huge amount of work to what the Labour party be do . so I just want to set the record straight . we just differ in how we help . we be also that voice for the voiceless , the hard - work individual and family who want the system to be fair for they , as well as for the most vulnerable . that be why I believe that reform Britain ' s welfare system be a moral imperative . as conservative , we believe in the dignity of work . we believe that work provide purpose , independence and , ultimately , a path from poverty to prosperity . we want to empower people to take control of their own life , not abandon they to a lifetime on benefit . but right now , as we have hear multiple time this afternoon , work simply do not pay . a person on sickness benefit can get between £ 2 , 500 and £ 5 , 000 more per year than a worker on the minimum wage , which be something that my constituent have be at pain to ensure that I be aware of . they be hard - work business owner who can not believe that those figure mean that somebody work be often less well - off than somebody who be not . face with such a disparity , it be easy to understand why live off welfare be a more attractive option for many . I be a conservative because I believe in personal responsibility and live within our mean . I see our welfare system as a safety net for the most vulnerable , not a lifestyle choice , as have be mention several time in the debate . however , that safety net have reach its breaking point . by 2030 , around £ 1 in every £ 4 of income tax will be spend on health and disability benefit . that be nearly £ 100 billion — an eyewatering sum that surpass our entire defence budget . only the Conservatives have a realistic and sustainable plan for reform the welfare system . we will get more people into work , while provide support for those face genuine need . when our government leave office , over 4 million more people be in work than in 2010 . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be go to make some progress , if I may . youth unemployment have fall by nearly 380 , 000 , give far more young people the security of a meaningful career . however , under this Government , the unemployment rate be set to reach 5 % by next year , compare with 4 . 1 % a year ago . we have already hear that graduate job have go down by a third since last year , and we have 1 million young people not in education , employment or training . so far , Labour have show little appetite for make tough decision . as we have already see , the Prime Minister ' s plan to reduce welfare spending end with a u - turn , with key measure be ditch in a last - minute attempt to win over his own mps . I do not think I will ever forget the day the Universal Credit and Personal Independence Bill become simply the Universal Credit Bill mid debate — a parliamentary pantomime , or even a farce , that encapsulate the Labour party ' s inability to take welfare reform seriously . the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions have admit that his much - anticipate review be conduct by the Minister for Social Security and Disability , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , the timms review , will not involve any welfare cut . that mean that our public spending will continue to rise , run out of control , and taxis will inevitably rise at the next Budget . labour be now stare at a £ 9 . 3 billion welfare black hole . scrap the personal independence payment reform alone will cost £ 4 . 5 billion by 2030 . to truly encourage people into work , we need to look at long - term solution . it be easy to dish out sickness benefit . it be hard to provide the right combination of physical and psychological support to ensure that people face challenge can keep or find meaningful employment . yet these be the solution we owe it to people to deliver , offer they a chance at a well future , one that be not entirely reliant on the state . that be why the Conservatives have set out a clear plan that will reduce the welfare bill by £ 23 billion . we urge the Government to consider our proposal . first , we must prioritise british citizen in our welfare system . that mean make the system fair and prevent non - UK citizen from claim benefit such as universal credit , the personal independence payment and the carer ' s allowance . secondly , we must stop benefit for those with low - level mental health condition . under this Government , 5 , 000 people be be sign off work sick every single day . this figure have balloon to twice the size it be last year , mainly because thousand of people be sign up to benefit for less severe mental health issue , include anxiety and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder . one of the concern I have when we discuss mental health in this place be the confusion between mental health and mental wellbeing . everyone have mental wellbeing challenge — we see that in the pandemic — but not everyone have a mental health issue . it be absolutely normal , for example , to get very anxious go to a driving test ; it be not normal to have that response go to the supermarket . those two thing need different response and different treatment ; some might need support and help into the workforce , while medical support be need for those with serious mental health issue . do my hon . friend agree that it be so important that we acknowledge this discrepancy when we debate the issue , to ensure that we get the policy right for both the patient and the taxpayer ? I bow to my hon . friend ' s medical wisdom . I agree that we need to give people hope and ensure that our policy tackle the most severe mental health problem . however , if be mental wellbee that we be talk about , we need to do more to ensure that people have the skill and tool to stay in work , so that they can enjoy the future that they can have . give the right support , many people benefit enormously from the social interaction and sense of achievement that come from regular employment . hold down a job provide a sense of agency , and break the cycle of dependency . enable access to benefit for those whom we should be encouraging to work feel perverse and be a dereliction of duty . thirdly , we must increase face - to - face assessment for disability benefit . since the covid - 19 restriction , the number of face - to - face assessment have tank , with 90 % now happen over the phone . this be unacceptable , and have open the door to so - call sickfluencer , who be coach people online on the right word to say to get the maximum amount of benefit . insist on in - person appointment will mitigate this issue . with the Chancellor now begin to blame covid for the economic challenge she face , other Departments should be free to acknowledge the same and crack on with change thing back — in this case , to in - person assessment . fourthly , we must reform the Motability scheme so that only those with serious disability qualify for a vehicle . will the hon . Lady give way ? sorry ; I be go to continue . motability be a lifeline for those with serious mobility issue , yet under Labour , Motability cost have surge by almost 10 % . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be go to continue because I be run out of time . we will stop taxpayer subsidise new car for people with ADHD and tennis elbow , and will ensure that the scheme be target at those with genuine mobility issue . it be not compassionate to pretend that our welfare system can solve everyone ' s problem . if we continue turn a blind eye to misuse of the system , it will not be robust enough to help those who need it most . lastly , we must keep the two - child benefit cap in order to encourage people into work and to strengthen our economy . have parent with a stable job be the good foundation from which a child can better their prospect in life . of course we want child and family to thrive , but fairness require that family on benefit should face the same decision as those in work about whether they can afford another child . the Conservatives be the only party that believe in keep the cap and live within our mean ; Labour , Reform and the liberal Democrats would all scrap it , cost £ 3 . 5 billion by the end of this decade . as I have say before , scrap the two - child benefit cap , like roll out universal free school breakfast , be a stick plaster at good that will not tackle the root cause of poverty — something that I believe we all want to do . by return to sustainable level of welfare spending , a Conservative Government will build a strong economy . these welfare saving will enable we to axe stamp duty on primary residence , help first - time buyer to get on to the property ladder . we will introduce a permanent 100 % business rate relief for the retail , leisure and hospitality sector , enable a quarter of a million business to invest in well premise , more staff and low price . we will deliver a £ 5 , 000 first job bonus , give a boost to young people ' s saving or home deposit . the Conservatives be the party that back ordinary work people who play by the rule , while Labour seem bent on make our country into a welfare state with an economy attach . we urge the Government to reform the welfare system . they must continue to provide support for those who need it , while refuse to consign people to a lifetime on benefit . the reason why we be have this debate be straightforward : the welfare system be break . we have begin the job of fix it , but the fact be that the system be break by the Conservatives . they oversee 14 year of failure on welfare until they be kick out last year . do my hon . friend agree that we should take no lecture from the people who break the system in the first place ? in Scotland , one in six young people be not in education , employment or training ; 12 , 000 scot have be stick on NHS waiting list for over two year , and 8 , 300 people be economically inactive in Renfrewshire alone due to ill health . far from lecture we , should Conservative Members not look at themselves first ? I agree absolutely with my hon . friend . [ laughter . ] I see member be surprised to learn that . she passionately make the case that neither the SNP nor the Conservatives should be listen to on this issue . if I be in the Conservatives ' position , I might want to shy away from the subject , give their unenviable record . their government leave we with a social security system that trap on benefit hundred of thousand who could work and want to work . fraud against the public sector be at eye - water level ; some of the Department for Work and Pension ' s power to tackle fraud be over 20 year out of date ; and a generation of young people have be neglect — there be a shameful rise in child poverty , and nearly a million young people be leave out of work , education or training . the Conservatives ignore every warning light on the dashboard while they drive down opportunity and drive up inactivity . they deliver the bad of all world , and now they have the cheek to come to this place and preach fiscal rectitude . we be clean up the mess that they leave behind . let I turn to comment make in the debate , begin with those by the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Faversham and Mid Kent ( Helen Whately ) . she talk of generation of family experience persistent worklessness , but this be a system that the Conservatives build . she give an example of a young man in Bridgend who she say " fear " that he would be bad off in work , but who create that system ? where have that disincentive come from ? the conservative entrench that fear . I fundamentally disagree with the shadow Secretary of State ' s analysis , because the personal independence payment be an enabler of work for many people . it be there to meet the additional cost of disability and help disabled people with day - to - day living cost , and it help many of they get to and from the workplace . she talk about the trajectory of welfare spend , but who set we on that trajectory ? we hear that covid be to blame , yet 2022 , 2023 and the first half of 2024 be not the ideal time to begin address the issue . funnily enough , that ideal time be from July 2024 . the Conservatives be run from their record , and they be right to do so . we hear that the number of face - to - face assessment be too low . I absolutely agree that the number of face - to - face assessment need to increase , but the shadow Secretary of State would do well to remember that the contract we be sign up to be sign by the Conservatives , and they commit the contractor to 20 % of assessment be face - to - face . this be the problem . we also hear from the liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Torbay ( Steve Darling ) , who be not in his place . he be right to highlight the shocking way that economic inactivity spiral between 2019 and 2024 , and to reference the state of the national health service . however , I will briefly correct his suggestion that NHS spending be be cut under the Government . we be increase day - to - day nhs spending in real term by £ 18 . 5 billion by 2028 - 29 . the hon . member for Mid Leicestershire ( Mr Bedford ) , whom I like very much , congratulate the shadow Secretary of State on her £ 23 billion package of saving . I hope he share my concern about the fact that the shadow Secretary of State be unable to say how much of that be come from propose change to housing benefit . I hope that he note the same irony that I do : early , the shadow Secretary of State respond to an intervention from my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) by tell he that he think he be so clever for know his statistic . if only she could say the same of herself . we then hear from the hon . member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) , who espouse the virtue of live within our mean . that would have have significantly more clout have the conservative party do the same in the welfare space in recent year . the hon . member for Bridgwater ( Sir Ashley Fox ) say that Britain under Labour have stop work . I remind he that over 700 , 000 more people be in work now than be before the election , and economic inactivity be down by 363 , 000 . will the Minister give way ? I will not . the hon . Member say that we should respect the next generation and respect the fact , too , that taxis be too high , but the conservative leave almost a million young people out of work and many trap in a housing crisis , and they leave the high tax burden since the second world war . as ever , the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) give a passionate speech about child poverty . I share her concern about level of child poverty , but it be my understanding that her SNP Government in Scotland miss their interim child poverty target in 2023 - 24 . I turn to the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) . we face each other a lot across the Dispatch Box , and I know that she care — I do not question that — but we fundamentally disagree on the good way to help people , and that be particularly show by the motion before we . let we go through it . it begin : " this House regret the failure of the Government to get people off welfare and into work " . that be a failure of their government . it continue : " believe that reform the welfare system be a moral mission " — yes , the Conservatives do believe that , now that they be in opposition — " and therefore call on the Government to take urgent action to fix Britain ' s welfare system by restrict welfare for non - UK citizen " . they have give no explanation , either in any of their speech or in the text of the motion , of who that apply to . that be vague . do it include those cover by the withdrawal agreement , those here under the Ukraine and afghan scheme , or just those who come over as part of the Boris wave ? without such specificity , how could anyone support the motion ? the same apply to the proposal to stop benefit for those with " low - level mental health condition " . again , that phrase be poorly define . what be low - level mental health condition ? PIP be not condition - base , at any rate , and we would hope that the conservative party would know that , because it create that benefit . the opposition then call for an increase in the number of " face - to - face assessment " . as I say , we be keen to achieve that , and we will do so , but we be constrain by the contract that they sign , which restrict face - to - face assessment to just 20 % . the motion mention " reform the Motability Scheme so that only those with serious disability qualify for a vehicle " . again , what be a " serious " disability ? it be impossible to know from the text of the motion , or indeed from any of the speech make . the motion then mention " retain the two - child benefit cap " . hon . member across the House be well aware that we will shortly bring forward our child poverty strategy , and that all lever available be under consideration , so we could never support that statement at this stage . all that be round off with the line : " to get people into employment and build a strong economy . " what a joke when we consider that the Conservatives leave we as the only G7 country with a low employment rate than we have before the pandemic . the motion , like the plan that it aim to underline , be not worth the paper that it be write on . I urge all member to oppose it . question put . Jim Allister Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Harriet Cross Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Bernard Jenkin Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Wendy Morton David Mundell Andrew Murrison Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Andrew Snowden Katie Lam Shockat Adam Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Luke Charters Ellie chown Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Chris Curtis Janet Daby Adam Dance Ann davy Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Alex Easton Cat Eccles Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Monica Harding Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Chris Law Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Emma Lewell Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Chris Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Joani Reid Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Gregor Poynton Jade Botterill the House divide : Ayes 92 , Noes 403 . question accordingly negative . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Environmental Protection that the draft Environmental Protection ( Wet Wipes contain Plastic ) ( England ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 16 September , be approve . — ( Gen Kitchen . ) question agree to . Petition - Settlement route for British National ( Overseas ) visa holder I present a petition on behalf of british national overseas passport holder in my constituency and beyond . the petition " declare that alter the 5 + 1 settlement route for British National Overseas ( BNO ) passport holder , which currently allow they to apply for Indefinite Leave to remain after 5 year and citizenship a year after that , " which could be change by the Government , would be " unfair … on a community of nearly 150 , 000 people who have make the UK their home follow China ' s imposition of a National Security Law on Hong Kong in 2020 , and be largely expect to become eligible for indefinite leave within the next year " . locally in Harrogate and Knaresborough , we have a thriving Hongkonger community that contribute in all walk of life . I be personally grateful to Albert Kam , who have help round up over 300 signature for the petition . the petitioner " therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to change course and keep the current 5 + 1 settlement route in place for those British National ( Overseas ) visa holder already reside in the UK , to ensure that they can continue to settle " and contribute in their new life in the UK . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that alter the 5 + 1 settlement route for British National Overseas ( BNO ) passport holder , which currently allow they to apply for Indefinite Leave to remain after 5 year and citizenship a year after that , but would likely be change to 10 year under current plan , would be an unfair change on a community of nearly 150 , 000 people who have make the UK their home follow China ' s imposition of a National Security Law on Hong Kong in 2020 , and be largely expect to become eligible for indefinite leave within the next year ; and far declare that the change will severely disrupt the dignity and stability of this group of people who be subject to transnational repression from China . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to change course and keep the current 5 + 1 settlement route in place for those British National ( Overseas ) visa holder already reside in the UK , to ensure that they can continue to settle into their new life in the UK . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003125 ] petition - Specialist treatment of stroke patient at Scarborough Hospital I rise to present a petition on specialist treatment for stroke patient at scarborough hospital . it declare that " Scarborough Hospital should once again provide specialist emergency assessment , investigation , treatment and care for patient who be potentially suffer from , or have suffer from , an acute stroke " . currently , my constituent have to travel more than 40 mile on the traffic - choke A64 to be assess and treat in York . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Scarborough and Whitby , declare that Scarborough Hospital should once again provide specialist emergency assessment , investigation , treatment and care for patient who be potentially suffer from , or have suffer from , an acute stroke ; and far declare that this be to avoid the need for patient to be transport , over 40 mile and often many more , to York Hospital from the East Coast region , and so that they do not undergo a lengthy and slow journey cause unnecessarily excessive clinical delay to their management out with current national guideline , and so that their friend and relative be able to readily visit they at a time of distress and need . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take step to ensure that Scarborough Hospital can again offer timely and accessible emergency care to acute stroke patient in Scarborough , Whitby , and the East Coast catchment area . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003127 ] Sudan : Government Support Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gregor Poynton . ) we be in Remembrance Week , when we remember the dead of past war . right now in Sudan , a war as murderous and horrible as anything the world have face be shatter the life of civilian , of child , of woman and of man , in way we can scarcely countenance . I have secure this debate because what be go on in Sudan can not continue . the fall of the city of El Fasher , after a brutal 18 - month siege , be the late disaster in what the Foreign Secretary accurately describe at the weekend as " the large humanitarian crisis in the 21st century . " over the past week , report have be come in of execution , force expulsion and organised massacre — the evidence of which be literally visible from space , with image of carnage and body strew in the street . condition in El Fasher have be describe as " apocalyptic " . however , this be not unexpected . tragically , it be very much predict , with warning from numerous source . description of El Fasher as another Srebrenica be not misplace , although they be in many way bad . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure the debate and for all his work across Africa before come to this place . I respect he greatly for his desire for human betterment . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , I have speak and ask question about Sudan some 14 time in the past year — as have other — because I be acutely aware of the precarious situation for Christians in the region . christian have be murder in the beastliness and wickedness that be happen . patient and staff have be murder in hospital . I have consistently ask the Government to step up support for those who be be target because of their faith . it grieve I greatly , it grieve the hon . Gentleman greatly , it grieve we all greatly . do the hon . Gentleman agree that we must use any and all method at our disposal to help those desperately needy and innocent people as a matter of urgency ? I thank the hon . member for his kind comment . I agree with he , and I hope to put forward some idea that may prove useful . there be no United Nations peacekeeper on hand even to witness the killing . current event be a continuation of a calculated political strategy to destroy and ethnically cleanse a province that give its name to one of the tribe — namely the Fur . the Zaghawa , Berti and Masalit tribe have be similarly target in a strategy that begin , arguably , well over 20 year ago . despite the commendable effort to improve international accountability — include through support for the International Criminal Court and UN fact - find mission — as well as the effort of many member here and our UK aid programme to raise awareness and support the sudanese people , what have be do so far be clearly not enough . over 30 million people now need humanitarian aid in Sudan , and million more have be displace , with countless other live in fear , hunger and deprivation . do the hon . Member agree that this crisis have be overlook for far too long and that , for the sake of humanity , we need to turn our attention to Sudan and do what we can to provide aid and support to those who so desperately need it ? I heartily agree with the hon . member . humanitarian worker be also under threat , and I commend the work be do as we speak by group like doctor without Borders — MSF — and the International Committee of the Red Cross . MSF have be treat hundred flee El Fasher over the last week , include man , woman and child suffer from severe malnutrition , gunshot wound and other injury link to beating and torture . as a former aid worker who have live and work in Sudan , although many year ago , I want to express my deep sadness over the killing of five Sudanese Red Crescent Society volunteer in Bara , North Kordofan . humanitarian worker be often the first and sometimes only responder for people in desperate situation around the world , and they selflessly give their time and skill , as well as their courage and compassion . my heart go out to their family . I thank my hon . friend for secure this debate . do he agree that part of the great tragedy of Sudan have be the way it be unfairly overshadow by conflict happen elsewhere in the world , and we should be less squeamish about point that out to the public here in the United Kingdom and the rest of the world ? I totally agree ; we need to be far more outspoken on this issue . I be grateful to the hon . member for secure this debate . when I read the transcript from the International Development Committee , I be strike by the contribution from Liz Ditchburn , who say that the Government ' s approach to this be not sufficiently structure and that there need to be focus and strategy . do he agree that we need to convene such focus and strategy in this place in order to have a comprehensive response ? I very much agree with the hon . Lady , and I hope that my speech will bring some idea to the floor . the Government need to be bold , more direct and proactive in their work to support Sudan and the sudanese people . as UN Security Council penholder on Sudan and lead in the core group on Sudan at the UN Human Rights Council for the protection of civilian , it be our duty to try every possible avenue to push for peace and change . I be sure we be all glad to see the recent announcement from the Foreign Secretary that £ 5 million in aid will be go to Sudan , in addition to the £ 120 million already allocate this financial year , with £ 2 million specifically go to support survivor of sexual violence . this conflict have be particularly devaste for the woman and girl subject to that violence . they often have no potential recourse , justice or even access to the most basic health service after be attack . we need to look to the future and to recommendation from the source that predict the ongoing violence . protection approach , an organisation that repeatedly predict the potential for extreme violence in El Fasher , have point to the city of Tawila as a next step in the trajectory of the Rapid Support Forces ' strategy . I congratulate the hon . member on secure the debate , and I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) and my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) for do so much on this issue . in January 2025 , the Biden Administration say they judge that the RSF and associate militia have commit genocide in Sudan . I have have a number of constituent from the sudanese community in Stockport and across Greater Manchester contact I about the horror take place in Sudan . do the hon . Member agree that our own government should make a similar assessment ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment , and I agree with he . will the Government do for Tawila what be not do for El Geneina , Zamzam , or El Fasher , and recognise its precariousness before it be too late ? will the Government use every diplomatic pressure and avenue available to secure guarantee that humanitarian assistance and aid can be deliver unimpeded ? I be very grateful to the hon . member for secure this important debate , and to everyone who have participate . he mention impediment to aid , and he will be aware that the most recent , very disturbing IPC assessment show that famine be take place in El Fasher and Kadugli . that come out after the quad statement from the US , Saudi Arabia , Egypt and the UAE . on the subject of diplomatic pressure , do the hon . member agree it be important that the UK use its influence with those quad member , to say that they must pressure the belligerent to stop block that much need aid in this famine situation ? I completely agree with the right hon . Lady and thank she for raise that point . a third of child under five in El Fasher be suffer from acute malnutrition , and some be resort to eat animal feed and plant waste to survive . I would hope that everything possible will be do to allow humanitarian corridor to open for civilian to leave besiege area , and to be assure they be not go from the frying pan into the fire . the supply of weaponry and military equipment be the oxygen keep this conflict alive , and we as penholder should lead effort to impose a bind , enforceable arm embargo across all of Sudan . my hon . friend urge an arm embargo , and for the UK to use its role as penholder at the UN Security Council , but Martin Griffiths have say that peace be likely to come out of the region through power such as the UAE and Saudi Arabia . do my hon . friend think that the UK should be use its bilateral relation with those country to bring peace ? I know my hon . friend have military expertise so I thank he for his point . crucially , we must also suspend arm sale to the United Arab Emirates . the fact that British - make weapon , tool and equipment could be flow into the hand of those perpetrate these action be terrible beyond word , and I echo the word of my hon . friend the Member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) , who say that equipment make on our soil must never end up in the hand of those commit such atrocity . my hon . friend raise an important point in his powerful speech , and I would like to take it far . even if British - make weaponry be not be divert and end up on the battlefield in Sudan , the UK be still breach section 1 , 2 , 4 , 6 and 7 of its own arm export licensing criterion . those rule not only prohibit the export of weapon that be prove to be misuse , but they also restrict their sale to any country that may use arm to violate international humanitarian law . do my hon . friend agree that in export arm to the UAE , the Government have be act contrary to international humanitarian law , and that we must stop sell arm to the UAE ? I agree with my hon . friend . we must ensure that this business with arm be stop . the atrocity that we be witness through the news , with the work of Barbara Plett Usher at the BBC , other at the Guardian and Al Jazeera , and through social medium trickle through the medium blackout , will be remember for generation . El Fasher , like Srebrenica before it , will sadly likely stand as a symbol of what happen when the world turn a blind eye . I congratulate the hon . gentleman on secure this very important debate . he have mention Srebrenica and the bosnian conflict twice . do he agree that in year go by , conflict cause immense humanitarian suffering , death and carnage result in international , UN - mandate military force protect civilian and humanitarian corridor ? be it not a reflection on the sorry state of international affair that that do not even seem to be on the table as an option , despite this be the great humanitarian crisis that the world face right now ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman ; the world need to wake up . as the penholder , we have the mean and the moral responsibility to act and ensure that we and the rest of the world do not turn our back on Sudan once more . I congratulate my hon . friend on bring this important debate . I have be to Srebrenica , and I be in Sudan in 2022 . as I travel with my research team to the northern nubian desert , our path be block by the presence of the Wagner Group , which be train the RSF militia and extract vast quantity of gold . this be an internationalised civil war . do my hon . friend agree that an internationalised civil war require an internationalised solution ? Britain be morally bind to play a lead role in assemble a coalition of the willing . I agree with my hon . friend . I call on the Government to follow on from the London Sudan conference hold in April and hold a Lancaster House - style peace conference for all the party to the conflict . they must hold it in a place of safety , on neutral ground , where peace in Sudan and the mean to achieve it can be fully debate and a way forward can be find for peace , reconciliation and rebuilding . some may say that such a journey be impossible , but if we do not try , we will not succeed . if a journey begin with a single step , let this be such a step . we can not and must not allow the killing , torture and rape to continue . I thank my hon . friend for bring this really important topic . I suggest one additional thing he might feel that he need to add : a sense of urgency to get this solution in place . do he agree ? I totally agree . I thank my hon . friend for that point . with that , I will conclude my remark . I be very grateful to the hon . member for Melksham and Devizes ( Brian Mathew ) for secure this debate at such a critical moment for Sudan , which I know will be a matter of concern not only to this House and to his constituent , but to all our constituent across the country . I also thank he for his contribution to this morning ' s Westminster Hall debate on official development assistance — I know there be member here who also speak in that debate . I acknowledge his work on the International Development Committee and his work in aid prior to enter this House . I thank the other hon . member who have contribute to this debate . the hon . member for Melksham and Devizes will have follow the urgent question on Sudan in the House last week , to which the Minister of State at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , reply . I be respond on his behalf tonight . I recognise the seriousness of the situation that we be witness . the conflict have leave more than 30 million people in need of urgent help in what be the world ' s bad humanitarian crisis . support Sudan remain a vital and top priority for this Government . we have hear a number of contribution about freedom of religion and belief , so perhaps I can briefly speak to that issue before I continue my remark . the United Kingdom have always stand as a defender of human right . I say this with deep conviction : how many burn church and murder worshipper in Nigeria and Sudan will it take before we call this what it be : namely , a campaign to exterminate Christians ? british aid must never bankroll corruption or indifference . will the Minister urgently press the government of Sudan and Nigeria to protect all citizen , but particularly Christians , and ensure that our aid go towards address their need ? I thank the hon . member for her contribution . perhaps I can reassure she by say that the UK remain extremely concerned about the persecution of individual on the basis of their religion or belief , a point that have also be make by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) during the debate . we have strongly condemn the violence in El Fasher and north Darfur , as well as attack on place of worship , include in other country across the world . we also regularly use our role as leader of the core group on Sudan at the Human Rights Council to advocate for the protection of civilian in line with international law , include the right to freedom of religion and belief . turn to some of the other point that have be make , as have be refer to , we have recently see advance by the Rapid Support Forces into El Fasher , accompany by shocking report of mass murder and rape . last week , the Foreign Secretary condemn the horrific massacre at the saudi maternity hospital , as well as the murder of five very courageous humanitarian worker , and call on the RSF to urgently facilitate rapid , safe and unimpeded humanitarian access across El Fasher . that point have be make extremely powerfully by my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) , who have raise this issue and the need to support action in Sudan several time in recent week . I thank she for her contribution . as the United Nations Security Council penholder , we call an urgent council meeting on 30 October to respond to the worsen crisis , and pen a press statement condemn the RSF ' s assault . last week we mobilise £ 23 million in emergency aid for El Fasher , and on 1 November the Foreign Secretary announce a furth £ 5 million to help get food , clean water and medical supply to over 100 , 000 people in north Darfur . our special representative to Sudan , Richard Crowder , remain in contact with the RSF and its political alliance , Tasis , press for restraint and remind it of its obligation under international law . we be also talk to international partner , call on those who have influence over the party to use it to urge restraint and bring they to the table . the hon . member for Melksham and Devizes make a very important point when he say that this can not go on — we need to find a way to establish a ceasefire and ensure that we have a political solution . as such , our approach to Sudan be base on three pillar : first , push for that permanent ceasefire and support a civilian - lead transition ; secondly , secure unimpeded humanitarian access in order to deliver lifesave aid ; and thirdly , protect civilian and ensure accountability . in April , as have also be refer to , the UK convene the London Sudan conference , alongside co - host France , Germany , the EU and the African Union . that conference bring together a broad coalition of international partner to build consensus on protect civilian , improve humanitarian access and end the conflict . we have sustain the momentum build by the conference , and at the UN General Assembly in September the Foreign Secretary host high - level event , alongside our conference co - host , refocus global attention on the crisis and the urgent need for action . that call for a continuation of global attention have be echo by a number of member this evening . the UK special representative for Sudan have maintain regular engagement with sudanese civil society — include the anti - war coalition Sumud — and have do so , for instance , through the Sudan stability and growth programme , which aim to support Sudan on the path to an inclusive , resilient and peaceful political settlement . UK support have help to establish Sudan ' s large pro - democracy coalition , and have include work with 200 woman to shape a national political dialogue . I be grateful to the Minister for what she have say , but can she tell I how the UK be approach the UAE , especially in relation to the supply of arm and the use of mercenary who be be deploy into Sudan ? I should first make it clear — as the Minister of State , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth , do recently — that we take very seriously allegation that UK - make military equipment may have be transfer to Sudan in breach of the UK arm embargo . the UK have one of the most robust and transparent export control regime in the world . there be no evidence in recent reporting of UK weapon or ammunition be use in Sudan , and there be no current export licence for the equipment report on . however , my hon . friend the Member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) may wish to continue to raise her concern with my hon . friend the Minister of State . the UK continue to emphasise that external support for war party only fuel the conflict , and we urge all actor to press for that vital political solution . we welcome the Quad ' s effort to secure an immediate three - month ceasefire , and to end this terrible suffering . conversation continue with member of the Quad and other across the international community . rise — rise — I be conscious of time and will continue my speech , although I may be able to give way in due course . on humanitarian aid , the UK remain one of the large donor to Sudan , and the Prime Minister have make it clear that funding to Sudan will be protect for the next three year . at the London Sudan conference in April , we also announce £ 120 million in new funding to reach more than 650 , 000 people with food , cash , water , sanitation and nutritional support this year . in May , Baroness Chapman announce a furth £ 36 million for sudanese refugee in Chad to help to ease the regional burden of displacement , and UK aid have already reach 2 . 5 million people since the conflict begin . last year alone , we treat more than 98 , 000 child for malnutrition , give 744 , 000 people access to clean water , and support 71 , 000 victim of international humanitarian law violation with cash assistance . will the Minister give way , on that point ? I will , very briefly . return to the conference , be the Minister absolutely certain that all the actor in the region be part of the conference ? there have be reference to the United Arab Emirates , and there be other actor in that region who do not seem to be on the list of people she mention who might have be here in April . we continue to work with the member of the Quad , and with other across the international community . in our role as penholder we continue to engage with the international community , because we need to see a ceasefire and a political solution . will my hon . friend give way ? I will try to give way later . in relation to support from the UK — House adjourn without question put ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 7 ) ) .