Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — Council of Nations and Regions what discussion he have with representative of the devolved Administrations and region at the first meeting of the Council of Nations and Regions . first , Mr Speaker , I apologise to you and the House for scottish question overshadow other event today . I be pleased to join the Commonwealth Games Federation last week to confirm that Glasgow will host the Commonwealth game in 2026 . it will be yet another wonderful opportunity for Scotland to show how we put on world - class sporting event . I also visit the Sir Chris Hoy velodrome and speak to the next generation of cyclist , who have be inspire by Sir Chris . I be sure that the whole House will wish to pass on their good wish to he and his family . I also congratulate Scotland woman ' s football team , who qualify for the play - off yesterday after a 4 - 0 win over Hungary . I be delighted to join the Prime Minister as he host the inaugural meeting of the Council of Nations and Regions at Queen Elizabeth House in Edinburgh early this month . we discuss opportunity for attract long - term inward investment , stabilise the UK economy and create good job . the council demonstrate our commitment to work together to deliver those priority . it be essential that all the UK ' s nation and region have a seat at the council of nation and region , alongside Scotland , yet area such as the great south - west , which be home to over 3 million people and have an economy of £ 80 billion , be be leave out because we do not have metro mayor . will the Secretary of State speak to colleague in the Cabinet Office to ensure that , on the council , Scotland can work with all the non - mayoral region of England ? on 16 July , the Deputy Prime Minister write to all area that do not have a devolution deal to invite they to come forward with a proposal . new mayor establish through that process would be eligible to sit on the Council of Nations and Regions . I will make sure that the Deputy Prime Minister forwards that letter to the hon . Gentleman . it be brilliant to welcome the Prime Minister to my constituency for the first meeting of the Council of Nations and Regions . follow that meeting , be the Government commit to end the decade and a half of austerity impose on my constituent by the Conservative and SNP Governments ? I be delighted to attend the Council of Nations and Regions , hold in a labour constituency in Edinburgh . I can assure my hon . friend that our manifesto say " no return to austerity " , and that be what we be determined to deliver . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the trade union Unite have issue a joint letter from political leader across the United Kingdom ' s nation and region oppose Labour ' s cut to the winter fuel payment . that letter have be sign by every party at Stormont and by party in Wales , and the Scottish Conservative leader Russell Findlay also sign it . be the winter fuel payment even discuss at the Council of Nations and Regions ? I think that , with a full House , the shadow Secretary of State would have take the opportunity to apologise for his Government not only crash the economy , but leave a £ 22 billion black hole . that be something this Government be determined to clean up . [ interruption . ] order . we have not even get to the Budget yet , Mr Bowie , and you be already excited . come on , Secretary of State . I hope that , in a later question , the shadow Secretary of State will apologise at the Dispatch Box to the country for crash the economy , and to pensioner for what have happen to they as a result . space sector : Scotland what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on support for the space sector in Scotland . I be delighted to speak at the Space - Comm expo last month in Glasgow , where I meet a wide range of industry member , both national and international , and recently I be fortunate enough to visit the SaxaVord spaceport in Shetland , where I see wonderful progress . I have also meet representative of Orbex in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , and will continue to champion Scotland ' s spaceport , include in Sutherland in his constituency . the Secretary of State mention Orbex . at present , it employ 125 people ; by 2030 , it could employ as many as 500 . be the Secretary of State willing to visit Orbex in Elgin and , indeed , the Sutherland space launch site ? Elgin be certainly not the final frontier , so I would be very happy to visit . the Minister for Science recently visit the UK Space Agency ' s new office in Edinburgh , and during that visit , he echo my sentiment about the importance of Scotland ' s space sector . the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms have recently meet Orbex as well , and I will remain in close contact with my ministerial colleague to ensure that we back the sector . I be very happy to visit when ministerial time allow . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as the Secretary of State know , I recently have the opportunity to visit California with the Scottish Affairs Committee to look at how that state have create an environment that encourage new space project . in Scotland , we have a unique opportunity , not least because of development in Glasgow , but also because the University of Edinburgh be already well respected and part of the programme at Stanford , New York University , Columbia and NASA . what will the Government do to encourage the creation of that sort of environment in Scotland , and will the University of Edinburgh , give its reputation , be central to that ? Scotland will be central to the space sector , and I very much welcome the question . we will fully back the space sector , as I say to the Member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) . the Minister for Science have be to the UK Space Agency ' s new office in Edinburgh , and the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms have meet Orbex . I have meet Orbex and be to Unst in Shetland to visit the spaceport up there . we will fully back this ; of course , its potential reach to infinity and beyond . Inward Investment : Scotland what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on encourage inward investment into Scotland . I welcome my hon . friend to his place ; it be a wonderful election result in his constituency of Airdrie and Shotts . investment in the UK to drive growth be the Government ' s no . 1 priority , and we have already start delivery on it . just this month , we host an international investment summit , at which we announce £ 63 billion of shovel - ready investment across the UK . that include the like of Greenvolt ' s £ 2 . 5 billion investment in Scotland and Iberdrola ' s £ 24 billion investment in green energy . we also announce this week that Glasgow will host the Commonwealth game , which will bring £ 100 million to the city . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer . it be refreshing to see a Government work across department to ensure a pro - worker , pro - business and pro - growth approach that attract inward investment . after year of Scotland be let down by two poor government , how do he see this new Labour Government approach benefit my constituent in Airdrie and Shotts ? the no . 1 benefit to my hon . friend ' s constituent in Airdrie and Shotts will be that they have he for their member , champion they . I be pleased by his welcome for our approach . Airdrie and Shotts have a rich industrial heritage , and a modern industrial strategy will reignite the industrial and technological potential in all our community . the national wealth fund and great British Energy will help rebuild Scotland ' s industrial base . we want Scotland to be the most attractive part of the UK to invest in , and we will continue to work closely with the Scottish Government to make that a reality . I could not put it well than my hon . friend do : pro - worker , pro - business and pro - growth — that be this Government . early this year , the UK Conservative Government promise a £ 20 million levelling - up partnership for my city of Dundee , for project such as the university ' s life science innovation district , a new campus for Dundee and Angus college , and the Dundee Museum of Transport . despite have write two letter in the last four month seek assurance about the funding , I have so far not receive a commitment to it , which raise concern that Labour be about to renege on this commitment . can the Secretary of State assure I today that these project and the £ 20 million for Dundee will be commit to in full ? the hon . Gentleman will not have to wait long . the Budget be in about an hour ' s time , and the Chancellor will lay out all the spending plan in that Budget . the big impact on his constituency of Dundee will of course be make by GB Energy , give what that will do to our green energy system ; it make I very surprised that nobody from the SNP vote to back the Bill last night . Defence job : Scotland what discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Defence on the number of defence sector job in Scotland . the Secretary of State have regular discussion with the Ministry of Defence on support Scotland ' s defence sector , which make a vital contribution to growth in both Scotland and the UK , and help the UK remain safe in the face of current and future threat . the Secretary of State be pleased to visit the Babcock site at Rosyth dockyard recently with my hon . friend , where he see at first hand the fantastic work do there . I thank my hon . friend for that reply , and I congratulate he on his debut at the Dispatch Box this morning . as he mention , early this month the Secretary of State join I on a visit to Rosyth dockyard in my constituency . do my hon . friend agree that the failure of the SNP to support the defence sector in recruit the highly skilled worker it need from my constituency and the rest of Fife be a damn indictment of the SNP ' s commitment to the security and prosperity of the people of Scotland ? will he reassure I that he will do all he can to ensure that the defence sector in Scotland contribute fully to the UK ' s security and future economic growth ? my hon . friend have be a champion for the defence sector in his constituency since his election , and I commend he for that work . I agree that it be essential that any Government engage with the defence sector , not just because of the job create across Scotland , but because of the vital technology that the sector be develop . there be a real opportunity to create and retain skilled work in Scotland , and all of we have a responsibility to promote that as much as possible . I be happy to reassure my hon . friend that the Secretary of State for Scotland and the Government will continue to champion the defence and manufacturing sector in Scotland . Arts funding : Scotland what recent discussion he have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on fund for the art in Scotland . the Scotland Office be commit to champion scottish art , and regularly showcase the sector ' s significant cultural and economic contribution to UK and Scottish Government Ministers . in the Budget later today , the Chancellor will set out her spending decision , and those will allow the Scottish Government to make their own spending decision on devolved matter , include art funding . I be glad to hear the Secretary of State celebrate event in Scotland in his opening remark . Scotland , and the UK in general , boast one of the world ' s lead art industry , and we have the notable Edinburgh Fringe festival , but it face funding pressure due to Government cut and increase Brexit red tape , which complicate travel to Europe . british artist be be shut out of european market , which hinder their ambition and success . what step be the Minister take with other Departments to ensure that a thriving art sector be unimpede by Brexit red tape ? the hon . Lady have a background in perform art , and bring her experience to this House . I agree with she : scottish artist be world - renowned , and it be important to they and to promote scottish culture around the world that they can perform internationally . we be support scottish artist , and continue to work to help our musician tour , include through the Government ' s successful music export growth scheme , the international showcase fund , and the Department for Business and Trade ' s internationalisation fund . we be engage across Government with the EU and member state on how good to improve arrangement for tour in Europe without a return to free movement . since be elect , my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) have secure a Westminster Hall debate on the culture and economic contribution of the Edinburgh festival — the first debate on the subject since 1992 . do my hon . friend agree that that highlight the SNP Government ' s shameful treatment of the scottish creative sector , and can he outline what the UK Government will do to secure the future of the industry , and support thousand of scottish writer , artist and performer ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s comment , include those about my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) . I be pleased to attend his debate in Westminster Hall , at which those issue be discuss . the UK Government have support creative industry across Scotland , include in the city of my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh North and Leith ( Tracy Gilbert ) , with £ 8 . 6 million for the Edinburgh festival , £ 2 million of capital funding for the King ' s Theatre in Edinburgh , and £ 5 million of capital funding across Scotland for the Burrell Collection . million more have be commit to Falkirk art centre through the Falkirk and Grangemouth growth deal . we will continue to support art and culture across Scotland . Government Industrial Strategy : Scotland what discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Business and Trade on the potential impact of the Government ' s new industrial strategy on worker and business in Scotland . the crisis that we inherit from the previous Government be not just fiscal but industrial , because neither the previous Government nor the SNP have any proper industrial strategy for Scotland . our industrial strategy will deliver certainty and stability , which business need in order to invest in the high - growth sector that will drive long - term sustainable economic growth . well - pay job be at the heart of our modern industrial strategy , which be complement by our plan to make work pay . our strategy be clear : as a Government , we be pro - business and pro - worker . the new industrial strategy identify creative industry as a key sector for UK growth . my constituency be a popular setting for film and tv production , include the Lockerbie film and " Outlander " , as well as host the pyramid studio . as film and tv make an increasingly important contribution to my constituency ' s economy , what step be the Government take to support investment in the creative industry in my constituency ? my hon . friend mention " Outlander " , which be film in Bathgate and Linlithgow , as well as the Lockerbie bombing film star Colin Firth . the film " damage " be in production there . it star Samuel L . Jackson — I hope he do a few leaflet for she while he be in her constituency . the creative industry be a jewel in Scotland and the UK ' s crown , and there be the independent film tax credit announce early this week by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport . film with distinct homegrown content and talent meet the criterion for that new relief . production eligible for the tax break must have a UK writer or director , or be certify as an official UK co - production . that show that this Government be determined to back our creative industry , and to continue to grow our film and tv industry . do the Secretary of State share my anger and disappointment that the SNP Scottish Government dogmatically continue to block new nuclear development in Scotland , deprive my constituency of important job and economic prospect ? what can he do through the industrial strategy to ensure that we at least take advantage of decommissioning and supply chain opportunity ? I have never know the right hon . Gentleman to be angry or disappointed , but I share his anger and disappointment . this government back our industry . Nuclear will be a major part of the energy mix go forward , and we need to ensure that we have the right balance . GB Energy have be set up , and the relate Bill pass Third reading yesterday . I be disappointed that neither he nor the SNP vote for it , but that be the vehicle through which we will take these issue forward . economic growth : Scotland what recent discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on support economic growth in Scotland . I welcome my hon . friend to his place . the Budget , which will be announce by my right hon . friend the Chancellor shortly , will herald a new era of investment and growth in Scotland . in our first 100 day , we announce the headquarters of GB Energy in Aberdeen , launch the national wealth fund and announce the big upgrade of worker ’ right in a generation . newcastle - under - Lyme be home to many people who leave Scotland to build a life , such as my constituent Lee - Bernadette Walford . can the Secretary of State outline how reset the relationship between the UK and Scottish Governments be important for economic growth up and down our United Kingdom ? we do not agree with the Scottish Government on everything — or , indeed , very much at all — but scot expect we to work together to produce result , and that be what we have try to do . yesterday I have my regular meeting with the Deputy First Minister , and this morning I speak to the Finance Secretary ahead of the Budget . economic growth be a key area , and I be delighted to highlight share work on energy , our bring the Commonwealth game to Glasgow , and the jointly fund £ 100 - million package for the Falkirk and Grangemouth growth deal . our long - term economic strategy require the government to work together . the Prime Minister and the First Minister have be clear that that be what we be determined to do . the Secretary of State boast of a £ 150 - million investment fund , only to contradict himself , bizarrely , and say that no such figure exist . be this Scottish Schr ö dinger ' s funding ? be it perhaps the levelling - up fund refer to by my hon . friend the Member for Dundee Central ( Chris Law ) ? I be surprised that the hon . Gentleman be keen to ask a question , give that he do not apply for one in the shuffle — nor do any other SNP Member . it be also surprising that he , with all his experience in the House , want to spend his time in this new Parliament defend the previous Tory Government ' s reckless gamble with the economy . order . I do not know whether the Chair of the Select Committee be stand or not . do you want to come in on this question ? yes , thank you , Mr Speaker . do my right hon . friend the Secretary of State agree that the Drumchapel levelling - up fund bid and the project that would follow from that would be a good way to promote the economic and social growth of the area ? my hon . friend have be a doughty campaigner for the Drumchapel project . she will not have long to wait , as the Chancellor will come to the Dispatch Box shortly and announce the Budget . I be hopeful that all these project , include some of the anti - poverty project that my hon . friend have champion for year in her constituency , come to pass . when it come to promote economic growth in Scotland , it be clear that the good way to do that be from within this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . what be the Minister do to make that happen , and to convince my SNP colleague sit in front of I of the good way forward ? the good way to keep the United Kingdom together be to make sure that this be a successful UK Labour Government , and that be what we be determined to do . may I point the hon . gentleman to the row in front of he ? there be nine SNP mp leave , and we have 37 Scottish Labour mps . that be how we protect the Union . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Secretary of State say at the weekend that the Labour Budget " will herald an era of growth for Scotland " , but what be go to grow ? be it the tax burden on hard - work scot , the number of pensioner choose between heating and eat because they have not get their winter fuel payment , or the number of Labour broken promise ? or will we get all three this afternoon ? the hon . Gentleman have a second opportunity to apologise for the conservative party crash the economy , and the dreadful £ 22 - billion black hole that we inherit , which be hide from the Office for Budget Responsibility . I ask the shadow Secretary of State to reflect on that before he ask his question . of course , he will not have long to wait to find out , as the Chancellor will be here shortly . there be no answer in that response . not so long ago , the Secretary of State say that a national insurance rise would have " an enormous impact " on business . he also say that " under Labour , National Insurance wouldn ' t go up " . tax rise , economic damage and broken promise — be this Labour Government not just the same as the SNP ? I think the shadow Secretary of State be just describe his previous Government . Employment Rights : Scotland what recent discussion he have have with the Secretary of State for Business and Trade on support employment right in Scotland . my hon . friend will know that the House recently give the Employment Rights Bill its second reading . shamefully , the conservative party oppose the Bill , which be the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation . the Government be take a join - up and collaborative approach to the delivery of the plan to make work pay , which have be develop with business and trade union . we be committed to continue that approach through consultation on the plan ' s implementation , to ensure that the change we be make work well for both employee and business . I be sure the whole House will join I in congratulate my hon . friend the Member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) on the birth of his daughter Connie . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] as my hon . friend enjoy his paternity leave , I be sure the Minister will be familiar with the Dad Shift campaign , which seek to increase paternity leave for more father . will he support that campaign so that more father can enjoy paternity leave , in addition to the ten of thousand the Government have already open it up to , and do he agree that that be a huge contrast with the conservative party ' s spend its time talk about get rid of maternity leave ? I send our congratulation to my hon . friend the Member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) on the birth of his daughter , and I agree with what my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) say . that be why we be make immediate change to paternity leave through the Employment Rights Bill . we be make paternity leave available from day one in a new job and enable it to be take after share parental leave . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his vigorous campaigning on this issue . I be sure that , like I , he be delighted to vote for the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation , which the conservative party shamefully oppose . one of the criticism of the employment legislation that be be bring in be that it deliver we into the hand of the trade union baron . do the Secretary of State agree that we be indeed in the iron grip of the baron , since he be unable to attend an event in his own office last night because he would not cross a picket line ? we will take absolutely no lesson on employment right from the conservative party , which leave we with a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance that we be have to pick up . my right hon . friend the Chancellor will address that in a moment . I join the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) in congratulate the hon . member for High Peak ( Jon Pearce ) on the birth of his daughter . on the demographic challenge , just before the election the Scottish Labour deputy leader say " there be something we can do to incentivise " more people to come to Scotland . in term of employment in Scotland , have the Secretary of State and colleague sit down with the Home Office to discuss encourage more migration ? the Government will work closely with the Migration Advisory Committee . we welcome the contribution that migrant make to the economy , but we will take no lesson from a party that have consistently say that the positive destination for people in Scotland be a zero - hour contract , and whose member sit on their hand last night when we deal with the great british Energy Bill . let I try to challenge the hon . member . in a spirit of collegiality , the UK Government have commit to work with the Scottish Government . the hon . member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) , who be in his place , have say : " when it come to immigration policy one size do not fit all . it shouldn ' t be beyond we to devise way to attract more people to work and settle here . " will the Minister confirm that the Scottish and UK government should work together , and will he commit to a meeting between the government so that we can take forward the idea of more migration to Scotland , which the Labour party commit to and we commit to , and business be cry out for ? we have commit to scottish representation on the Migration Advisory Committee , which would go a long way to deal with these issue , but it be for the Scottish Government to do thing like build house in area where we need more migration in order to encourage people to come to live in Scotland . offshore wind : UNESCO World Heritage Sites whether he have have discussion with the Scottish Government on the criterion for assess the potential impact of planning application for offshore wind near UNESCO world heritage site . Scotland be rightly proud of its six world heritage site . as the hon . Gentleman will appreciate , responsibility for planning decision for large - scale energy project in Scotland rest with Scottish Government Ministers . the UK Government work closely with the Scottish Government to deliver for Scotland , while respect devolution . I meet regularly with my Scottish Government counterpart on these issue . I call Gregory Campbell . I thank — [ interruption . ] I thank the Secretary of State for his reply . in any discussion he have , will he take account of the fact that I have write to UNESCO about the potential for a huge offshore wind farm very close to the Giant ' s Causeway and the UNESCO world heritage site there ? the Communities Minister in Northern Ireland have also meet UNESCO . will the Secretary of State make representation to ensure that all consideration be take account of , so that people know the problem that may compromise that world heritage site ? I be glad that the hon . Member have not lose any of his popularity in the House . it would be inappropriate for I to comment on planning decision for large - scale energy project in Scotland , as it be a devolved responsibility . I recognise the importance of consider the protection of local asset when develop renewable project , particularly at cherish world heritage site . Speaker ' s statement I wish to remind the House that , follow the horrendous , terrible incident in Southport on 29 July , a suspect be await trial , have be charge with multiple offence . that mean that the House ' s sub judice resolution be engage , and reference should not be make to the case . I know that all hon . member wish to see justice do in this case . it be therefore paramount that nothing be say in this House that could potentially prejudice a proper trial or lead to it be abandon . I know it can be frustrating when we see report in the medium of matter that we be not free to discuss here , but that arise from Parliament ' s constitutional relationship with the court . more importantly , at the heart of this case be three young girl . we all want justice to be do for they and their family , and for other injure in and affect by this appalling incident . speculation about the case , include comment make in this House , could seriously risk prejudice proceeding . I know that none of we would ever wish to do that . therefore , it would be wrong of I to exercise a waiver in this case . member should not refer to it , or risk prejudice it . I understand that member have legitimate question about the circumstance surround this case . no doubt , they will want Ministers to commit to come to the House and answer those question once the legal proceeding have conclude . I give my assurance that I will ensure ample opportunity to do so . my understanding be that the trial be expect to start in January . if member have question about the operation of and the decision on the sub judice resolution , they can speak to the Clerks and the Speaker ' s Counsel . in the meantime , our thought be with the family and friend of Bebe , Elsie and Alice , and all those who be injure and affect on that horrendous day . oral Answers to Questions Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — before I call the Prime Minister , I would like to mark the fact that this be the last time that the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) will appear at the Dispatch Box during Prime Minister ' s question — although he have a bit more to do afterwards . he have speak at the Dispatch Boxes as Chancellor of the Exchequer , Prime Minister and Leader of the Opposition . after today , we all look forward to his continued contribution from the Back Benches . we wish he and his family well in their future endeavour . I thank he personally for our working relationship . engagement if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 30 October . I wish everyone celebrate in the UK and around the world a joyful Diwali . it be a time to come together to celebrate and focus on a bright future . last Diwali , the Leader of the Opposition and his family light the diyas outside no . 10 Downing Street . it be a significant moment in our national story . the first british asian Prime Minister be a reminder that this be a country where people of every background can fulfil their dream , and it make we all proud to be british . as you just mention , Mr Speaker , this be our last exchange across the Dispatch Boxes , so I want to take this opportunity to thank the Leader of the Opposition for his service . we have have political disagreement and ideological difference , and we have argue at some length , but I want to thank he for his hard work , commitment and decency in everything he have do . I , too , wish he and his family the very good for whatever the future may hold for they . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I will have further such meeting later today . I would like to associate myself with the remark make by the Prime Minister . Cumbernauld in my constituency be promise an elective and diagnostic treatment centre by the Scottish Government in 2021 . this have continue to be delay and be now allege to be mothball . what assurance can the Prime Minister give I that any Barnett consequential from today ' s Budget will be use to benefit my constituent and not be hold on to by the Scottish Government ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I be sorry to hear about the delay affect her constituent . the party opposite oversaw year of mismanagement and chaos , and the impact on the Scottish NHS be evident . this Labour Government be commit to deliver for the scottish people , include make sure that we have an NHS fit for the future . the Chancellor will set out the detail in just a few moment . I call the Leader of the Opposition . Mr Speaker , thank you for your kind word — and , indeed , I thank the Prime Minister for his kind word . no Prime Minister look forward to pmq , but I always do like this pre - Budget one . it be , for a change , nice not to be the main event but just the warm - up act . as you say , Mr Speaker , today be my last appearance at pmq . I be happy to confirm report that I will now be spend more time in the great place on earth , where the scenery be worthy of a movie set and everyone be a character . that ' s right , Mr Speaker , if anyone need I , I will be in Yorkshire . as an adopt Yorkshireman , I be particularly look forward to do the coast - to - coast walk that run through my constituency and many other . since 2015 , we have make significant progress with the campaign to make it a national trail , and Natural England be close to conclude its work . can I ask the Prime Minister to ensure that the coast - to - coast walk do indeed become Britain ' s great national trail , and , in preparation for my return to the Back Benches , will he meet with I to discuss it ? Mr Speaker , I think the right hon . Gentleman be about to ask I to join he on the walk . [ laughter . ] certainly I will meet he , and that be an important point . that be very kind of the Prime Minister . I know he be partial to the Lake district , but perhaps we can tempt he over to our end as well . Yorkshire be famous not just for its walk , but for be home to some of England ' s great cricketer . sadly , no one be go to put I on that list — but who know ? I now have a lot more time to practise . Cricket have the power to bring people from all community together and give they fantastic opportunity , as be show so powerfully by Andrew Flintoff ' s recent documentary . we lead the world in female participation , and that will stand we in good stead when we host the woman ' s world cup in 2026 and when cricket become an olympic sport in 2028 . can I therefore ask the Prime Minister to continue Government support for the England and Wales Cricket Board ' s new initiative to get cricket into vastly more state school , foster a whole new generation of cricketer for we all to cheer on at every level ? yes , be the answer to that question . that point be a really important one . we celebrate cricket and it do bring community together , but it be also really important for child and young people to enjoy lot of different sport . it give they a confidence that they might not otherwise have and the ability to work in a team , and it teach they about skill like leadership , so I be fully supportive . our two predecessor , Sir Tony Blair and Lord Hague , have repeatedly come together and powerfully argue in their joint report that it be vital for the future prosperity of Britain ' s economy , society and public service for we to be a world leader in technology and innovation . the Prime Minister and I may not yet be at our joint report write stage , but in a similar spirit of cross - party agreement , could I ask he to find his inner tech bro and continue to support emerge british tech business and establish our country as the home of AI growth and innovation ? yes , and that be a really important point . last year , the Leader of the opposition hold a summit on AI , which be very important . we have be bring together the leader in AI . we have a huge advantage in this country , be rank in the top three in the world . AI will have huge potential for our growth and our public service , and I think that the whole House should be fully supportive of it . the Prime Minister have the immense privilege of be Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . Northern Ireland be a special part of our Union , but one that need particular care , attention and respect . have a strong , function Assembly at Stormont be good for the people of Northern Ireland and good for our Union , which be why I be so pleased to see government restore there early this year , and I be grateful to the Prime Minister for his support with that . can he assure the House that he will continue to work to keep Stormont open , deliver for the northern irish people and strengthen Northern Ireland ' s place in our Union ? yes . again , that be a very important point , and it be one that matter to I personally . I work for five year in Northern Ireland on some of the proposal under the Good Friday agreement , in particular the transformation of the Royal Ulster Constabulary into the Police Service of Northern Ireland . I work with both community there for those five year . that be very important to I and it have a huge impact on I , so I care deeply about Northern Ireland . I absolutely agree that the institution of government need to be up and run , and I want to give all the support I can to further development in Northern Ireland . as Prime Minister , the right hon . and learn Gentleman will be acutely aware of the threat that our United Kingdom face from an axis of authoritarian state : Iran , North Korea , Russia and China . in particular , I be proud of the way in which this House have unite in stand up to russian aggression in Ukraine , and I know that we will never waver in our commitment to the ukrainian cause . I will always be grateful for the support that the Prime Minister give I when we be the first country to send Ukraine western battle tank and long - range missile , and the first to offer security assurance to Kyiv . in the light of the threat that we face , may I urge he always to maintain the strength of the transatlantic alliance and to ensure that NATO remain the bedrock of western security , with the United Kingdom play a lead role ? yes . NATO be , in my view , as important today as it be on the day on which it be create , in the light of the challenge that we face . it be a Labour Government who be the proud co - founder of NATO , and we repeatedly say that we support NATO to the hilt . finally , may I point out that tomorrow be Diwali ? I become leader of my party during Diwali , and I now stand down during that same festival . I be proud to have be the first british asian Prime Minister , but I be even proud that it be not that big a deal . that speak volume about the value of the british people , of our country , and of this Parliament . will the Prime Minister join I in applaud the kindness , decency and tolerance that have always be the british way ? yes , and I mean it when I say that we be all proud to see the right hon . Gentleman stand there as Prime Minister represent our diverse country . we be all proud : I think everyone in the House be . I thank he for that , and for his last question as Leader of the opposition — although , give the speed with which his party go through leader , he may be back here before too long . in the meantime , I be sure that he will be a great champion for the people of Richmond . finally , I be sure that the right hon . Gentleman will not mind my disclosing to the House the content of a letter that he write to I this week . my answer to it be clear : yes , I will arrange for he to meet the relevant Minister about the A66 , which run through his constituency . in Hackney , nearly 4 , 000 child who could fill eight primary school be in temporary accommodation , in many case outside London . that be bad for their future opportunity , and it be rip our community apart . I welcome the Government ' s pledge to build new home , but will the Prime Minister ensure that those who can not have a roof over their head be a top priority in that long queue for new housing ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . it be a source of national shame that there be just under 1 . 3 million household on a social housing waiting list , include , I think , 8 , 000 in Hackney . the good way to tackle overcrowding and meet housing need be to build the home this country need , and that be why we will deliver 1 . 5 million home over this Parliament . the Chancellor will set out further detail in just a moment . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . thank you , Mr Speaker . may I associate myself with your remark and those of the Prime Minister about the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , and thank he for his service ? I wish he and the whole country a happy Diwali . despite our political difference , I have always feel a certain kinship with he since the general election , when he be the only other party leader to get as wet as I do . [ laughter . ] I be look forward to debate the Budget with he and the Chancellor shortly , but may I wish he and his family all the good for the future ? next month ' s summit in Baku be a chance for the UK to regain world leadership on climate change — a role disastrously lose under the Conservatives . as this be the final summit before country must ratchet up their new Paris agreement target for 2035 , will the Prime Minister take this opportunity to seize back world leadership on climate change by commit today to support the target set out this week by the independent Climate Change Committee and publish a programme to deliver on they ? we will seize that initiative . we have reset on the international stage , and climate be one of the big challenge that we face . I will be go to the conference this year , just as I go last year as Leader of the Opposition , to continue those discussion about how we reach the very important target that we must reach . I thank the Prime Minister for his reply . I hope we really can take that world leadership back again . another issue on which the UK need to show urgent leadership be the escalate war in Sudan . ten of thousand of people have be kill , and 11 million Sudanese have have to flee from their home . the report of mass killing and horrify sexual violence against woman be truly stomach - churning . when the UK take over the presidency of the UN Security Council this Friday , will the Prime Minister make it a priority to secure a new resolution on prevent future atrocity , include a no - fly zone to stop the iranian drone ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this , because it be an important issue and I do not think we discuss it enough in this House . we continue to see mount evidence of appal atrocity against civilian and unacceptable restriction on humanit - arian access . work with international partner — include as penholder at the UN Security Council , as he know — to end the violence , secure humanitarian access and ensure the protection of civilian be a major priority . this Labour Government have set up a child poverty taskforce , which be determined to move 4 . 3 million child in poverty into a well future . however , we also inherit 2 . 1 million old people in poverty . will my right hon . friend the Prime Minister agree to set up a pensioner poverty taskforce so that old people do not have to worry about pay for their housing , food and heating cost , ensure that they have dignity in later life ? the scale of poverty that we inherit in this country be truly appalling , with over 4 million child now grow up in low - income family . we will deliver on our manifesto commitment to tackle child poverty , as we do last time in government . we will publish our strategy in the spring . the ICJ have mandate that Israel must ensure access to lifesave aid in Gaza under article 2 of the genocide convention , yet the israeli Government have vote to effectively block its delivery . as a human right lawyer , do the Prime Minister agree that ban UNRWA be a breach of international law ? how much more evidence do he need before he call out what be happen as genocide and act in line with the UK ' s responsibility as a signatory to the genocide convention ? I be very worried and concerned about the decision that have just be take by the Parliament in relation to UNRWA . there be a humanitarian catastrophe in Gaza , and that decision will only make it much bad , which be why I have express my concern about it already , before today , and will continue to do so . it need to be reverse very quickly indeed . I have never describe what be go on in Gaza as genocide , but I do agree that all side should comply with international law . last month the Scottish Government Health Minister be force to apologise for wait time in my area of Fife , where some patient wait more than two year for treatment . my constituent deserve so much well than this . do the Prime Minister agree that the Scottish National party must take responsibility for 17 year of failure and that , if today ' s Budget deliver a big block grant to Scotland , the SNP must sort out the mess it have make of Scotland ' s precious nhs ? this be the second time this have come up this afternoon in Prime Minister ' s question , and I hope that SNP Members be listen good and hard . I be sorry to hear that my hon . friend ' s constituent have be wait so many year for the medical treatment that they need . we be commit to the NHS , and the Chancellor will have a lot more to say about that in just a moment . the Government ' s own independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , Jonathan Hall KC , have say repeatedly recently that it be important in incident of terrorism that the authority put out more information soon in order to prevent an information gap . do the Prime Minister agree ? obviously I will tread carefully in answer this question , Mr Speaker , for the very reason that you set out at the beginning of this session . it be very important , first and foremost , that in all case , include the particularly difficult case that the Speaker mention early , the police and prosecutor be able to do their difficult job . all of we in this House have a choice to make , include both candidate to be the next Tory leader . they can either support the police in their difficult task or they can undermine the police in their difficult task . I know which side I be on . minute from here , in the community of Victoria , Pimlico , Paddington and Covent Garden , there be an unprecedented rise in the number of people sleep rough after 14 year of the Tory Government . will the Prime Minister update the House on the cross - departmental homelessness strategy , and do he agree that this Labour Government have a once - in - a - generation opportunity to end rough sleeping for good ? homelessness level be far too high in this country , and we be develop a long - term strategy , work with mayor and local leader , to end homelessness once and for all . we be take action to tackle the root cause , which be deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation , and we have pick up where the Conservatives fail by abolish no - fault eviction , prevent many renter from end up homeless . first we have the embarrassment of the Labour party be sue by the Trump campaign . then we have the national capitulation — order . let I hear the rest of the question , please . thank you , Mr Speaker . then we have the national capitulation of the Government over the sovereignty of the Chagos island , and now we have have the personal humiliation of the Prime Minister at the Commonwealth Heads of Government summit , all of which beg the question : how on earth do the Foreign Secretary still have the full confidence of the Prime Minister ? I be intend to say that the hon . Gentleman be an upgrade on his predecessor , who of course drive up mortgage by thousand of pound , but I withdraw that now . when the Prime Minister and the Chancellor discuss the importance of support work family , I think of the dedicated farmer in South Norfolk . the Prime Minister have consistently acknowledge the critical role of food security and the need for farmer to have certainty to plan . can he confirm what action our Government will be take to back british farming in constituency like mine ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place . talk of predecessor , no one do more damage to rural constituency than his nearby predecessor , whose disastrous mini - Budget crash the economy and hurt his constituent . I note that she have be tweet her approval of the shadow Chancellor ' s attack on the independent Office for Budget Responsibility , show that the conservative party have learn absolutely nothing . More than 12 , 000 farmer have be force out of business due to Tory neglect , but we will turn that around . my hon . friend will hear more about that in the Budget in just a minute . the Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt hospital in Oswestry , in my constituency , be home to the veteran ' orthopaedic service , which be by far the large provider of veteran ' hospital care in the country . it be a fine example of what can be build when the national health service and local authority work together . it cost no extra public money to set it up but , because of NHS change in how integrate care board charge each other , it have be leave with a funding shortfall . will the Prime Minister come to visit this fantastic facility in beautiful North Shropshire to see for himself why it be so important that we keep it go ? I thank the hon . member for raise this issue . we be all grateful to our veteran for their service in protect our country . I understand the value of the Veterans ' Orthopaedic Service and the support it provide for veteran . we be committed to ensure that veteran receive the employment , mental health and housing support they need . the upcoming Budget will set out the change we will be make . after 14 year of failure by the last government to renew and grow the UK ' s infrastructure , do the Prime Minister agree that additional investment be need to kick - start economic growth , and that — this be the important bit . do the Prime Minister agree that invest in a new low Thames cross to relieve Dartford resident from the gridlock cause by overcapacity at the Dartford crossing , thereby boost the north Kent and UK economy by £ 40 billion , would be an excellent starting project ? I be really pleased that , under this government , Britain have already secure £ 63 billion - worth of investment , which will be measure in ten of thousand of job . our no . 1 mission be growth , and my hon . friend will be hear a lot more about that in a few minute ' time . my constituent Colin and Mandy Mackie ' s 18 - year - old son , Greg , die after have his soft drink spike shortly after he go to college . they welcome the fact that this Government will continue with the legislation propose by the previous Government . can the Prime Minister assure they and other campaigner that Ministers and official will work with they not only on bring forward this legislation , but on raise awareness of this abhorrent practice and its potentially fatal consequence ? I thank the right hon . member for raise this tragic case , and I join he in pay tribute to Greg ' s parent . their tireless work to raise awareness of spiking , to support victim and to call for change in the law be inspire , give what they have be through . this Government will act . we will make spike a specific criminal offence to well protect victim and support the police in tackle these crime . our leisure centre in Farnborough be knock down by the conservative council , which make empty promise to replace it with an expensive civic hub , with no viable plan to pay for it . will the Prime Minister help to secure the funding that Rushmoor borough council need to rebuild our leisure centre , so that Labour can start deliver change after year of Tory failure ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place . she be the first female and first Labour MP for Aldershot , and she be do a superb job for her constituent . Rushmoor borough council be leave with a shortfall of over £ 19 million over the last four year . the run down of local service have be one of the most painful feature of the last 14 year . we will work hand in hand with council , include on multi - year funding settlement , and with local leader to develop and make sure the service that be need be there . I call Mark Francois to ask the final question . Prime Minister , you mention veteran a few minute ago . as we approach remembrance time , one group of veteran we all owe a great debt to are those who serve during the trouble in Northern Ireland . hundred be kill and thousand be maim , by both republican and so - call loyalist bomb . many of those veteran be now in the autumn of their life , yet you be propose to repeal the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 , which be design in part to protect they from endless investigation and reinvestigation . why , sir , be you throw those veteran to the wolf to pander to Sinn F é in ? order . the right hon . Member have be here for a long time — " you " be not I , and I do not want it to be I . I be not . Financial Statement and Budget Report Order . before I call the Chancellor of the Exchequer , I would like to make a short statement . over the past few day , minister have make a series of new policy announcement with significant and wide - range implication for the Government ' s fiscal policy and for the public finance . it be evident to I that they should have be make in this House in the first instance . the principle be unambiguously set out in paragraph 9 . 1 of the ministerial code . the premature disclosure of the content of the Budget have always be regard as a supreme discourtesy to this House and to all of its democratically elect MP , not to mention to Mr Speaker and the Chairman of Ways and Means — [ interruption . ] I really do not need any help . let I remind member on the Treasury Bench that the Budget statement and the ensue resolution be " the most important business of Ways and Means " in the House , as set out in " Erskine May " paragraph 36 . 33 . I be disappoint by comment make by Government spokespeople believe they can use precedent as an excuse . I be tell they today that they be entirely wrong . Mr Speaker have always defend the undoubted right of this House , include member of Opposition party and Back Benchers from all part of the House , to be the first to hear major government policy announcement on behalf of their constituent . as Chairman of Ways and Means , I have responsibility to oversee the House ' s consideration of the Budget fairly and impartially , and to ensure hon . member on both side of the House have adequate opportunity to hold the Chancellor to account . finally , we , collectively , should all remember to respect the Chair , respect our colleague and respect this House . before I call the Chancellor of the Exchequer , I remind hon . member that copy of the Budget resolution will be available from the Vote Office in the Members ' Lobby at the end of the Chancellor ' s statement , and online . I also remind hon . member that intervention be not take during the Chancellor ' s statement , nor during the reply of the Leader of the Opposition or the Leader of the Liberal Democrat party . I call the Chancellor of the Exchequer . Madam Deputy Speaker , on 4 July , the country vote for change . this Government be give a mandate : to restore stability to our economy and to begin a decade of national renewal ; to fix the foundation and deliver change through responsible leadership in the national interest . that be our task , and I know that we can achieve it . my belief in Britain burn bright than ever , and the prize on offer be immense . as my right hon . friend the Prime Minister say on Monday , change must be feel : more pound in people ' s pocket ; an nhs that be there when we need it ; and an economy that be grow , create wealth and opportunity for all , because that be the only way to improve living standard . the only way to drive economic growth be to invest , invest , invest . there be no shortcuts , and , to deliver that investment , we must restore economic stability and turn the page on the last 14 year . this be not the first time that it have fall to the Labour party to rebuild Britain . in 1945 , it be the Labour party that rebuild our country out of the rubble of the second world war . in 1964 , it be the Labour party that rebuild Britain with the white heat of technology , and , in 1997 , it be the Labour party that rebuild our school and our hospital . today , it fall to this Labour party — to this Labour Government — to rebuild Britain once again . and while this be the first Budget in more than 14 year to be deliver by a Labour Chancellor , it be the first Budget in our country ' s history to be deliver by a woman . I be deeply proud to be Britain ' s first ever female Chancellor of the Exchequer . to girl and young woman everywhere , I say : let there be no ceiling on your ambition , your hope and your dream . along with the pride that I feel stand here today , there be also a responsibility to pass on a fairer society and a strong economy to the next generation of woman . Madam Deputy Speaker , the conservative party fail our country : its austerity break our national health service ; its Brexit deal harm british business ; and its mini - Budget leave family pay the price with high mortgage . the british people have inherit the conservative party ' s failure : a black hole in the public finance ; public service on their knee ; a decade of low growth ; and the bad Parliament on record for living standard . let I begin with the public finance . in July , I expose a £ 22 billion black hole at the heart of the previous Government ' s plan — a series of promise that they make , but have no money to deliver — cover up from the british people and cover up from this House . the Treasury ' s reserve , set aside for genuine emergency , be spend three time over just three month into the financial year . today , on top of the detailed document that I provide to the House in July , the Government be publish a line - by - line breakdown of the £ 22 billion black hole that we inherit , which show hundred of unfunded pressure on the public finance this year , and into the future too . the Office for Budget Responsibility have publish its own review of the circumstance around the spring Budget forecast . it say that the previous Government " do not provide the OBR with all the information to they " and that , have the OBR know about these " undisclosed spending pressure that have since come to light " , then its spring Budget forecast for spending would have be " materially different " . let I be clear : that mean that any comparison between today ' s forecast and the OBR ' s March forecast be false , because the previous Government hide the reality of their public spending plan . yet at the very same budget , they make another £ 10 billion - worth of cut to national insurance . it be the height of irresponsibility , and they know it . they have run out of road , and they call an election to avoid make difficult choice . so let I make this promise to the british people : never again will we allow a Government to play fast and loose with the public finance and never again will we allow a Government to hide the true state of our public finance from our independent forecaster . that be why I can today confirm that we will implement in full the 10 recommendation from the independent Office for Budget Responsibility ' s review . the country have inherit not just break public finance , but break public service . the british people can see and feel that in their everyday life : NHS waiting list at record level ; child in portacabin as school roof crumble ; train that do not arrive ; river fill with polluted waste ; prison overflow ; crime that be not investigate ; and criminal who be not punish . that be the country ' s inheritance from the Conservative Government . they have no plan to improve our public service and they have no plan to put our public finance on a sustainable footing — quite the opposite . since 2021 , there have be no detailed plan for departmental spending set out beyond this year , and the previous Government ' s plan rely on a baseline for spending this year , which we now know be wrong because it do not take into account the £ 22 billion black hole . they also fail to budget for cost that they know would materialise , include funding for vital compensation scheme for victim of two terrible injustice — [ interruption . ] order . I have just speak about respect colleague . the public be watch , and they want to hear what the Chancellor have to say . simmer down . I would politely suggest that hon . member listen to this , because it include fund for vital compensation scheme for victim of two terrible injustice : the infected blood scandal and the Post Office Horizon scandal . the Leader of the opposition rightly make an unequivocal apology for the injustice of the infected blood scandal on behalf of the british state , but he do not budget for the cost of compensation . today , for the very first time , we will provide specific funding to compensate those infected and those affect in full , with £ 11 . 8 billion in this Budget . I be also today set aside £ 1 . 8 billion to compensate victim of the Post Office Horizon scandal — redress that be long overdue for the pain and injustice that they have suffer . the leadership campaign for the conservative party have now be go on for over three month , but in all that time there have be not one single apology for what they do to our country . the conservative party have not change — but this be a change Labour party and we will restore stability to our country once again . the scale and seriousness of the situation that we have inherit can not be underestimate . together , the hole in our public finance this year , which recur every year , the compensation scheme that the previous Government do not fund , and their failure to assess the scale of the challenge face our public service , mean that this Budget raise taxis by £ 40 billion . any Chancellor stand here today would have to face this reality , and any responsible Chancellor would take action . that be why today I be restore stability to our public finance and rebuild our public service . as a former economist at the Bank of England , I know what it mean to respect our economic institution . I put on record my thank to the Governor of the Bank , Andrew Bailey , and the independent Monetary Policy Committee . today , I can confirm that we will maintain the MPC ' s target of 2 % inflation , as measure by the 12 - month increase in the consumer price index . I thank James Bowler , the permanent secretary to the Treasury , and my team of official . I also thank my predecessor as Chancellor of the Exchequer for their wise counsel as I have prepare for this Budget . in particular , I thank the former right hon . member for Spelthorne for his invaluable advice in this weekend ' s paper , where he conclude that his mini - budget " wasn ' t perfect " . for once , he and I be in absolute agreement . finally , I thank Richard Hughes and his team at the Office for Budget Responsibility for their work in prepare today ' s economic and fiscal outlook . let I take the House through that forecast . the cost of live crisis under the last government stretch household finance to their limit , with inflation hit a peak of above 11 % . today , the OBR say that CPI inflation will average 2 . 5 % this year , 2 . 6 % in 2025 , 2 . 3 % in 2026 , 2 . 1 % in 2027 , 2 . 1 % in 2028 and 2 . 0 % in 2029 . move on to economic growth , today ' s Budget mark an end to short - termism , so I be pleased that , for the first time , the OBR have publish not only five - year growth forecast but a detailed assessment of the growth impact of our policy over the next decade . the new charter for Budget responsibility , which I be publish today , confirm that this will become a permanent feature of our framework . the OBR forecast that real GDP growth will be 1 . 1 % in 2024 , 2 . 0 % in 2025 , 1 . 8 % in 2026 , 1 . 5 % in 2027 , 1 . 5 % in 2028 and 1 . 6 % in 2029 . the OBR be clear : this Budget will permanently increase the supply capacity of the economy , boost long - term growth . [ interruption . ] it may sound shocking to Conservative Members , but this Government be boost long - term economic growth . every Budget that I deliver will be focus on our mission to grow the economy , and underpin that mission be the seven key pillar of our growth strategy , develop and deliver alongside business , and all drive forward by our excellent Financial Secretary to the Treasury . the first and most important be to restore economic stability . that be my focus today . secondly , increase investment and build new infrastructure be vital for productivity , so we be catalyse £ 70 billion of investment through our national wealth fund , and we be transform our planning rule to get Britain build again . thirdly , to ensure that all part of the UK can realise their potential we be work with the devolved government and partner with our mayor to develop local growth plan . fourthly , to improve employment prospect and skill we be create Skills England , deliver our plan to make work pay and tackle economic inactivity . fifthly , we be launch our long - term modern industrial strategy and expand opportunity for our small and medium - sized business to grow . sixthly , to drive innovation , we be protect record funding for research and development to harness the full potential of the UK ' s science base . finally , to maximise the growth benefit of our clean energy mission , we have confirm key investment , such as carbon capture and storage , to create job in our industrial heartland . our approach be already have an impact : just two week ago , we deliver an international investment summit that see business commit £ 63 . 5 billion of investment into our country , create nearly 40 , 000 job across the United Kingdom . but we can not undo 14 year of damage in one go . economic growth will be our mission for the duration of this Parliament . in our manifesto , we set out the fiscal rule that would guide this Government . I be confirm those today : our stability rule and our investment rule . the stability rule mean that we will bring the current Budget into balance so that we do not borrow to fund day - to - day spending . we will meet that rule in 2029 - 30 , until that become the third year of the forecast . from then on , we will balance the current Budget in the third year of every Budget , hold annually each autumn . that will provide a tough constraint on day - to - day spending , so that difficult decision can not be constantly delay or defer . the OBR say that the current Budget will be in deficit by £ 26 . 2 billion in 2025 - 26 and by £ 5 . 2 billion in 2026 - 27 , before move into surplus of £ 10 . 9 billion in 2027 - 28 , £ 9 . 3 billion in 2028 - 29 and £ 9 . 9 billion in 2029 - 30 , meet our stability rule two year early . monthly public sector finance datum show that government borrow in the first six month of this year be already run significantly high than the OBR ' s March forecast , and the OBR confirm today that borrow in this financial year be now £ 127 billion , reflect the inheritance leave by the conservative party . the increase in the net cash requirement in 2024 - 25 be low than the increase in borrowing , at £ 22 . 3 billion high than the spring forecast . because of the action that we be take , borrowing fall from 4 . 5 % of gdp this year to 2 . 1 % of gdp by the end of the forecast . public sector net borrowing will be £ 105 . 6 billion in 2025 - 26 , £ 88 . 5 billion in 2026 - 27 , £ 72 . 2 billion in 2027 - 28 , £ 71 . 9 billion in 2028 - 29 and £ 70 . 6 billion in 2029 - 30 . before I come to tax , it be vital that we be drive efficiency and reduce wasteful spending . in July , to begin deal with our inheritance , I make £ 5 . 5 billion of saving this year . today we be set a 2 % productivity , efficiency and saving target for all Departments to meet next year by use technology more effectively and join up service across Government . as set out in our manifesto , I will shortly be appoint our covid corruption commissioner . they will lead our work to uncover those company that use a national emergency to line their own pocket , because that money belong in our public service , and taxpayer want it back . I can confirm today that David Goldstone have be appoint chair of the new office for value for money to help we realise the benefit from every pound of public spending . today , I be also take three step to ensure that welfare spending be more sustainable . first , we inherit the last Government ' s plan to reform the work capability assessment . we will deliver those saving as part of our fundamental reform to the health and disability benefit system that my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary will bring forward . secondly , I can today announce a crackdown on fraud in our welfare system — often the work of criminal gang . we will expand the DWP ' s counter - fraud team , use innovative new method to prevent illegal activity , and provide new legal power to crack down on fraudster , include direct access to bank account to recover debt . that package save £ 4 . 3 billion a year by the end of the forecast . thirdly , the Government will shortly be publish the " get Britain work " White Paper , tackle the root cause of inactivity with an integrated approach across health , education and welfare , and we will provide £ 240 million for 16 trailblazer project , target at those who be economically inactive and most at risk of be out of education , employment or training , to get people into work and reduce the benefit bill . before a Government can consider any change to a tax rate or threshold , they must ensure that people pay what they already owe . we will invest to modernise his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs system use the very good technology , and recruit additional HMRC compliance and debt staff . we will clamp down on the umbrella company that exploit worker , increase the interest rate on unpaid tax debt to ensure that people pay on time , and go after the promoter of tax avoidance scheme . those measure to reduce the tax gap raise £ 6 . 5 billion by the end of the forecast , and I thank the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury for his outstanding work on that agenda . I know that for work people up and down our country , family finance be stretch and pay cheque do not go as far as they once do , so today I be take step to support people with the cost of living . it be the Labour Government who introduce the national minimum wage in 1999 . that have a transformative impact on the life of work people . as promise in our manifesto , we ask the Low Pay Commission to take account of the cost of live for the first time . I can confirm that we will accept the commission ' s recommendation to increase the national living wage by 6 . 7 % to £ 12 . 21 an hour , worth up to £ 1 , 400 a year for a full - time worker . and , for the first time , we will move towards a single adult rate , phase in over time by initially increase the national minimum wage for 18 to 20 - year - old by 16 . 3 % , as recommend by the Low Pay Commission , take it to £ 10 an hour — a Labour policy to protect work people , be deliver by a Labour Government once again . secondly , I have hear representation from colleague across this House , include my hon . friend the Members for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) and for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) , and the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , about the carer ' s allowance and the impact of the current policy on carer who be look to increase the hour that they work . carer ' s allowance currently provide up to £ 81 . 90 per week to help those with additional caring responsibility . today , I can confirm that we be increase the weekly earning limit to the equivalent of 16 hour at the national living wage per week — the large increase in the carer ' s allowance since it be introduce in 1976 . that mean that a carer can now earn over £ 10 , 000 a year while receive carer ' s allowance , allow they to increase their hour where they want to , and keep more of their money . I be also concerned about the cliff edge in the current system and the issue of overpayment . my right hon . friend the Work and Pensions Secretary have announce an independent review to look at the issue of overpayment , and we will work across the House to develop the right solution . thirdly , we will provide £ 1 billion from next year to extend the household support fund and discretionary housing payment to help those face financial hardship with the cost of essential . fourthly , have hear representation from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation , the Trussell Trust and other , I will reduce the level of debt repayment that can be take from a household ' s universal credit payment each month from 25 % to 15 % of their standard allowance . that mean that 1 . 2 million of the poor household will keep more of their award each month , lift child out of poverty , and those who benefit will gain an average of £ 420 a year . our plan to make work pay will also protect work people . I know that Conservative Members be deeply interested in our plan . have see their colleague repeatedly dismiss at short notice , I know that they be worried about their future under the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) . they should rest easy know that our plan will protect work people from unfair dismissal ; it will safeguard they from bully in the workplace ; and it will improve their access to paternity and maternity leave . I hope the new shadow Cabinet will soon be grateful for those increase protection at work . it be right that we protect those who have work all their life . in our manifesto , we promise to transfer the investment reserve fund in the mineworker ' pension scheme to member . I have listen closely to my hon . friend the Members for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) , for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) , for Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney ( Nick Smith ) and for Ayr , Carrick and Cumnock ( Elaine Stewart ) on this issue . today , we be keep our promise , so that work people who power our country receive the fair pension that they be owe . our manifesto commit to the triple lock , mean that spending on the state pension be forecast to rise by over £ 31 billion by 2029 - 30 , to ensure our pensioner be protect in their retirement . that commitment mean that while work - age benefit will be uprate in line with CPI at 1 . 7 % , the basic and new state pension will be uprate by 4 . 1 % in 2025 - 26 . this mean that over 12 million pensioner will gain up to £ 470 next year , up to £ 275 more than uprating by inflation . the pension credit standard minimum guarantee will also rise by 4 . 1 % , from around £ 11 , 400 per year to around £ 11 , 850 a year for a single pensioner . while I have seek to protect work people with measure to reduce the cost of living , I have have to take some very difficult decision on tax . I want to set out my approach to fuel duty . bake into the number that I inherit from the previous Government be an assumption that fuel duty will rise in line with the retail price index next year and that the temporary 5p cut will be reverse . to retain the 5p cut and to freeze fuel duty again would cost over £ 3 billion next year . at a time when the fiscal position be so difficult , I have to be frank with the House that that be a substantial commitment to make . I have conclude that , in these difficult circumstance , while the cost of living remain high and with a backdrop of global uncertainty , increase fuel duty next year would be the wrong choice for work people . it would mean fuel duty rise by 7p per litre , so I have decide today to freeze fuel duty next year , and I will maintain the exist 5p cut for another year , too . there will be no high taxis at the petrol pump next year . the last Government make cut of £ 20 billion to employee ' and self - employ national insurance in their final two Budgets . those tax cut be not honest , because we now know that they be base on a forecast that the OBR say would have be " materially different " have it know the true extent of the last government ' s cover - up . since July , I have be urge on multiple occasion to reconsider those cut — to increase the taxis that work people pay and see in their payslip — but I have make an important choice today : to keep every single commitment that we make on tax in our manifesto . I say to work people , I will not increase your national insurance , I will not increase your vat , and I will not increase your income tax . work people will not see high taxis in their payslip as a result of the choice I be make today . that be a promise make and a promise fulfil . any responsible Chancellor would need to make difficult decision today to raise the revenue require to fund our public service and restore economic stability . so in today ' s Budget , I be announce an increase in employer ' national insurance contribution . we will increase the rate of employer ' national insurance by 1 . 2 percentage point to 15 % from April 2025 , and we will reduce the secondary threshold — the level at which employer start pay national insurance on each employee ' s salary — from £ 9 , 100 a year to £ 5 , 000 . this will raise £ 25 billion per year by the end of the forecast period . I know that this be a difficult choice ; I do not take this decision lightly . we be ask business to contribute more , and I know that there will be impact of this measure feel beyond business , too , as the OBR have set out today . [ interruption . ] order . our constituent be watch — they need to be able to hear the Chancellor . simmer down . in the circumstance I have inherit , it be the right choice to make . successful business depend on successful school , healthy business depend on a healthy nhs , and a strong economy depend on strong public finance . if the conservative party choose to oppose this choice , it be choose more austerity , more chaos and more instability . that be the choice our country face , too . as I make this choice , I know it be particularly important to protect our small company . have hear representation from the Federation of Small Businesses and other , I be today increase the employment allowance from £ 5 , 000 to £ 10 , 500 . this mean that 865 , 000 employer will not pay any national insurance at all next year , and over 1 million will pay the same or less than they do previously . this will allow a small business to employ the equivalent of four full - time worker on the national living wage without pay any national insurance on their wage . let I now come to capital gain tax . we need to drive growth , promote entrepreneurship and support wealth creation while raise the revenue require to fund our public service and restore our public finance . today , we will increase the low rate of capital gain tax from 10 % to 18 % and the high rate from 20 % to 24 % , while maintain the rate of capital gain tax on residential property at 18 % and 24 % . this mean that the UK will still have the low capital gain tax rate of any european G7 economy . alongside these change to the headline rate of capital gain tax , we be maintain the lifetime limit for business asset disposal relief at £ 1 million to encourage entrepreneur to invest in their business . business asset disposal relief will remain at 10 % this year before rise to 14 % in April 2025 and to 18 % from 2026 - 27 , maintain a significant gap compare with the high rate of capital gain tax . together , the OBR say that these measure will raise £ 2 . 5 billion by the end of the forecast . in a sign of this Government ' s commitment to support growth and entrepreneurship , we have already extend the enterprise investment and venture capital trust scheme to 2035 , and we will continue to work with lead entrepreneur and venture capital firm to ensure that our policy support a positive environment for entrepreneurship in the UK . next , I turn to inheritance tax . only 6 % of estate will pay inheritance tax this year . I understand the strongly hold desire to pass down saving to child and grandchild , so I be take a balanced approach in my package today . first , the previous Government freeze inheritance tax threshold until 2028 . I will extend that freeze for a further two year , until 2030 . that mean that the first £ 325 , 000 of any estate can be inherit tax - free , rise to £ 500 , 000 if the estate include a residence pass to direct descendant and £ 1 million when a tax - free allowance be pass to a surviving spouse or civil partner . secondly , we will close the loophole create by the previous Government , make even big when the lifetime allowance be abolish , by bring inherit pension into inheritance tax from April 2027 . finally , we will reform agricultural property relief and business property relief . from April 2026 , the first £ 1 million of combined business and agricultural asset will continue to attract no inheritance tax at all , but for asset over £ 1 million , inheritance tax will apply with a 50 % relief at an effective rate of 20 % . this will ensure that we continue to protect small family farm , with three quarter of claim unaffected by these change . I can also announce that we will apply a 50 % relief in all circumstance on inheritance tax for share on the alternative investment market and other similar market , set the effective rate of tax at 20 % . take together , these measure raise over £ 2 billion by the final year of the forecast . next , I can confirm that the Government will renew the tobacco duty escalator for the remainder of this Parliament at RPI + 2 % , increase duty by a further 10 % on hand - roll tobacco this year , and introduce a flat - rate duty on all vape liquid from October 2026 , alongside an additional one - off increase in tobacco duty to maintain the incentive to give up smoking . we will increase the soft drink industry levy to account for inflation since it be introduce , as well as increase the duty in line with CPI each year go forward . these measure will raise nearly £ 1 billion per year by the end of the forecast period . we want to support the take - up of electric vehicle , so I will maintain the incentive for electric vehicle in company car tax from 2028 and increase the differential between fully electric and other vehicle in the first - year rate of vehicle excise duty from April 2025 . these measure will raise around £ 400 million by the end of the forecast period . let I update the House on our plan for air passenger duty — and I can see the Leader of the Opposition ' s ear have prick up . air passenger duty have not keep up with inflation in recent year , so we be introduce an adjustment , mean an increase of no more than £ 2 for an economy class short - haul flight . but I be take a different approach when it come to private jet , increase the rate of air passenger duty by a further 50 % . that be equivalent to £ 450 per passenger for a private jet to , say , California . [ laughter . ] let we now turn to our high street business . I know that , for they , a major source of concern be business rate . from 2026 - 27 , we intend to introduce two permanently low tax rate for retail , hospitality and leisure property , which make up the backbone of our high street across the country , and it be our intention that it be pay for by a high multipli for the most valuable property . the previous Government create a cliff edge next year , as temporary relief end , so I will today provide 40 % relief on business rate for the retail , hospitality and leisure industry in 2025 - 26 up to a cap of £ 110 , 000 per business . alongside this , the small business tax multipli will be freeze next year . next , I can confirm that alcohol duty rate on non - draught product will increase in line with RPI from February next year . however , nearly two third of alcoholic drink sell in pub be serve on draught , so today , instead of uprate these product in line with inflation , I be cut draught duty by 1 . 7 % — [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] — which mean a penny off the pint in the pub . alongside the change I be make today , I be publish a corporate tax road map , provide the business certainty call for by the CBI , the British Chambers of Commerce and the Institute of Directors . this confirm our commitment to cap the rate of corporation tax at 25 % — the low in the G7 — for the duration of this Parliament , while maintain full expensing and the £ 1 million annual investment allowance , and keep the current rate of research and development relief to drive innovation . in our manifesto , we make a number of commitment to raise funding for our public service . first , I have always say that if you make Britain your home , you should pay your taxis here , too , so today I can confirm that we will abolish the non - dom tax regime , and we will remove the outdated concept of domicile from the tax system from April 2025 . we will introduce a new , residence - base scheme , with internationally competitive arrangement for those come to the UK on a temporary basis , while close the loophole in the scheme design by the conservative party . to far encourage investment into the UK , we will extend the temporary repatriation relief to three year and expand its scope , bring billion of pound of new fund into Britain . the independent Office for Budget Responsibility say that this package of measure will raise £ 12 . 7 billion over the next five year . the fund management industry provide a vital contribution to our economy , but as our manifesto set out , there need to be a fairer approach to the way that carry interest be tax , so we will increase the capital gain rate on carry interest to 32 % from April 2025 , and from April 2026 we will deliver further reform to ensure that the specific rule for carry interest be simple , fair and well target . in our manifesto , we commit to reform stamp duty land tax to raise revenue , while support those buy their first home . we be increase the stamp duty land tax surcharge for second home , know as the high rate for additional dwelling , by 2 percentage point to 5 % , which will come into effect from tomorrow . this will support over 130 , 000 additional transaction from people buy their first home or move home over the next five year . next , we be committed to reform the energy profit levy on oil and gas company . I can confirm today that we will increase the rate of the levy to 38 % . the levy will now expire in March 2030 , and we will remove the 29 % investment allowance . to ensure that the oil and gas industry can protect job and support our energy security , we will maintain the 100 % first - year allowance , and the decarbonisation allowance , too . finally , 94 % of child in the UK attend state school . to provide the high - quality support and teaching that they deserve , we will introduce vat on private school fee from January 2025 , and we will shortly introduce legislation to remove their business rate relief from April 2025 , too . we say in our manifesto that these change , alongside our measure to tackle tax avoidance , would bring in £ 8 . 5 billion in the final year of the forecast . I can confirm today that they will in fact raise over £ 9 billion to support our public service and restore our public finance . that be a promise make and a promise fulfil . I have one final decision to announce on tax today . the previous Government freeze income tax and national insurance threshold in 2021 , and then do so again after the mini - Budget . extend their threshold freeze for a further two year raise billion of pound — money to deal with the black hole in our public finance and repair our public service . have consider the issue closely , I have come to the conclusion that extend the threshold freeze would hurt work people . it would take more money out of their payslip . I be keep every single promise on tax that I make in our manifesto , so there will be no extension of the freeze in income tax and national insurance threshold beyond the decision make by the previous Government . from 2028 - 29 , personal tax threshold will be uprate in line with inflation once again . when it come to choice on tax , this Government choose to protect work people every single time . those be the choice I have make to restore economic stability and protect work people . my next choice be to begin to repair our public service . in recent month , we conduct the first phase of the spending review to set departmental budget for 2024 - 25 and 2025 - 26 . I thank my right hon . friend the Chief Secretary to the Treasury for his tireless work with colleague from across Government . because I have take difficult decision on tax today , I be able to provide an injection of immediate funding over the next two year to stabilise and support our public service . the next phase of the spending review will report in late spring , and I have set out the overall envelope today . day - to - day spending from 2024 - 25 onwards will grow by 1 . 5 % in real term , and today departmental spending , include capital spending , will grow by 1 . 7 % in real term . at the election , we promise that there would be no return to austerity , and today we deliver on that promise , but give the scale of the challenge that we face in our public service , there will still be difficult choice in the next phase of the spending review . just as we can not tax and spend our way to prosperity , neither can we simply spend our way to well public service . we will deliver a new approach to public service reform , use technology to improve public service and take a zero - base approach , so that taxpayer ' money be spend as effectively as possible , and so that we focus on deliver our key priority . in the first phase of the spending review , I have prioritise day - to - day funding to deliver on our manifesto commitment . I want every child to have the very good start in life , and the good possible start to their school day . I know that my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education share my ambition , so today I be triple investment in breakfast club to fund they in thousand of school . I be increase the core school budget by £ 2 . 3 billion next year to support our pledge to hire thousand more teacher in key subject . so that our young people can develop the skill that they need for the future , I be provide an additional £ 300 million for further education . finally , this Government be commit to reform special educational need provision , to improve outcome for our most vulnerable child and ensure that the system be financially sustainable . to support that work , I be today provide a £ 1 billion uplift in funding — a 6 % real - term increase from this year . there be no more important job for Government than keep our country safe , and we be conduct a strategic defence review , to be publish next year . as set out in our manifesto , we will set a path to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence at a future fiscal event . today , I be announce a total increase in the Ministry of Defence ' s budget of £ 2 . 9 billion next year , ensure that the UK comfortably exceed our NATO commitment , and provide guarantee military support to Ukraine of £ 3 billion per year for as long as it take . last week , alongside my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary , I announce , in addition to that , further support for Ukraine , on top of our NATO commitment . that support come through our £ 2 . 26 billion contribution to the G7 ' s extraordinary revenue acceleration agreement . that will be repay use profit from immobilised russian sovereign asset . as we approach Remembrance Sunday , it be vital that we take time to remember those who have serve our country so bravely . I be today announce funding to commemorate the 80th anniversary of VE and VJ Day next year , to honour those who serve at home and abroad . we must also remember those who experience the atrocity of the Nazi regime at first hand . I would like to pay tribute to Lily Ebert , the Holocaust survivor and educator who pass away aged 100 early this month . I be today commit a furth £ 2 million for Holocaust education next year , so that charity such as the Holocaust Educational Trust can continue their work to ensure that those vital testimony be not lose , and be preserve for the future . to repair our public service , we need to work alongside our mayor and local leader . we will deliver a significant , real - term funding increase for local government next year , include £ 1 . 3 billion of additional grant funding to deliver essential service , with at least £ 600 million in grant funding for social care and £ 230 million to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping . we be today confirm that Greater Manchester and the West Midlands will be the first mayoral authority to receive integrate settlement from next year , give mayor meaningful control of funding for their local area . to support our high street , we be take action to deal with the sharp rise in shoplifting that we have see in recent year . we will scrap the effective immunity for low - value shoplifting introduce by the Conservative party , and have listen closely to organisation such as the British Retail Consortium and the trade union USDAW , I be provide additional funding to crack down on the organise gang that target retailer , and to provide more training for our police officer and retailer , in order to stop shoplift in its track . finally , I be today provide funding to support public service and drive growth across Scotland , Wales , and Northern Ireland . have discuss the matter with the First Minister of Wales , Eluned Morgan , my hon . friend the Under - Secretary of State for Wales ( Dame Nia Griffith ) , and my hon . friend the Under - Secretary of State for Justice ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , I be today provide £ 25 million to the Welsh Government next year for the maintenance of coal tip , to ensure that we keep our community safe . to support growth , include in our rural area , we will proceed with city and growth deal in Northern Ireland , in Causeway Coast and Glens , and the Mid South West . we will drive growth in Scotland , which be a key priority for Scottish Labour and our leader , Anas Sarwar , include through a city and growth deal in Argyll and Bute . this Budget provide the devolved government with the large real - term fund settlement since devolution , deliver an additional £ 3 . 4 billion to the Scottish Government through the Barnett formula — funding that must now be use effectively in Scotland to deliver the public service that the people of Scotland deserve . this Budget also provide £ 1 . 7 billion to the Welsh Government , and £ 1 . 5 billion to the Northern Ireland Executive in 2025 - 26 . I say there would be no return to austerity ; that be the choice I have make today . to rebuild our country , we need to increase investment . the UK lag behind every other G7 country when it come to business investment as a share of our economy . that matter . it mean that the UK have fall behind in the race for new job , new industry , and new technology . by restore economic stability , and by establish the national wealth fund to catalyse private funding , we have begin to create the condition that business need to invest , but there be also a significant role for public investment . for too long , we have see Conservative Chancellors cut investment and raid capital budget to plug gap in day - to - day spending . the result be clear for all to see : hospital without the equipment they need ; school building not fit for our child ; a desperate lack of affordable housing ; and economic growth hold back at every turn . under the plan I inherit , public investment be set to fall from 2 . 5 % to 1 . 7 % of gdp , but in Washington last week , the International Monetary Fund be clear : more public investment be badly need in the UK . have listen to the case make by the former Governor of the Bank of England , Mark Carney , the former Treasury Minister , Jim O ' Neill and the former Cabinet Secretary , Gus o ' Donnell , among other , I be confirm our investment rule . as be set out in our manifesto , we will target debt fall as a share of the economy . debt will be define as public sector net financial liability — or net financial debt , for short . that metric have be measure by the Office for National Statistics since 2016 and forecast by the Office for Budget Responsibility since that date , too . net financial debt recognise that government investment deliver return for taxpayer by count not just the liability on a Government ' s balance sheet , but the financial asset , too . that mean we count the benefit of that investment , not just the cost , and we free up our institution to invest , just as they do in Germany , France and Japan . like our stability rule , our investment rule will apply in 2029 - 30 , until that become the third year of the forecast . from that point onwards , net financial debt will fall in the third year of every forecast . today , the OBR say that we be already meet our target two year early , with net financial debt fall by 2027 - 28 and £ 15 . 7 billion of headroom in the final year . so that we drive the right incentive in Government investment , we will introduce four key guardrail to ensure capital spending be good value for money and drive growth in our economy . first , our portfolio of new financial investment will be deliver by expert body , such as the national wealth fund , and must by default earn a rate of return at least as large as that on gilt . secondly , we will strengthen the role of institution to improve infrastructure delivery . thirdly , we will improve certainty , set capital budget for five year and extend they at spending review every two year . finally , we will ensure great transparency for capital spending , with robust annual reporting of financial investment base on account audit by the National Audit Office and make available to the Office for Budget Responsibility at every forecast . take together with our stability rule , these fiscal rule will ensure that our public finance be on a firm footing , while enable we to invest prudently alongside business . the capital plan I now set out to drive growth across our country and repair the fabric of our nation be possible only because of our investment rule . let I set out those investment plan . today , we be confirm our plan to capitalise the national wealth fund to invest in the industry of the future , from gigafactorie to port to green hydrogen . build on those investment , my right hon . friend the Business Secretary be drive forward our modern industrial strategy , work with business and organisation such as make UK to set out the sector with the big growth potential . today , we be confirm multi - year funding commitment for these area of our economy , include nearly £ 1 billion for the aerospace sector to fund vital research and development , build on our industry in the east midland , the south - west and Scotland ; more than £ 2 billion for the automotive sector to support our electric vehicle industry and develop our manufacturing base , build on our strength in the north - east and the west midland ; and up to £ 520 million for a new life science innovative manufacturing fund . for our world - lead creative industry , we will legislate to provide additional tax relief for visual effect cost in tv and film , and we be provide £ 25 million for the North East combine authority , which it plan to use to remediate the Crown Works Studios site in Sunderland , create 8 , 000 new job . to unlock these growth industry of the future , we will protect Government investment in research and development , with more than £ 20 billion - worth of funding . this include at least £ 6 . 1 billion to protect core research funding for area such as engineering , biotechnology and medical science through Research England , other research council and the national academy . we will extend the innovation accelerator programme in Glasgow , Manchester and the west midland . with more than £ 500 million of funding next year , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology will continue to drive progress in improve reliable , fast broadband and mobile coverage across our country , include in rural area . we commit in our manifesto to build 1 . 5 million home over the course of this Parliament , and my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister be drive that work forward across government . today , I be provide more than £ 5 billion of Government investment to deliver our plan on housing next year . we will increase the affordable home programme to £ 3 . 1 billion , deliver thousand of new home . we will provide £ 3 billion - worth of support in guarantee to boost the supply of home and support our small house builder . we will provide investment to renovate site across our country , include at Liverpool Central Docks , where we will deliver 2 , 000 new home , and funding to help Cambridge realise its full growth potential . alongside this investment , we will put the right policy in place to increase the supply of affordable housing . have hear representation from local authority , social housing provider and Shelter , I can today confirm that the Government will reduce right - to - buy discount and that local authority will be able to retain the full receipt from any sale of social housing , so that we can reinvest they back into housing stock and into new supply . by do that , we will give more people a safe , secure and affordable place to live . we will provide stability to social housing provider with a social housing rent settlement of CPI plus 1 % for the next five year , and we will deliver on our manifesto commitment to hire hundred of new planning officer to get Britain build again . we will also make progress on our commitment to accelerate the remediation of home , follow the finding of the Grenfell inquiry , with £ 1 billion of investment to remove dangerous cladding next year . the last Government make a number of promise on transport , but fail to fund they . work with my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary , I be change that . we be today secure the delivery of the trans - Pennine upgrade to connect York , Leeds , Huddersfield and Manchester , deliver fully electric local and regional service between Manchester and Stalybridge by the end of this year , with a further electrification of service between Church Fenton and York by 2026 , to help grow our economy across the north of England with fast and more reliable service . we will deliver East West Rail to drive growth between Oxford , Milton Keynes and Cambridge , with the first service run between Oxford , Bletchley and Milton Keynes next year , and train between Oxford and Bedford run from 2030 . we be deliver railway scheme that improve journey for people across our country , include upgrade at Bradford Forster Square station , improve capacity at Manchester Victoria and electrify the Wigan to Bolton line . my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary have also set out a plan for how to get a grip of hs2 . today , we be secure delivery of the project between Old Oak Common and Birmingham , and we be commit the funding require to begin tunnel work to London Euston station . that will catalyse private investment into the local area , deliver job and growth . I be also fund significant improvement to our road network . for too long , pothole have be an all - too - visible reminder of our failure to invest as a nation . today that change , with a £ 500 million increase in road maintenance budget next year — more than deliver on our manifesto commitment to fix an additional 1 million pothole each year . we will provide over £ 650 million of local transport funding to improve connection across our country , in town such as Crewe and Grimsby and in our village and rural area from Cornwall to Cumbria . while the previous Government ' s policy be for the bus fare cap to end this December , we understand how important bus service be for our community , so we will extend the cap for a further year , set it at £ 3 until December 2025 . finally , we will deliver £ 1 . 3 billion of funding to improve connectivity in our city region , funding project such as the Brierley Hill metro extension in the west midland , the renewal of the Sheffield Supertram , and West Yorkshire mass transit , include in Bradford and Leeds . to bring new job to Britain and drive growth across our country , we be deliver our mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower , lead by my right hon . friend the Energy Secretary . early this month , we announce a significant multi - year investment between Government and business in carbon capture and storage , create 4 , 000 job across Merseyside and Teesside . today , I be provide funding for 11 new green hydrogen project across England , Scotland and Wales — they will be among the first commercial - scale project anywhere in the world — include in Bridgend , East Renfrewshire and Barrow - in - furness . we be kick - start the warm home plan by confirm an initial £ 3 . 4 billion over the next three year to transform 350 , 000 home , include a quarter of a million low - income and social home , and we will establish GB Energy , provide funding next year to set it up at its new home in Aberdeen . overall , we will invest an additional £ 100 billion over the next five year in capital spending — that be possible only because of our investment rule . the OBR say today that this investment will drive growth across our country in the next five year and , in the long term , increase GDP by up to 1 . 4 % . it will crowd in private investment , mean more job and more opportunity in every corner of the UK . that be the choice that I have make : to invest in our country and to grow our economy . today , I be set out two final area in which investment be so badly need to repair the fabric of our nation . my hon . friend the Member for Lewisham West and East Dulwich ( Ellie Reeves ) and I join the Labour party because of the condition of our school in the 1980 and 1990 under conservative government . when we be at secondary school , my sixth form be a couple of prefab hut in the playground . my school , like so many other , be rebuild by the last Labour Government , but after 14 year of Tory government , progress have go backwards : school roof be crumble and million of child be face the same backdrop as I do . I will be the Chancellor who change that . today , I be provide £ 6 . 7 billion of capital investment to the Department for Education next year — a 19 % real - term increase on this year . that include £ 1 . 4 billion to rebuild over 500 school in the great need , include St Helen ' s primary school in Hartlepool , Mercia academy in Derby and so many more across our country . we will provide £ 2 . 1 billion more to improve school maintenance — £ 300 million more than this year — ensure that all our child can learn somewhere safe . that will include deal with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete - affect school in the constituency of my hon . friend the Members for Watford ( Matt Turmaine ) , for stourbridge ( Cat Eccles ) and for Hyndburn ( Sarah Smith ) and beyond , alongside investment in new teacher and funding for thousand of new breakfast club . this Government be give our child and young people the opportunity that they deserve . I come to our most cherish public service of all : our NHS . my right hon . friend the Health Secretary be begin to repair the damage of the last 14 year . in our first week in office , he commission an independent report into the state of our health service by Lord Darzi . its conclusion be damn . while our NHS staff do a remarkable job , and we thank they for it , it be clear that in so many area we be move in the wrong direction . a hundred thousand infant wait over six hour in A & E last year . three hundred and fifty thousand people be wait a year for mental health support . cancer death here be high than in other country . it be simply unforgiveable . in the spring , we will publish a 10 - year plan for the NHS to deliver a shift from hospital to community , from analogue to digital and from sickness to prevention . today , we be announce a down payment on that plan to enable the NHS to deliver 2 % productivity growth next year . these reform be vital , but we should be honest : the state of the nhs that we inherit after — I quote Lord Darzi — " the most austere decade since the NHS be found " mean that reform must come alongside investment . so today , because of the difficult decision that I have take on tax , welfare and spending , I can announce that I be provide a £ 22 . 6 billion increase in the day - to - day health budget and a £ 3 . 1 billion increase in the capital budget over this year and next . this be the large real - term growth in day - to - day nhs spending outside of covid since 2010 . let I set out what this funding be deliver . many NHS building have be leave in a state of disrepair , so we will provide £ 1 billion of health capital investment next year to address the backlog of repair and upgrade across our NHS . to increase capacity for ten of thousand more procedure next year , we will provide a furth £ 1 . 5 billion for new bed in hospital across our country , new capacity for over a million additional diagnostic test , and new surgical hub and diagnostic centre so that people wait for their treatment can get it as quickly as possible . my right hon . friend the Health Secretary will be set out further detail of his review into the new hospital programme in the come week and publish in the new year , but I can tell the House today that work will continue at pace to deliver those seven hospital affect by the RAAC crisis , include West Suffolk hospital in Bury St Edmunds and Leighton hospital in Crewe . and finally , because of this record injection of funding , the thousand of additional bed that we have secure and the reform that we be deliver in our NHS , we can now begin to bring waiting list down more quickly and move towards our target for wait time to be no long than 18 week by deliver on our manifesto commitment for 40 , 000 extra hospital appointment a week . that be the difference that this Labour Government be make . the choice I have make today be the right choice for our country — to restore stability to our public finance , to protect work people , to fix our NHS and to rebuild Britain . that do not mean these choice be easy , but they be responsible . if the Conservatives disagree with the choice that I have make , they must answer : what choice would they make ? would they again choose the path of irresponsibility — the path take by Liz Truss — and ignore the problem in our public finance all together ? if that be their choice , they should say so . but let I be clear : if they disagree with my choice on tax , they would not be able to protect work people . if they disagree with our plan to fund public service , they would have to cut school and hospital . if they disagree with our investment rule , they would have to delay or cancel thousand of project that drive growth across our country . this be a moment of fundamental choice for Britain . I have make my choice — the responsible choice — to restore stability to our country and to protect work people . More teacher in our school , more appointment in our NHS , more home be build , fix the foundation of our economy , invest in our future , deliver change and rebuild Britain . we on the government Benches commend those choice , and I commend this statement to the House . Provisional Collection of Taxes Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 51 ( 2 ) ) , that , pursuant to section 5 of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 , provisional statutory effect shall be give to the follow motion : — ( a ) value add tax ( private school fee ) ( motion no . 34 ) ; ( b ) stamp duty land tax ( additional dwelling : purchase before 1 April 2025 ) ( motion no . 35 ) ; ( c ) stamp duty land tax ( purchase by company ) ( motion no . 37 ) ; ( d ) rate of tobacco product duty ( motion no . 46 ) . — ( Rachel Reeves . ) question agree to . we come now to the motion entitle " Income Tax ( charge ) " . it be on this motion that the debate will take place today and on the succeed day . the question on this motion and the remain motion will be put at the end of the Budget debate on Wednesday 6 November . Budget Resolutions Income Tax ( Charge ) Motion make , and question propose , that income tax be charge for the tax year 2025 - 26 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . — ( Rachel Reeves . ) I call the Leader of the Opposition . on the day that the Prime Minister take office , he say that he want to restore trust to british politic with action , not word . today , his action speak for themselves , with a Budget that contain broken promise after broken promise and reveal the simple truth that the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have not be straight with the british people . time and again , we Conservatives warn that a Labour Government would tax , borrow and spend far beyond what they be tell the country , and time and again they deny they have such plan . today , the truth have come out — proof that Labour plan to do this all along . today ' s Budget see the fiscal rule fiddle , borrowing increase by billion of pound , inflation - bust handout for the trade union — [ interruption . ] order . just as we respect the Chancellor and hear she speak , we will hear the Leader of the Opposition . Britain ' s poor pensioner squeeze , welfare spending out of control and a spree of tax rise that the Government promise the work people of this country they would not do . national insurance — up . capital gain tax — up . inheritance tax — up . energy taxis — up . business rate — up . first time buyer ' s stamp duty — up . pension tax — up . they have fiddle the figure . [ interruption . ] order . the public will also want to hear what the Leader of the Opposition have to say . those who I see shouting will not be call to speak later on . Simmer . Labour member do not like it , but this be the truth : they have fiddle the figure and raise tax to record level . they have break their promise , and it be the work people of this country who will pay the price . the Chancellor and Prime Minister have try to say that they have no choice , but let we be in no doubt : their misleading claim about the state of the economy be nothing but a cynical political device . today ' s situation be a world away from the genuinely bleak legacy that we conservative inherit from the last Labour Government . the Chancellor forget to point out that borrowing be £ 1 in every £ 4 that they spend , with debt rise every year and unemployment at 8 % . I understand the Chancellor ' s shameless political motivation and why it suit she to cook up a false justification for her agenda , but today , the OBR have decline to back up her claim of a fictional £ 22 billion black hole . it appear nowhere in its report . it be deeply disappointing that she have seek to politicise the independent OBR , which should be above party politic . as the Chancellor now know , her playing politic have do real damage to our economy . she talk about be a Bank of England economist , but the Bank of England ' s former chief economist have say that Labour ' s approach have generate fear , foreboding and uncertainty among consumer , business and investor . the rhetoric of this Chancellor and this Prime Minister be damage the british economy for political purpose . we need only to look at the fact to see that the Chancellor ' s claim about her economic inheritance be nonsense . Labour inherit an economy with inflation back at its 2 % target , mortgage rate cut and unemployment low . when we leave office , the United Kingdom be the fast grow advanced economy in the world . when it come to the public finance , not once have the Chancellor acknowledge that we take the right decision to spend half a trillion pound to protect the british people from the impact of covid and Putin ' s war . let I remind the House that not only do the Labour party support all those intervention , it want we to go even far . when I make the tough choice to fix the public finance afterwards , the Prime Minister and Chancellor opportunistically oppose I every step of the way , so I will take no lecture from those two about difficult decision . but because of the decision we make , the Chancellor inherit low borrowing than France , America , Italy and Japan , and the second - low debt in the entire g7 . any which way you look at it , Labour ' s claim about its inheritance be purely ludicrous . these be her choice , so stop blame everyone else and take responsibility for they . [ interruption . ] let I turn to the substance of those choice . during the election , the Chancellor repeatedly promise that her plan be fully fund . only a few week ago , the Prime Minister say the Budget would " balance the book " , but this Budget do no such thing and reveal that they have not be straight with the british people . [ interruption . ] order . I can see you even when you be hide behind another colleague . yell across the Chamber be not on . the public — our constituent — be watch . I know emotion be high and I expect some noise , but I will definitely call you out . today , the Chancellor have launch an enormous borrowing spree , saddle our child and grandchild with billion upon billion of pound of more debt , push up interest rate , leave our economy more expose to future shock and lead the OBR today to now forecast high inflation in every year of the forecast . her decision to let borrowing rip make a total nonsense of her claim on the state of the public finance . if they truly be in such a dire state , as she have say , what we should have see today be a significant reduction in borrow to repair they , not the splurge she have just unleash . instead , what we see be borrow high in every year of the forecast and debt high in every year of the forecast . now , the Chancellor have try to cover up that splurge by fiddle the fiscal rule . accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies , the new measure will not actually even be a constraint on the amount she can borrow . it say it be : " hard to escape the suspicion " that the Government be attract to this change " by the fact that it would allow for significantly more borrowing … without any need for tough choice elsewhere . " " fiscal fiddling " be what it have call it . the Chancellor herself actually agree . she specifically tell the british people she would not change the debt target . she say she be " not go to fiddle the figure " to get well result , but that be exactly what she have do . she have go back on her word and fiddle the figure so she can borrow billion more — break promise after broken promise , and work people will pay the price . the reason the Chancellor have increase borrowing and increase taxis be because she have totally fail to grip public spending . first , she have no meaningful plan to deliver the £ 20 billion - worth of saving available if the public sector simply return to its pre - pandemic level of productivity . instead , one of the first thing the Chancellor do be to hand out inflation - bust pay rise to the union without get any productivity - enhance reform in return . the Chancellor also scrap her predecessor ' s plan to get the civil service back to its pre - pandemic number . she do not seem to think that the civil service can be reduce by a single person . and the Chancellor have no plan to control welfare spending . yet if we simply get work age welfare spending on people with a disability or health condition back to pre - covid level , that would free up £ 30 billion - worth of saving . whether it be scrap our plan to shrink the civil service or their failure to control welfare spending , this be not her inheritance , these be her choice . the result : high spending , high borrowing , high taxis . it be break promise after broken promise , and work people pay the price . let I turn next to growth , and remind the Prime Minister and Chancellor that they do , in fact , inherit the fast - grow economy in the G7 . that be testament to the last Government boost investment by introduce full expensing , increase the labour supply by expand childcare , reform welfare and cut tax on work — all decision the OBR say would increase growth . the Chancellor have say that grow the economy be the Government ' s no . 1 priority . the Prime Minister even say that high growth would come " very quickly " . to be fair , the Prime Minister and Chancellor have have a rapid impact on growth . as their plan for the economy become clear , survey after survey show business confidence plummet . no wonder the Government ' s own assessment say their french - style labour law will impose a £ 5 billion — [ interruption . ] Labour member will be explain it to the business in their constituency that their labour law , by their own assessment , will impose a £ 5 billion direct cost on business , disproportionately hit small business . as business group after business group have point out , the tax rise on job and enterprise in today ' s Budget will " hobble growth " — a " poll tax on business " be what they have call it . despite the record - break tax rise , despite fiddle the figure and despite let borrowing soar , today the OBR have forecast that growth will be low under this government than it be forecast to be under the Conservatives . that be the change they have work . this be what happen when the Labour party be lead by people who have no experience of business and enterprise : relentlessly talk down our economy , deliver a tidal wave of anti - business regulation , destroy our flexible labour market and raise taxis to the high level in our country ' s history . it be the classic Labour agenda : high taxis , high borrowing , no plan for growth , and work people pay the price . during the election campaign , the Prime Minister specifically say there would be no tax surprise under Labour . the Chancellor go even far , say she want to bring taxis down . each time they make those promise , we warn that they be not tell the truth . today , the Chancellor and Prime Minister have do what they be always plan to do , but choose to keep hide from the british people . far from reduce taxis , as a result of today ' s Budget never in the history of our country have taxis be high than they be under this Labour Government . they specifically promise that they would not raise tax on work people . the Chancellor say : " Labour will not put up your income tax , national insurance or vat . " just this month , the Prime Minister give an " absolute commitment " to not raise tax on work people . what do today ' s Budget do ? it raise tax on work people by increase national insurance and break labour ' s promise . as the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies have say , this be a straightforward breach of Labour ' s manifesto , because , as the Office for Budget Responsibility have make clear , this tax rise be " pass through entirely " to work people . even since the Chancellor start speak , the IFS have already confirm that the vast majority of this tax increase will hit work people through low pay . however , we do not need to take it from the IFS or even the OBR ; we can take it from the Chancellor herself . she have previously describe her tax rise as a " job tax " which " take money out of people ' s pocket " . — [ Official Report , 19 October 2021 ; Vol . 701 , c . 675 . ] and not only that — the Chancellor also say that the problem with national insurance " be that it be a tax purely on people who go to work and those who employ they " . far from protect work people , she be literally raise the only major tax that exclusively hit work people . but it do not stop there . business on the british high street : your taxis be go up . business invest in british energy : your taxis be go up . the small business owner look to reap the reward of year spend grow a business and create job : your taxis be go up . the young couple save to buy their first home : your taxis be go up . the family — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Streeting , you promise I this morning . let we try and keep our promise . I be sure that those on the Government Front Bench be want to explain to the young couple in their constituency save to buy their first home that their taxis be go up , and to the family want to pass on their farm or their business to their child that their taxis be go up . the parent sacrifice to give their kid the good start in life : your taxis be go up . they be tax your job , they be tax your business , they be tax your home , they be tax your saving . I say during the election campaign : " you name it , Labour will tax it " , and that be exactly what the Government have do , with broken promise after broken promise and work people pay the price . for the final time from this Dispatch Box , let I deliver some basic truth . a Government can foster growth , but they can not magically conjure it up . we need business , worker , investor and entrepreneur to all back this country and build our economy . it do not matter whether your income come in a pay packet , from investment , in dividend or in profit . it be a poor politic that be so focused on what people receive that it fail to see that what matter be what people put in . the only way to grow the economy and to create wealth be for people to put in more , so when you create a negative environment for business , when you undermine confidence in our country , when you vilify and penalise people for do exactly what we need they to do , which be to invest , take risk and work hard , you do not create growth ; you hold back growth — and more than that , the promise of growth tomorrow do not pay the bill today . this be not the first Government to peddle the " borrow to grow " myth , but time and again we have see the same ending : not high growth , but high debt , high inflation , and high taxis . but , Madam Deputy Speaker , whatever you think about the economic argument surround today ' s Budget , there be a more fundamental point with which I want to conclude . the Prime Minister have talk relentlessly about trust , yet today ' s budget reveal above all that those in the Labour party do not tell the truth . they say they would not fiddle the figure ; they have . they say they would not increase borrowing ; they have . they say they would not raise taxis on work people ; they have . there have be break promise after broken promise , and it be the work people of this country who will pay the price . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it have well be a genuine , relevant point of order . I wonder if you could give I some advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I fear that the Chancellor may have inadvertently fail to declare an interest . she speak a great deal about work people during her speech . be she a work person , and should she declare that ? or maybe she isn ' t . that be not a relevant point of order , and it will be note in case the hon . Gentleman wish to put forward any further point of order . I now call the Chair of the Treasury Committee . before I begin , I must — as well as draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests — draw its attention to the fact that I have a family member who work for Allied Irish Bank . I have be look forward to today . I feel honoured to have be choose by this House , on a cross - party basis , to chair the Treasury Committee , and to be the first Labour Treasury Committee Chair to welcome the Budget of a Labour Government and our first female Labour Chancellor . I think that , after a 14 - year wait , this would be an exciting moment ; and in a moment of sentimentality , realise that for the second time today I would be follow the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , I be go to reflect on an interesting constitutional position . when I be in my former role as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , there be common ground at time with the Prime Minister of the day . in private , when I have cause to meet the right hon . Gentleman , he be courteous , thoughtful and respectful , have the national interest at heart , and , when it come to constitutional matter , be in very much the same place as I . I be therefore very disappointed today by the cheek of the right hon . Gentleman in stand up and have the chutzpah to talk about fear , foreboding and uncertainty . it be the 2022 mini - Budget that plunge the country into crisis , put up the mortgage rate of our constituent , and be still leave people live in great hardship . it be on the right hon . Gentleman ' s watch as Chancellor — although he do some thing about covid that we would all recognise need to be do , and we recognise it at the time — that the bounce back loan lead to a significant amount of the fraud that result from covid . now my right hon . friend the Chancellor have stand up , and what have happen ? the FTSE be up — and it have go up by more since I stand up , by 1 . 6 percentage point , unless anyone can update I — and the OBR have say that this will add growth to the economy . the right hon . Gentleman also attack the Chancellor on fiscal rule . let we be clear : fiscal rule be not a new thing . since 2011 there have be seven fiscal mandate , five supplementary debt target , two supplementary borrowing target , and an investment limit . the rule set in 2011 last three year , but in the last three year we have have three different fiscal mandate , two different supplementary debt cap , and one supplementary borrowing target . I think the Chancellor know that when she be in front of the Treasury Committee we may challenge she and ask she about her fiscal rule , but I have certainty — we all have certainty — that she will be in her post for long enough to stick to the fiscal rule that she have set . they will have a longevity beyond the previous Government . I welcome this Budget , and pay tribute to my right hon . friend . the UK ' s first woman Chancellor stand at that Dispatch Box , and another glass ceiling be shatter . she should be proud ; we be proud , and I congratulate she on that achievement . it be my first Budget as Chair of the Treasury Committee . I have spend 13 year examine public spending in enormous detail , include nine year as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . like I , the Chancellor be a scrutineer : she chair the Business and Trade Committee , and she understand the importance of scrutiny . I be very clear that the Treasury Committee will not give the Chancellor an easy ride , because she be a highly capable woman who can come and explain all her decision to we . she know that it be our job to rigorously examine the detail of the Budget next Wednesday , when she will appear in front we . she will be get a bit of what she dish out as Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . I know that she will expect nothing less than robust challenge — if she be not up to it , she would not be in her post . I have to say that I be disappointed that so much of this Budget be reveal before today , which be not normal practice . go forward , I hope that constituent and the mps represent they will be the first to know about major issue , and that courtesy to this House and the Treasury Committee will be a hallmark of Treasury engagement . this Budget come at a very exciting time , but it be a difficult one for the Chancellor . she have make it very clear that she will deliver certainty , and she have inherit one hell of a mess . we have have a tumultuous period : Brexit , the pandemic , the mini - Budget , 14 year of austerity , delay and fail decision , particularly on capital spending — we have have three carbon capture and storage project that have never come to fruition — the saga and cost of stop - and - start on High Speed 2 , 700 , 000 pupil in school that be not fit for purpose , public service on their knee , and public sector net debt at its high rate since the second world war . I congratulate the hon . Lady on her unopposed election as Chair of the wonderful Treasury Committee . do she share my concern that the individual who have be appoint to the office for value for money be previously on the board of HS2 ? the hon . Lady be a former Chair of the Treasury Committee and I welcome she be a member of it , as she will add great value . as she know , we will have the opportunity to raise question with the Chancellor at next week ' s hear . she have now be forewarn that the hon . Lady may ask about this issue . it be important that we recognise good people who provide support in the public sector by watch our public finance , and I always take people on good faith unless I have a reason not to do so . we have an opportunity to explore this issue elsewhere . as a share of gdp , taxis be high than at any time since world war two . before the election , my right hon . friend the Chancellor be tough on spending commitment , and sometimes there be a bit of moaning in the Tea Room . I do not want to tell tale out of school , but shadow Ministers be dismay because they could not spend everything that they want to spend . as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee at the time , however , I know what she be talk about and that what be come be not go to be pretty , so I welcome some of the step that she have announce today . I have not have a chance to look in the Red Book or at the detail , but the multi - year funding settlement that she have put in place be a great opportunity to give certainty to business and investor in our country . hopefully , we will finally nail the issue of HS2 , which have cost the taxpayer a fortune . we need to get on with that in order to make sure that we be deliver investment for our country . I look forward to see the detail on cladding , but it be a big issue in my constituency , where many people ' s life be on hold as a result . the money for affordable home be incredibly vital for those live in difficult situation , and the Chancellor be absolutely right to have finally fund the compensation scheme for infected - blood victim and for postmaster and postmistress . when the state make an error , the state need to correct it . it should never be a party political football . the Chancellor have have to make tough choice , and she have set out her fiscal rule to provide clarity to the market and a long - term trajectory for investment and growth . we on the Treasury Committee will watch net financial debt closely to see how the benefit be measure , and it be important for taxpayer and the market that we do so . she will be more aware than anyone about the impact on the market if she do not manage debt very carefully . international investor may use the exist debt model , so when she come in front of the Treasury Committee , I would be interested in talk to she about how she see this play out in the international arena . I have enormous respect for the hon . Lady , give she previous role and her important new role as Chair of the Treasury Committee . as the Chancellor will be come to see the Committee shortly , could the hon . Lady put a question to she on my behalf . we all know that we can learn lesson from previous Budgets about the law of unintended consequence . the thing that most concern I in this Budget be the combination of raise employer ' national insurance contribution , cut the threshold at which they start pay NI , and raise the minimum wage . could the hon . Lady ask the Chancellor whether there will be special support for business that employ a lot of people on low wage , such as care home and childcare setting , which will be most impact by the measure ? otherwise , the cost will be pass on . the hon . Lady be a very experienced Member of this House , and she have make her point . she will no doubt have the opportunity to speak in this Budget debate , and there will be plenty of opportunity across the Committee corridor . I welcome she as a fellow Chair . committee Chairs be already plan how we will work together to ensure that we hold the Government to account , whichever party we represent . the fiscal rule be design to provide fiscal certainty and predictability , to bring a sense of discipline to the public finance , and to reassure the market , as I have mention . I welcome that stability , as will the market , as the FTSE increase suggest . give the headroom that the Chancellor have secure under the new rule , the Treasury Committee will be watch how much she invest , because we need to see the growth that she have set out as her goal . that must be sustainable , so it need to be productivity growth . there be no single solution , but analysis by the Resolution Foundation find that a 1 % increase in capital stock increase productivity by 0 . 4 % . we will look closely at this , and at the spending review in 2025 . on tax , the increase in employer ' national insurance to 15 % be an understandable measure . it be always challenge to find money in these difficult fiscal circumstance , but the increase bring money into the Exchequer at a fast pace than some of the other measure that be mention in the medium . I have a wide approach to read about thing . if we read the Daily Telegraph , we will think the world be go to hell in a handcart , but if we read more measured commentary , we will find that the Chancellor be judge well on what she have achieve today . as the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) say , there be concern about how the measure in the Budget interact . alongside sister Committees , we on the Treasury Committee will examine those . will the hon . Lady and the Treasury Committee look very carefully at the Chancellor ' s proposal on agricultural property relief ? they be very likely to do damage to small , family - own farm , and especially to tenant , who be likely to be evict as a consequence . will she look at what that might do — not just for basic justice , but for food security in this country ? if I be the sort of person to get big - headed as a result of the number of member ask I to do thing that be probably not within my remit , I could extend the remit and the power of the Treasury Committee infinitely . of course , it be the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) who chair the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . as I say , we Chairs be plan to ensure that we work closely together on issue where there be an overlap of interest , and we will pick up on all these issue . the Government have promise openness , transparency and accountability , and I take my Front Benchers at their word on that . I be sure that the Chancellor and her Ministers will be available to talk to people and address Members ' concern about specific element of the Budget . I welcome some of the other measure that have be announce . the increase in the national living wage will make a huge difference for so many of my constituent . they work hard and be certainly not shirker , as some conservative Members might call they , but they can barely make end meet . in my constituency , many people work four day a week because they earn enough to be able to do so . other have four job over seven day , just to hold body and soul together . I welcome the increase and the removal of age discrimination . the devolution model make so much sense in so many way . on the Public Accounts Committee , we repeatedly look at the challenge of bidding for pot of fund , which be costly and time - consume . we need to trust our elect Mayors to make decision for their area , and the model show the direction of trust that , hopefully , this Government will continue to go down . before the last general election , I list what I call the big nastie . this be just some of the additional spending that need to take place on thing that have be leave , sometimes by the previous Government and , sadly , sometimes by successive government . these issue include the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete failure in school — I welcome the move finally to deal with that — the long waiting list in the NHS and overcrowded prison . from the Red Book , it look as though the Justice Department have have an uplift , although it be difficult to make a full judgment on that in the few minute I have have to glance through it . other thing such the Animal and Plant Health Agency in Weybridge and Porton Down need investment . these be risky thing not to invest in . there be go to be a challenge in public spending even with the increase . although the increase be welcome , the growth that the Chancellor have call for and be try to achieve will be require in order to deliver and ensure that we see the spending that we need . even with the uplift that she highlight — the 1 . 5 % from next year in day - to - day spending — this be a very tight financial situation for all Government Departments . the boost to the Department of Health and Social Care be staggering , and welcome . I be sure that the Public Accounts Committee , the Treasury Committee and the Health and Social Care Committee will , among we , hold the Health Secretary to account for his promise to make sure that that be spend well and deliver permanent and lasting change . also , the capital investment be desperately necessary . it be not that long ago that the previous Government raid capital budget for day - to - day spending in the NHS . that can not be allow to continue . the investment in defence be also absolutely necessary . there be a huge gap in the defence equipment plan , which I know my right hon . friend the Chancellor be all over , and she be right to make that increase . I look forward to the path to 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence ; never again should we be go below that . local government , although it have have a boost , be go to be very squeeze . again , we will be work with sister Committees to look at that . the Chancellor also promise to close or reduce the tax gap . that be very bold , and difficult to deliver , so again the Committee will be look closely at how it be deal with , as well as at the recovery of fraud money , which can be challenge to deliver in any particular timescale . rise — I will give way to the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee . I thank the Chair of the Treasury Committee and congratulate she on her new role . there be one very welcome bit of the Budget today , and that be the funding for the infected blood scheme and the Post Office Horizon scheme , but will she join I in urge the Chancellor to ensure that those amount be quickly pay out , so that those victim , whom we hear about almost every day in the medium , be rapidly compensate and can get their life back to normal ? it seem that the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee — this be something the hon . Gentleman and I have in common — hear promise make by government of different colour who do not always deliver as they should . he be absolutely right . in fact , the National Audit Office , at my request , pull together a document look at compensation scheme . they be often put together differently — although these particular scheme have now be set — and some do not deliver as well as other . Windrush be also in that mix . this be important , and perhaps the hon . Gentleman be offer his service to the Chancellor to ensure that that money get out of the door . of course , his Committee will be examine these programme as time go on . it give I great pleasure to respond to the Budget today and to welcome a Labour Chancellor to her place . I wish she well , and I wish the Labour Government well , of course . I want to see these result on the ground in my constituency . as I say , the Chancellor will appear in front of our Committee , without fear or favour , over the come year and we will be challenge she and her Ministers to make sure that they stick to the promise that she have lay out today . we now come to the leader of the Liberal Democrats , Sir Ed Davey . it be a pleasure to follow the Chair of the Treasury Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , and I wish she all the good in her new role , especially give her promise to scrutinise this Budget very , very closely . I join she in note that this be an historic day . this be the first Budget to be present by a female Chancellor , and I congratulate the right hon . member for Leeds West and Pudsey ( Rachel Reeves ) . I be sure that she be blaze the trail for the woman and girl who be watch our proceeding today . there can be no doubt about the enormous task face the Chancellor . after year of chaos and decline under the Conservatives , their appalling economic legacy , set out so clearly in the figure today , be be feel by people across the United Kingdom . People be look to this Budget for a clean break with those failure of the past few year , and for a sense of hope and urgency and the promise of a fair deal , but I fear that the Budget will not deliver all that . the Conservatives leave behind an enormous mess in our NHS , but I be afraid it will not be fix unless the government fix social care , too . the cost of living crisis will not be solve by hit family , pensioner , family farm and struggle small business , and our economy will not grow strongly again unless we repair our broken relationship with Europe . Liberal Democrats will continue to stand up for our constituent and press the Government to be far bold and act much fast on people ' s priority . have say that , let I recognise that there be some good thing in the Budget . I welcome the Chancellor ' s decision to move away from the Conservatives ' break fiscal rule to allow the capital investment that our country so desperately need . I be genuinely surprised that there be no recognition from the Leader of the Opposition of the difference between capital and current spending , which be at the heart of this change . I welcome the promise of full compensation for the victim of the contaminated blood scandal and the Horizon scandal , and I hope that that can be deliver quickly . I also welcome the extra investment in our NHS . fix the crisis in our NHS be literally a matter of life and death . it be also essential for grow our economy , by get people off waiting list and get they fit and healthy and back into work . the Conservatives leave the health service on its knee . we on the liberal Democrat Benches have consistently argue for more investment across the NHS — in hospital building , extra gps , cancer nurse , new radiotherapy machine and much more — so I be glad that the Government and the Chancellor have be listen . however , people have hear bold promise of extra gps and new hospital before . the Conservatives make similar promise on the NHS and then break they , so what we need now be a guarantee that this Government will deliver . I can assure the Chancellor that Liberal Democrats will hold the Government to account on their NHS plan , and I hope that the Budget document set out in full the answer to some obvious question . when will the funding be in place for desperately need hospital project , and when will those project be complete ? when will the Government be able to guarantee that people can see a gp or an NHS dentist when they need one ? when will all cancer patient be able to start treatment within the 62 - day target and not have to wait for month ? when will people know once more that when they call an ambulance it will be there within minute , not hour ? above all , as I have say before , I worry that despite the welcome extra investment announce today , the Government will not be able to fix the nhs because they be ignore the elephant in the NHS waiting room : the crisis in social care . we all know how bad it be . hundred of thousand of people be wait for care , and many be strand in hospital bed because the care be not in place for they to leave hospital . that be bad for they , bad for their love one and bad for the NHS . I be afraid that today ' s announcement on social care just will not touch the side . it be only a standstill in a crisis . unless we finally tackle this problem and agree a long - term solution for social care , we will never end the crisis in our health service , so I urge the government once again to start cross - party talk on care without further delay and to take action now . any solution must involve pay care worker properly to fill the 130 , 000 care worker vacancy , so that elderly and disabled people can get the care they need . the Government ' s plan for a fair pay agreement be a step in the right direction , but it be nowhere near enough , so will the Chancellor look at our plan for a special high minimum wage for carer ? and we must not forget the vital role of unpaid family carer — the hero keep the entire system afloat . I strongly welcome the Chancellor ' s decision to raise the earning limit for carer ' s allowance . it be a good first step , but as she accept in her speech , on its own it will not end the repayment scandal or fix the system . will she confirm whether the earning limit will , in future , be peg to at least 16 hour a week at the minimum wage ? although I be glad that the review will look again at get rid of the cliff edge for carer ' s allowance and the earning limit , I hope she and her colleague will consider a broad review to give family carer the support they deserve . the conservative cost of living crisis have hit family carer particularly hard , but they be not alone . practically no one have be leave untouched by rise bill , high mortgage payment and soar food price . our small business and the self - employ have experience a crisis of their own , have have to deal with the pandemic and now spike energy price and other input cost . the Conservatives only add to that pain by hit struggle family with stealth tax rise , by betray pensioner when they break the triple lock , and by raise national insurance for our small business . I welcome the increase in the national minimum wage as it address the cost of living , although I urge the Chancellor to extend this high wage to apprentice , too . however , it be concern to see the Chancellor repeat a number of the Conservatives ' past mistake . raise employer ' national insurance be a tax on job and people . the OBR report publish today show that the Budget will reduce real household income and worsen the health and care crisis by hit thousand of small care provider . hit family home with change to inheritance tax will not help , and cut winter fuel payment will leave million of vulnerable pensioner worry sick this winter . instead of adopt liberal Democrat proposal to raise the money we need , such as by reverse conservative tax cut for the big bank or by ask the social medium giant to pay a bit more , the Chancellor have choose unfair tax hike that will hurt small and medium - sized business , which be the engine of our economy . they have already pay too high a price for conservative economic failure , and force they to pay even more simply be not right . another conservative mess that I fear this Budget will not begin to clean up be the crisis in local council funding . year after year , the previous Government slash funding while ask council to do more and more . the result have be nothing short of a disaster . spiral social care cost be a huge part of this , which be yet another reason why reform be so vital . there be another black hole in council budget due to the broken system for special educational need and disability . the extra £ 1 billion announce by the Chancellor be therefore welcome , and I pay tribute to my colleague , not least my hon . friend the Member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , who have campaign so hard on this . however , I fear that the crisis in SEND budget leave by the Conservatives be much big . last week , the National Audit Office lay bare the sheer scale of the problem , with half of child wait more than the 20 - week limit for an education , health and care plan , and with 43 % of council at risk of bankruptcy . the severity of the crisis leave by the Conservatives speak for itself , so we need to act with even great urgency to tackle it . we will press the Government to give the House a clear timeline for reform , because neither child , parent nor council can wait any long . the Chancellor have say that her main objective be economic growth , and she be right . we all agree that we need to get our economy grow strongly again to create job and opportunity for everyone , and to raise the money that our public service need , but we need a real plan to do that and not just stop thing get bad or return to business as usual . we need to build the economy of the future — one that be genuinely innovative , prosperous and fair . part of that be about fix the health and care crisis , which will be crucial , as will manage the public finance responsibly and give business the certainty and stability they need to invest in our economy . we must also invest in cheap , clean , renewable power to drive a strong recovery , to bring down energy bill and to create secure , well - pay job . I welcome the step that the Government have take so far , but we must do more to back small business . they be the beat heart of our local economy , so I urge the Chancellor to go beyond today ' s announcement on business rate by make an historic change to overhaul the break business rate system that be destroy our high street and town centre . tinker around the edge be simply not good enough any long . one final crucial ingredient of growth be fix our broken relationship with Europe . remove the Conservatives ' trade barrier would be a massive boost for british job , british business and the british economy . by rule out important step such as a youth mobility scheme or key long - term goal such as membership of the single market , the Government be try to grow our economy with one arm tie behind their back . in July , the british people kick out of office one of the most damaging government in our country ' s history . on the Conservatives ' watch , we see living standard fall , the economy stagnate and public service decline . although no Government would have an easy time turn that around , people be look to this Budget for hope and a genuinely new direction . they be look for urgent action to fix the health and care crisis , for a break from the previous Government ' s tax mistake , for a plan to grow our economy and to rescue local council that be on the brink , and for a fair deal . yes , the Chancellor have to make big , difficult decision , but I fear that she have get too many of they wrong . we need a different Budget to repair the damage do to our country and to give people the fair deal they deserve . for our constituent , Liberal Democrat Members will push the Government to do far more for our economy , for the NHS and for care — those be the thing that the liberal Democrats will always champion . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , which be my old Select Committee . I congratulate our first female Chancellor on deliver an outstanding Budget . it be a great pleasure to speak in my first Budget debate for 14 year , and I think that period of silence be probably appreciate more by my own party than by any other . when I look back on those debate , which I listen to even though I do not speak , it be strike that the curtain have finally fall on an economic philosophy , an economic approach and an economic settlement that have fundamentally fail this country . over the past 14 year , we have witness something akin to " the A . b . c . murder " of the british economy — austerity and a bungle Brexit , follow by chaos . I see clearly how today ' s Budget be a very different kind of settlement . it honour the approach , the compassion , the intelligence and the judgment of the last Budget present to this House by my good friend , mentor and boss , Lord Darling , in March 2010 . Alistair Darling be much miss in this place . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] he be a man of dry wit , patience , tenacity , kindness and compassion . I have no hint of reservation in my mind in say that this be a Budget of which he would have be proud , because it strike the right balance . all Budgets be a balance , as we ask Chancellors not only to balance the number but , more importantly , to balance the interest of our country . compare with the Budget in March 2010 , the Chancellor ' s task today be far hard . back in 2010 , we try to present a budget that would remedy a deficit open up by the great financial crash since the 1930 . rise — we aim to get the right balance between spending restraint , budget rise , growth and time . balance those four ingredient be at the heart of any Budget judgment , and our judgment would have halve the deficit within four year and see debt fall by 2016 . our obsession be to avoid the double - dip recession that have be experience in Japan and to ensure we escape the peril of widen inequality that we have see in the United States . Mr Osborne choose a different path , and he be support by the right hon . member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) , to whom it be my pleasure to give way . the reality , as the right hon . Gentleman know because he write to his successor about it , be that he leave we with a deficit that stand at fully 10 % , as against the 4 . 3 % — and in sharp decline — that we have bequeath to this Government . let we be really clear about what have be bequeath to this Government . the right hon . Gentleman be right that back in 2010 , at the height of the financial crash , the deficit go up . what happen in a financial crash be that the economy have a heart attack : spending continue , because to cut spending would be to deepen a recession and turn it into a depression , tax receipt fall off a cliff , and the role of Government be to sustain a country through that kind of crisis . the deficit rise to £ 154 . 4 billion , yet today how much interest do we pay on the debt we have be bequeath ? we pay £ 104 billion in interest alone , which be almost the entirety of the deficit we have back in 2010 . it be important for the House to recognise that that happen because Mr Osborne choose a balance that be different . he choose to load his austerity programme on public spending cut . actually , he eventually arrive at the same settlement that Labour propose in 2010 , but he take four or five year to get there and he put the economy into recession . if memory serve I correctly , he blame it on some light snow . that austerity programme be follow by a Brexit that be bungle , and then the chaos of the former Prime Minister . do my right hon . friend recall that the previous Labour Government oversee the fast economic recovery from the international incident ? the economy be back in growth by the time of the election because of investment like over £ 20 billion for research and development , so our economy could compete in the race to the top , not the race to the bottom that we see under the previous Government ? correct . in a way , that be the point that I be gently try to make to the House , with a very brief and , everyone will be pleased to hear , soon - to - conclude lesson in the fiscal consolidation of the last 14 year . austerity , a bungle Brexit and chaos leave we with a growth rate that fall from an average of 3 % in the labour year down to 1 . 6 % over the last 14 year . we have tax forecast that fail time and time and time and time again ; living standard that simply do not rise in the last Parliament ; productivity growth that collapse from about 2 % a year to about 0 . 5 % a year ; inequality that soar ; and , as I have just rehearse , debt that multiply to an extraordinary £ 2 . 7 trillion . in the old day , we use to have debate about whether the roof have be fix while the sun be shine . the reality be that for the last 14 year , the conservative party have be try to patch the roof by rip out the foundation of our economy . that approach have draw to a close today . we have only get through the last 14 year because of the ingenuity , fortitude , kindness and compassion of the people we represent . those people deserve a well approach and that be what they get from the Chancellor today . we have an approach that Alistair Darling would have well appreciate : a Budget balance not simply in the number , but in the balance of interest . if we look at the number in the Red Book , we can see the gut of that different approach . everybody know — we might as well be honest in the House today — that the original sin of the british economy be a failure in the investment rate . over the last 14 year , the approach to try to stimulate development have rely on tax cut after tax cut after tax cut after tax cut . today , the Chancellor have end the insanity of try the same thing over and over again , expect different result . the capital investment deliver by this Budget will see £ 104 billion extra being surge into the economy . the Chancellor be absolutely right . last week , at the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank , we hear a clear message from the IMF that unless we raise the fix rate of investment in our economy , we be not go to improve living standard or the growth rate , and we be not go to pay down the debt , so the Chancellor ' s approach be extremely welcome . the Budget forecast show that over the forecast period , we will now see the rate of fix investment increase in our economy by between 6 % and 7 % . that be still probably not enough to catch up with our competitor , but it be a hell of a good start and , crucially , it be a departure from the fail economic philosophy for stimulate investment of the last 14 year . after 14 year of failure , it be time to try something new , and that be what the Chancellor have give we today . that allow we to strike a new bargain with business . we can say to the business community , " look , we will put £ 104 billion extra of capital investment into the economy . we will make sure you have the road , the railway system and the digital infrastructure that you need for your market to function . we will make sure you have a workforce that be actually healthy and well , fit for work and well - train . we will make sure there be investment in the skill you need in your business , and we will make sure your worker stand a hope in hell of get a home somewhere near their work . we will make sure there be investment in research and development . " why ? because if we put all of that together , we will have the great entrepreneur in the world . our entrepreneur have be make history by invent the future since the age of the industrial revolution , but they need good people , good idea and access to capital market , which they do not have today . this Budget begin to make that available . will the right hon . Gentleman and the Chancellor remember that work people also live in rural area ? I be disappoint that the word " rural " be mention only twice in an hour during the Chancellor ' s speech , and then only as an aside . no mention be make of the south - west of England , where there be serious pocket of deprivation — except Cornwall . except Cornwall , but no town . no mention be make of the rest of the south - west , where we suffer from a lack of public transport . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that access to public transport and primary care be vital for work people in rural area ? I agree 100 % , but I say gently to right hon . and hon . member across the House that that be not free . if we want to ensure that there be good transport link and digital link , that the workforce be healthy , well and train , and that there be a rich ecosystem of idea , the money have to come from somewhere . the sensible decision that have be make to increase borrow in order to fund a high level of fix capital investment be wise . investment in public service be wise too . I very much hope that that will benefit the hon . Lady ' s constituency . an increase in investment on the scale we have see today will improve the profitability of business in this country . the Business and Trade Committee look forward to scrutinise the detail and ensure the Government have get the balance right , because , goodness know , it be hard enough to get the balance right in a Budget , never mind translate it into legislation . that bargain for business have to consist of two side : on the one hand , we will create a well business environment through high capital investment , but on the other we have to give worker a pay rise . the labour share of income in this country have fall precipitously since the 1950 . if the labour share of national income be as high today as it be in 1955 , on average a worker would be receive a pay packet this year that be over £ 7 , 000 big . that be why we have to get the balance right between ensure that business be more profitable and ensure that worker be get their share of national income . get the balance right be difficult . like my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , the Chair of the Treasury Committee , my Committee and I will scrutinise that in detail . we will begin that work when we see the Secretary of State for Business and Trade in front of our Committee in just a couple of week ' time . my final point be about where I want the Chancellor to go far . among the bad of her inheritance be the yawn gulf in inequality that scar our country . we have a moral emergency in Britain : sale of superyacht , luxury car and big mansion be at an all - time high , but , at exactly the same time , the queue for food bank have never be great . there be no mystery to that . over the past 14 year , the combination of easy money and low taxis on capital income have mean that the top 1 % in our country — the lucky 1 % — be 41 time rich than everybody else . do they work 41 time hard ? be they 41 time cleverer ? do they win the lottery ? well , in a way they do , because £ 850 billion - worth of quantitative easing hold interest rate in our country down by about 1 % . that trigger three quarter of the rise in asset price that we have see over the past 14 year . of course , people in the top 1 % will own asset and will have see a windfall gain , yet the rate of tax they pay on those capital gain be just half the top rate of marginal tax . I be sorry that the Leader of the opposition be no long in his place to hear I say this , but he do a good thing a couple of year ago , which be to publish his tax return . I be sure that all hon . member will have read it — it do not take long , as it be only a page long . it declare an income of £ 2 million and a tax rate of 23 % . at a time when so many people in our country be pay a top marginal rate of more than 47 % , I do not think that it be morally right that those with broad shoulder be pay much low tax rate . I would have like to have see the Chancellor go far on capital gain tax . I welcome the change to the non - dom and inheritance tax regime , but I would have propose other change as well . if we have truly restore fairness to the tax system , we could have raise money to increase the national wealth fund and open the opportunity , for the first time , of pay dividend into a universal saving account for every young person in this country . that would have help they get a foot on the housing ladder , repay their student debt , invest in their training , or kickstart saving for their pension . that would have help we to create a universal basic capital system in this country . we will need a system like that if we be to fix the scandalous inequality of wealth that now bedevil our country . none the less , I accept that the Chancellor have to put first thing first today . she have to fix the foundation , because , as all of we in this House know , if we get that job do well , the good year for this country truly lie ahead of we . I call the Father of the House . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North ( Liam Byrne ) . he say that Alistair Darling be his hero . my hero be Nigel Lawson , because I be personally convinced that the way to create growth and prosperity be to flatten and low taxis . I think I have sit through 45 budget statement in this House . they be quite exhausting , and I be quite cynical about the whole process . normally , large amount of good news be give out during the Budget statement when we be all sit in the Chamber , but when we read the Red Book the next day we find that we be probably pay even more tax than we be before — everything have be take back . however , this time , the pain have be load up front , so I suppose we should be grateful for small mercy . I be sure the Chancellor of the Exchequer would claim that she be just be honest , but the Budget be , none the less , a massive expansion of tax and spend . government who indulge in massive expansion of tax and spend be government who gradually impoverish country . More and more people — even those just survive on a state pension — will be drag into tax . People on high income will be drag into pay ever high rate of tax . the right hon . member for Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North make the classic attack on the top earner , but 1 % of top earner pay 30 % of all tax revenue . if we simply tax people more and more at the top end of the scale , we will get less enterprise , less growth , and those people will leave the country . it be a vicious circle , and it do not work . I be incredibly grateful to the Father of the House for give way , which be characteristically generous . I think we would both agree that his inspiration and mentor , Nigel Lawson , be not a hoary old socialist , but , of course , he be the one who equalise the top rate of tax and the rate of capital gain , and I do not see people flee the country back then . the right hon . Gentleman and I could have an argument about history , but I would still defend my mentor and , even more so , the Prime Minister at that time , Margaret Thatcher , until the day I die , and we would just have to disagree on that . that be our philosophical foundation . I could devote my speech to an attack on the Labour Government . there be plenty of ammunition to do so . the leader of my party have just give a brilliant expos é of their weakness . however , I want to take the debate a bit far and not be too party political . the british state have fundamental problem . member can the criticise the previous Government for not have the time or the courage to deal with thing , or they could say that we be throw off course by the pandemic . there be a whole load of reason why we be not able to solve the fundamental problem , but I believe very strongly that this Budget will not solve they either . my personal belief be that we have to create an entire new social contract . More and more people feel disconnected from the need to work and to take responsibility for their life . there be four or perhaps five key failure in the state , and I do not think that the Budget have long - term solution for they . I refer to the national health service , the pension service , benefit , immigration , and probably housing , and they be all interconnect . as successive government have not have the courage to go to the root cause of our failure as a state , we be gradually fall behind other country . pump in more billion of pound this year , next year and the year after that will not solve the fundamental problem of the national health service . this be a huge , inefficient , state - run monopoly that solve its problem with queueing . somebody of my age know all about the national health service and have to wait for non - urgent operation — not just for month , but for year , and I can speak about that with personal experience . in Lincolnshire , nearly six out of 10 people face wait time exceed four hour to be see in A & e in 2023 . that be a 42 % increase . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that the investment make today will help reduce those waiting time in Lincolnshire ? well , let we see . of course we can pump more and more money into this broken system and solve some of the short - term problem , but soon we will be not just a country with an NHS , but an NHS with a country attach to it . be it 44 % of total spending that go on the NHS ? it be grow all the time , which mean that , as a country , we be gradually become poor and poor . the long - term result will be that we will have a bad health service . I say to the hon . Lady that , of course , it be totally unacceptable that people wait hour to be treat in A & e , and wait month and year for an operation . in Lincolnshire , 58 % of people in A & E now have to wait more than four hour — four hour ! I can tell the House horror story of my constituent wait up to 24 hour . that be not happen in any other develop country . it be totally unacceptable . surely everyone in this House can unite around the a principle that those who have pay into the system for year should be treat with dignity and expeditiously . will the right hon . member give way ? I must not give way too much , because I will prevent other people from get in . a study of 18 develop country show that the UK be in the bottom three when it come to survival rate for common cancer , stroke and heart attack . Lord Darzi ' s review find that 14 , 000 avoidable death per year be due to long wait in A & E . this drag our life expectancy statistic down and down . meanwhile , even before the Budget , the NHS be eat up 44 % of day - to - day public spending . we be pay more and more and the result be get bad and bad . I predict that for the rest of this Parliament , the Government will keep on pump more of our national wealth into this fail system and we will still fail to catch up with other country . will the right hon . member give way ? no ; I have to keep go . I accept that some issue , such as hospital capacity , can only be deal with by spending , but we do not need to reinvent the wheel ; we need to learn from other country . the Health Secretary , who I admire for his apparent radical zeal — although we have not see much evidence of it — study Australia , for instance . let I break the national taboo on " our NHS " , our religion . there be other country that be like ourselves but which deliver much well — incomparably superior — health outcome . it be my personal belief , and I think I be about the only person who have say this year after year , that we should adopt Australia ' s social insurance model . there be nothing wrong with encourage private provision in health . be that some great heresy ? be it some sort of right - wing philosophy ? well , it be follow by France , Germany , Australia and the Netherlands , and all those other country produce much well health outcome . Australia slowly develop a hybrid system of state and private health insurance . everyone have universal public health insurance , but worker be encourage to purchase private health insurance on top of that . my point be that , with a ballooning , age population , yes , we have to spend more on health , but we have to get people to put more of their own money into health ; and they must be assure that , have put their money in , they will not just end up at the back of a queue , because they have personal right and be commit to this health service . for instance , the average cost of a treatment - only plan for a 20 - year - old in Australia be just £ 23 . 14 a month , and comprehensive cover start at £ 31 a month . that cost rise to £ 109 per month for a 70 - year - old . People earn less than £ 119 , 000 can claim rebate to reduce the cost of health insurance , and high earner without insurance pay a surcharge of between 1 % and 1 . 5 % . research commission by Australia ' s Department of Health show that the cost to the taxpayer would be great without the rebate , because there would be increase stress on the public system . the health outcome be noticeable . Australia have one of the low rate of avoidable mortality among the develop nation . its cancer survival rate be several percentage point high than the UK ' s , and stroke and heart attack mortality rate be several point lower . it be not perfect , of course , and not everything can be import from other country , but Australia ' s system show that there be other model . we must have a national debate about how , with an age population , we can produce the kind of health outcome that people desire . there be a cumulative effect : in 2022 , the australian Government debt be 70 % of gdp . in other word , it be run a tight , well - run ship . that be a country much like we — but the UK have already , even before this Budget , reach a staggering 104 % debt in the same year . we be go break because we do not have the courage , on either side of the aisle , to think from first principle . I be make this argument as much to those on my own Benches as I be to the Government . this situation simply can not go on and on , otherwise people will start talk about charge or give tax relief for private health insurance . we have to have a fundamental debate about the whole structure of health , and the Health Secretary have the good will of people across the House and across the country to start think big and thinking of new idea . if he can find a way forward and improve health outcome , he will go down in history as one of the great Health Secretaries we have ever have . the second fundamental problem we have be the ballooning benefit system , particularly when it come to incapacity . it be trap more and more people in dependence . we need a culture of the necessity of work . we have 4 million people on incapacity benefit , and two third of they — recent joiner — be claim mental illness . the situation be out of control . work should always pay more than benefit . I would have like to have hear more from the Chancellor about how she be go to attack the benefit system and incapacity , which be gradually reduce the government into penury . would the right hon . member join I in congratulate the Chancellor on raise the national living wage — an uplift that will have a transformative impact on the life of more than a third of child live in poverty in Gainsborough as well as child live in poverty in my constituency of North Warwickshire and Bedworth ? the measure will make such a massive difference . the hon . Lady have make her point , although I be talk about incapacity benefit , so I be not sure how her point have address mine . the culture of people live off the state for year , when they be capable of do some work , need to be stamp out . we have to work together in the House to get people off benefit and help they . it be about not just reduce benefit , but have innovative scheme , like those that the former Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , be try to bring about to encourage people back into work , make their whole life well and more productive . thirdly , tackle benefit be a vital ingredient of curb immigration . what be the spur for mass immigration ? it be that health and social care simply can not get enough worker for the salary they be pay . there be too many people on benefit , and we be drag more and more people from all over the world into our system . we need to insist that anyone enter the country earn at least average UK earning . we can not go on undercut our native worker with cheap foreign labour . we have to pay decent wage in our care service , and reform the whole benefit structure so that people actually want to work . we can not solve our problem with mass immigration , and mass illegal immigration be part of the problem . it be gradually destroy the social contract and people ' s belief in the system , and the Government must have a plan to deal with it , which basically mean arrest people when they land illegally on these shore , and offshore they . the other great problem in our national psyche that we have not really address be the whole pension system . I have to declare an interest : I be of pensionable age . [ hon . member : " never ! " ] some member will be very happy when I retire from this House , but I do try to tell the truth accord to my own light and to state difficult truth . the fact be that we have more and more elderly people , more and more sick people , and more and more people with multiple health problem . we be all commit to keep the triple lock , and I would get into awful deep water if I say that do so be become increasingly unaffordable , but of course if the portion of the state spending devote to pension increase every year in real term , we will gradually ensure that the country can not pay its way . this be a difficult truth that nobody yet have have the courage to address : we have to do more to encourage private pension , and not — I say this to the Chancellor — see private pension pot as a convenient thing to raise taxis on . many year ago , I serve on the Social Security Committee under the late , great Frank Field , a man immensely respect on both side of the aisle . we study country like Chile that be make explicit the creation of contributory pension system . People be encourage to put more into their pension and plan for their old age . that be the only way , with an age population , that we can solve our problem . in addition to all this , I be afraid that wokery and human right legislation be gradually eat away into our — [ Laughter . ] Government member may all laugh , but it be true . many people feel that they be not part of the way in which this country be run . these be just lesson that the Government have to learn . will the right hon . member give way ? the hon . Lady have try to intervene again and again , so I will give way . the right hon . member mention that many people do not feel part of how the country have be run , and for the last 14 year we have see regressive Budgets that have hit the poorest hard . do he welcome , with I , that our Budget be progressive and in fact distribute the burden where it be most well shoulder ? well , if the hon . Lady think that , I wish her luck , but I fear that we be just go to gradually paper over the crack — and I will criticise my own side in this regard . for 14 year , Ministers go along with the liberal consensus , talk about " our NHS " , paper over the crack with more and more money , employ more and more nurse and doctor , and get bad and bad outcome . meanwhile , productivity nosedive and mass immigration reach unimaginable height to keep public service go . we have to be honest , as we be now in opposition . I welcome the fact that one of our leadership candidate be say that we have to start from first principle . that be what I be try to do : start from first principle on how to recreate the british state . that be what Mrs Thatcher do ; I work for she when she be Leader of the Opposition in the 1970 . we need a whole new intellectual drive . in opposition , Keith Joseph and the Institute of Economic Affairs create a new vibrant conservative philosophy for how we could solve the deep - seat problem in this country . the Budget could have be such an opportunity , but I be afraid it reflect the old tax and spend instinct of the Labour party . I agree with the Labour party that housing be a great failure of our state . of course we need a massive house building drive , or more appropriately a flat building campaign . the easy way out be to take good agricultural land and greenbelt land , particularly around London . instead , we need to incentivise building in city and on brownfield site . I fear I have weary the House , so I will stop now . [ hon . member : " More ! " ] no doubt these difficult word about the national health service or the triple lock will be use by Labour party spokesman for year to come , if anybody be interested . however , I hope that we have the intellectual courage to try to solve the real problem in our society . how be we go to get a decent health service that be on a par with what we find in France , Australia and the Netherlands ? how be we go to get a decent housing programme ? how be we go to get people to contribute more towards their old age ? unless we address the fundamental deep - seat problem in the british state we will just gradually become a poor and poor nation . it be an honour to follow the Father of the House ; I hope not to weary the House with my speech . today , the Chancellor have be extraordinary in her strength and her ability to turn a really bad situation into a really good one . we can not hide from the fact that we have have 14 year of Tory Government . while those on social medium may say , " oh , the Labour party be just slag off the Tories for the last 14 year , " those 14 year be the reason I decide to stand to be a Member of Parliament . have be the parliamentary private Secretary to the Chancellor when she be the shadow Chancellor , and have be the shadow Whip to the Treasury team , I know the integrity and seriousness with which they will have deal with her first Budget . the scaremongering of the Leader of the Opposition , pretend to be a man of the people , really stick in my throat . I do not know how he have the audacity after 14 year of Tory Government . however , the Labour party and this Labour Government have promise change from the failure of the last 14 year , and the Budget show our commitment to deliver that . the scale of the challenge be gargantuan , and I know that the Chancellor have make some tough but necessary decision . although inflation have subside to around 2 % , help to boost household income , interest rate be predict to be cut later in the year , extend household budget a bit more . I need not remind the House that the inflation reach 11 % under the last government . today , I will wear a number of hat — metaphorically , of course . I be the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , and the chair of the all - party parliamentary beer group . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] it be very important . I be also the MP for a constituency where agriculture play a huge role . many of my farming constituent , and many farmer around the country , be concern to hear speculation regard the removal or upheaval of inheritance tax relief , include the agricultural property relief and business property relief . with many farmer still feel the impact of the loss of direct payment , two year of severe flooding , high inflation and extremely volatile market condition , the industry welcome reassurance from Labour last year that agricultural property relief would not be change . family farm be the backbone of the industry , especially in my constituency of Gower . farming be in these people ' s blood . they do not do it for financial benefit , because for many of they there be not much money in it . they do it because it be their life and their calling . the 100 % rate of relief continue for the first £ 1 million of combine agricultural and business asset to help to protect family farm and business be most welcome , but I would appreciate an opportunity to discuss with the Chancellor , the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs or the Treasury team how we can ensure that family farm that may come just over the threshold can continue to play their role in our country , and how we can support they through the change and avoid any unintended consequence . I be hopeful that measure in the Budget will help the industry by drive ambition and investment . investment in our agricultural sector will improve our food security and give farmer confidence in a Labour Government . as well as agriculture , brewing and hospitality have a huge footprint in my constituency and across every United Kingdom constituency . these sector support 1 million job , provide £ 17 billion in wage and deliver £ 34 . 3 billion of gross value add across the UK economy . the brewing and hospitality sector be vital to the economic and social wellbeing of our community across the United Kingdom ; however , the industry remain under a great deal of pressure post the pandemic . support by a number of member of the all - party parliamentary beer group , I write to the Chancellor highlight key area in which the Budget could make a positive impact on the brewing and hospitality sector . first , the industry previously welcome the Government ' s pledge to reform the business rate system , and I welcome today ' s announcement of the Chancellor ' s commitment to permanently low business rate multiplier for retail , hospitality and leisure property from 2026 - 27 . I acknowledge that the drop to 40 % relief will cause concern , so I hope that the Chancellor or the Secretary of State for Business and Trade will work with the sector to address those concern . secondly , the beer and pub sector be one of the high tax sector of the economy in recent year . the industry have support the alcohol duty review . the cutting of duty on draught product be a recognition of the commitment to pub and small brewery . again , I hope that concern around the increase on non - draught product in line with RPI will be listen to . finally , I be pleased to hear the Chancellor commit to ensure that Northern Ireland receive its fair share , with an extra £ 1 . 7 billion receive through the Barnett formula . I be personally delighted to read that £ 730 , 000 will be give to the Executive to support integrate education , and a furth £ 45 . 8 million will be give to support the vital work of the additional security fund of the Police Service of Northern Ireland , and the Executive programme on paramilitarism and organised crime . aside from that , concern have be raise with I about future funding application for organisation in Northern Ireland — whether about the share prosperity fund , the city deal , or , let we not forget , the poor execution of the levelling - up fund under the last government . community group play such a vital role in Northern Ireland , and we must recognise that . the shared prosperity fund have be a lifeline for many organisation , and although it be continue at a reduce rate , I welcome the fact that the Budget put aside £ 1 million for community group in Northern Ireland . the decision on the Causeway Coast and Mid South West city deal be pause during the pre - Budget spending review , so I be sure that the people behind those deal will be absolutely delighted with the announcement that they will go ahead . I be hopeful that the Government will work well with our devolved government . as we have see , the last 14 year have work against the Labour Government in Wales . we must have the good outcome for people across the United Kingdom . the increase in funding through the Barnett formula show positive commitment to devolution . the Budget be difficult , but it be necessary . it be a once - in - a - generation Budget . it will , and it must , deliver the change that our constituent vote for . we will not go backwards ; we will only go forwards . this country need change . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) . I do not wear quite as many hat as she , but it be interesting to hear her perspective on the Budget . I have a different perspective . my issue with the Budget be not the political choice that the Chancellor have choose to make — clearly she have the mandate to make any change that she wish to make — but the fact that it be a Budget of broken promise to the electorate , which be a dreadful thing to do for trust in politician . I will also highlight the economic choice that I think the Chancellor have get wrong . the first break promise be one that the Chancellor make during the election campaign , when she say time and again that she would not " fiddle the figure . " today , she have clearly break that promise . she have announce a multi - billion pound change to the UK ' s borrowing , and she announce it overseas , not first to Parliament — I know how angry you and Mr Speaker be about that , Madam Deputy Speaker . as we all know , and as the IFS have say , borrowing be not a free lunch ; it will mean that there be more debt and more debt interest spending . I have not yet have a chance to question the Office for Budget Responsibility in detail on its number , but from an initial look at its chart , the amount of additional borrowing that be announce today by far exceed anything in the mini - Budget in late 2022 . the Treasury Committee will ask the Office for Budget Responsibility about that . the second broken promise that the Chancellor make during the election campaign be that her plan be fully fund , and that she have no plan to raise taxis , beyond those list in the manifesto . in fact , colleague have count that she and the Prime Minister make that utterance 50 time . I believe that that promise have be soundly break today , and that a deliberate political choice have be make to announce the big unforced tax - raise Budget ever . unforced ? unforced . during the election campaign , the Chancellor tell the british public that taxis be too high . she say that she want to bring taxis down . she have roundly break that promise today , because the Budget increase tax for every household in this country , possibly by up to £ 10 , 000 over this Parliament . that be way beyond the £ 2 , 000 figure that we warn about during the election campaign — a warning that the Prime Minister say on national television be a lie . the Chancellor campaign on a general election strategy that I believe be deliberately design to mislead the electorate . her plan , and those of the Deputy Prime Minister , end up give we german taxis with french labour law — a recipe for high unemployment if ever I have see one . the scale of the tax change announce today for small business that employ more than four people be astonishing . Labour Members should let that sink in . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not give way to the hon . Gentleman , who so often give evidence to the Treasury Committee . I recall that I have to press he on the fact that NHS productivity have not yet return to its pre - pandemic level . he tell we on the record that if it do , that would be worth £ 20 billion in additional NHS output . the Chancellor promise that she want to focus on growth . that be her mission , but I believe that more taxis , more public spending and more borrowing do not lead to growth ; if they do , Venezuela would be one of the most prosperous country on earth . what the Chancellor be plan all along , together with her Cabinet colleague — who have no experience of work in the wealth - create , job - creating , tax - pay private sector — be a Budget of the public sector , by the public sector , for the public sector . she can not blame we , because in her first 25 day as Chancellor she announce £ 25 billion of additional new spending , whether that be for great British Energy , a national wealth fund , or inflation - bust backdate union pay rise with no productivity requirement . I also want to speak up for my farmer in West Worcestershire . will the hon . Lady give way ? do the hon . Gentleman want to stand up for my farmer ? my farmer be some of the most productive and hard - work people in this country . they be the one who put food on our table , and they be soundly disappointed with today ' s Budget . there be no help or certainty for they in the Budget — no help for they through the agricultural property relief that allow they to hand on the family farm to the next generation . Labour Members should know that this Budget will mean that many family farm will be break up , unable to be hand on to the next generation . will the hon . Lady give way ? as the hon . Lady can see , I be not give way at the moment . as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , the only way that we get true , genuine , sustainable growth in this country be through productivity and investment by the private sector . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be not give way at the moment . I be go to allow more time for other later on . rise — order . the hon . Lady have make it very clear that she be not give way , so please allow she to continue . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . anyone who have ever work in business know that they need to increase the productivity of their business , and investment in that business be link to its profitability , profit that will fall as a result of the measure that have be impose on business today . when we work out the number , I think those measure will equate to about 4p on corporation tax . this be a Budget of broken promise that will end up give the british people less growth . member do not have to listen to I to hear that : they can listen to the Office for Budget Responsibility , which forecast a short - term boost to growth but a long - term reduction in the sustainable growth rate of the british economy thank to the measure that the Chancellor outline today . in the month since the Chancellor take office , we have see the evidence . we have already see business shut at double the rate they be a year ago . we be already see a plunge in business confidence , and we have hear the former chief economist of the Bank of England say that the socialist narrative we have have since the election have generate " fear and foreboding and uncertainty " . this be a Budget of broken promise — a straightforward breach of promise to the british public — and it be a dreadful day for the british economy . when we go through Hansard , I be sure we will see that the hon . Member do not mean to accuse another hon . member of lie — change that term to " mislead " would have be far more appropriate . no doubt the hon . Member agree with I . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I refer to the Prime Minister ' s word on national television , and I be quote he directly , but if I have inadvertently mislead the House , I apologise . thank you so much . that be an absolutely appropriate way to respond . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) . I well remember one of her very early speech when we both come to this place , in which she give a lecture to this House about the benefit of the Laffer curve . have also listen to the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , I be pleased to report that although Milton Friedman , Keith Joseph and Mrs Thatcher may be long go , their idea will live on as long as those two member sit on the Conservative Benches . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) for a great speech stand up for her farmer in her rural constituency . I think she face , as Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , the same problem that we face in Wales . we in Wales be too heavily dependent on the public sector and there be a lack of entrepreneurship , which be similar problem to those face in Northern Ireland , but I can think of no great champion to stand up for Northern Ireland than my hon . friend . thing have change since the last time I speak in this House . I be the Member for Islwyn , and I be now the Member for Caerphilly . if you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and the House will indulge I for a moment , I want to pay tribute to my predecessor as the Member of Parliament for Caerphilly , Wayne David , who be a doughty champion for his constituency . he absolutely love this place , and he be one of our great Welsh parliamentarian . I be sure Wayne David would join I in welcome today the first speech by a Labour Chancellor for 14 year , and the very first by a female Labour Chancellor at that . for those of we who come in in 2010 , it be a long haul in opposition , and I be delighted to be stand here today on the Government Benches . " Britain have live for too long on borrow time , borrow money , borrow idea . we live in too troubled a world to be able to promise that in a matter of month , or even in a couple of year , that we shall enter the promise land . the route be long and hard . " those word be speak by Prime Minister James Callaghan at the Labour party conference in Blackpool almost 50 year ago , in 1976 . his analysis lay the blame for Britain ' s problem at the door of high Government debt , high taxation and low productivity . the economic ill we suffer today have come upon we over several decade . they will not go away in day , week or month , but they must go away . great as our tax burden be , it have not keep pace with public spending . for decade , we have pile deficit upon deficit , mortgage our future and our child ' s future for the political gain of the present . to continue this long trend be to guarantee move towards tremendous social , cultural , political and economic upheaval . we face hand over a toxic legacy to our child and our child ' s child . that be how serious the current crisis we face be . our challenge , in this place in this time , be break the cycle that mean those word of Callaghan still reflect acutely on the situation we face today . we need to get away from two myth that be peddle about the british economy . first , there be those who believe that sweeping tax cut will , as we have hear from Opposition Members , turbocharge the economy without any adverse effect on public service . they cite the 1980 as a global age , but taxis could be cut when the Government be able to rely on North sea oil money and the privatisation of industry . in 2024 , that be not an option . a tax cut would only come at the price of cut public service . it be a lesson we should have learn from the infamous fiscal event of September 2022 . the experience of most people we speak to , whether they be try to book a medical appointment or simply renew a passport , be poor . that position be intolerable . the second myth be that , if we chuck enough money at a problem , somehow that will solve it . as someone who serve on the Public Accounts Committee for five year under my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , who be now the Chairman of the Treasury Committee , I find that a laughable idea . take the ajax programme , which be mean to provide a new armoured vehicle for our Army . it be initially mean to be deliver in 2017 , but it be now 2024 , and it be still not complete . meanwhile , north of £ 3 billion of public money have be waste . both soldier and the public purse have suffer the consequence of a wasteful mess that create unsuitable , unsafe and largely unusable vehicle . the National Audit Office call it " flawed from the start " , and note that it be suffer from problem that plague other defence programme . the programme be even yet to be deliver , and it face the threat of be obsolete , despite the mammoth cost to the taxpayer . we can not allow a system in which regular mistake be the norm , and be simply part of the culture . we can not have civil servant shrug their shoulder and say , " that ' s the way it be . " they be spend public money . an estimated £ 7 . 3 billion be lose to fraud relate to covid - 19 scheme from 2020 to 2022 , accord to the National Audit Office . some £ 2 . 9 billion be spend on personal protective equipment that be deem unusable for frontline service . I welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement about the covid corruption commissioner , but the fraud should not have happen in the first place . most recently , hundred of million of pound go down the drain for the fail Rwanda scheme . whatever we think about such scheme , what message do that give to those who be work hard to pay into the system every month , and who be ask for more and more of their hard - earn money in taxis ? Ronald Reagan — yes , I be quote somebody from the right wing — once say : " government be not the solution to our problem ; government be the problem . " I believe that bad government be the real problem . the Government can not do everything , but they can do some thing well — the rise in the minimum wage announce today be one such example . however , we can not go on this way ; there be no future in give Departments more and more money if it be only go to be waste . if there be a black hole in a Department ' s budget , the system create that , and more money will not change wasteful practice . there need to be fundamental reform in the way we manage major project . the Chancellor announce some productive measure today , but if we do not stop money leak out of Government through wastefulness and mistake , we be fail the taxpayer . we must be strict with ourselves when it come to project and government spending . we need the chair of the Office for Value for money , announce in July , to report annually to the House . they must be task with several question about each project : be it on time , and be it deliver value for money ? if not , if necessary we have to be ruthless . we either take the decision to carry on with project that be doom to lose money , or we take a step back — do less but do it well , and start create more thing that we can export abroad . as the Chancellor recognise in her speech , we can not borrow indefinitely , and we can not keep ask hard - work people for more and more , while government make costly error and ask the taxpayer to pick up the bill . investment to rebuild be necessary , and the Government be right to protect the most vulnerable from shoulder an increase burden . however , it be time for a root and branch reform of the civil service , with a realistic economic policy that consider the state of the public finance as they be , not as we wish or hope they be . I be hopeful that the Budget have do that today . if we do not act now , in 50 year ' time will future generation be speak of the same ailment ? if they be , it mean simply that we have fail and have effect no real change in our time in this place . Callaghan raise these problem 50 year ago . it be our duty to ensure that we do not spend another 50 year stick in that same place . I call the SNP Treasury spokesperson . four month ago the people take the Labour party at its word and vote for change . it do not take long for it to become clear that the Labour party be offer not change for the well , but change for the bad . Pre - election there be no mention of push 900 , 000 pensioner in Scotland into fuel poverty , yet here we be . the Chancellor say that she would not raise taxis on work people , yet we now find due to labour ' s absurdly one - dimensional yet infinitely flexible definition of " work people " that people be in line for five year of fiscal drag on their income and tax allowance . the Chancellor say that she would not put up national insurance , but after the election she qualify that with " on employee " , as she now raid payroll account for charity , care home and local business for her 1 . 2 % national insurance hike . during all that , where be Scottish Labour mps ? where be their howl of indignation defend their scottish constituent and the scottish economy ? they be silent , with a mere seven Labour mp rebel on the two - child cap , and not one of they from Scotland . the national insurance increase be a direct assault on Scotland ' s business , worker , and growth plan . Scotland ' s vital hospitality sector — our pub , hotel and cafe — be already hamstring by Brexit , and will face an increase burden as a result of the change today . this punish tax hike will hit many of Scotland ' s 340 , 000 sme hard — the very company that drive growth , that reinvest locally , that sustain 1 . 2 million scottish job and 42 . 4 % of all private sector turnover in Scotland and that sponsor local group and club . they be catch in the crosshair of this anti - small business Labour Chancellor . like much else , raid employment taxis be not in Labour ' s manifesto , and many ordinary self - employ people with modest income from local business — they deliver essential economic activity where the capital generate remain local , turn an average profit of £ 23 , 000 a year , and many of they may well have vote labour — will fall foul of Labour ' s rank duplicity in this change to tax orthodoxy , unlike those work for public limited company or the public sector earn six - figure salary . the national insurance hike , with the threshold down to £ 5 , 000 and the rate up to 15 % , represent a £ 25 billion double whammy tax on job — plain and simple . the resource that will fund the Chancellor ' s raid on payroll be the same resource that business would have use to recruit more people into work , reduce unemployment , grow their own business and assist in the ambition of great growth in the wide economy . the Chancellor have just torpedo that . it be the same resource that would have deliver pay rise for ordinary work people next year . where will that resource come from now ? the Chancellor note that she be not put up taxis on work people , and that may technically be true this year , but with next year ' s pay claim guarantee to be suppress by her raid on employer ' NI , she be bake in low wage for worker next year and in subsequent year . the Scotch Whisky Association have describe the duty on whisky as " a hammer blow " . the Prime Minister promise to " back Scotch producer to the hilt . " he should have tell his Chancellor , because she have just tax Scotch whisky to the hilt . it be completely unacceptable , and it be part of Scotland ' s burden . none of this be acceptable . we be not content to continue foot the bill for decision that we have no part in . we go into this election with the high taxis in live memory , and they have just go up again . ten year ago , we be implore to lead the UK , not leave the UK , and what have we get now ? we have Government Benches awash with Scottish Labour mp , while Scotland wait with bated breath for just one of they to stand up for their constituent , where their interest lie at odd with Westminster . the Scottish Labour mp have back the Chancellor ' s two - child cap , snare 87 , 000 of our constituent ' child in poverty , and vote to strip the winter fuel payment from 900 , 000 scottish pensioner in ours , the cold part of this island . if that be a local labour champion , I do not fancy meet a local labour villain on a dark night . all of this be justify by the fabled £ 22 billion black hole . with all this black hole hyperbole , I would like somebody in the Treasury to put the light on , because it might shine the white light of truth on the black hole that labour fear to mention . they include the £ 30 billion black hole where , by rip ourselves out of the EU , we have be mortgage to the twin burden of increase administrative cost and the lose opportunity of membership of the world ' s large trading bloc . there be the black hole of nuclear energy suck billion from the taxpayer , produce the most expensive energy at some time indeterminate in the future , and the Bank of England ' s £ 24 billion black hole for quantitative tightening , which have not be discuss once in this House . I welcome the £ 12 . 21 minimum wage . it fall short of the £ 12 . 60 scottish living wage , but it be a start . I welcome the £ 2 . 9 billion for defence , but I would be interested to know if any of that be ringfence . alarm bell will be ring on farm across Scotland about agricultural property relief , especially as Labour have say consistently — it be specifically say by the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs prior to the election — that it have no plan to review agricultural allowance . it be deeply worrying . it be good that Budgets will now be annual . investment in capital investment should be 3 % , and that should be a floor , not a ceiling , but long - term certainty be need for the devolved nation . the hon . Member may have see that the Scottish Trades Union Congress have say that , for the SNP , " the Westminster blame game be finish . they have the money . they have the power . " will he acknowledge that this Budget end austerity and that the Scottish Government now have no more excuse for their failure ? indeed I will not accept that . I will get on to that — and to the block grant in particular — in just a minute if the hon . Gentleman will bear with I for a second or two . infrastructure be like a sport : if you do not do it very much , you tend not to be very good at it — see smart motorway , Hinkley Point C and hs2 . the Chancellor claim that there be no return to Tory austerity , and she be right , because this be labour ' s austerity , plain and simple . it be all the same to Scotland , though . she have call on Government Departments to make 2 % efficiency saving . there be literally no precedent for that , ever . no Government have ever achieve that , so those efficiency gain will not be realise , and those 2 % saving will turn into 2 % cut . the hon . member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) ask about the Scottish Government ' s position . we be lead to believe that the block grant be go up by £ 3 . 4 billion . clearly , that be welcome , but let we look at the back story , because that be what be important . the Scottish Government now receive a low share of UK spending than at any point in the last decade . total UK Government expenditure have decrease since 2020 , and Scotland ' s share of that expenditure have decrease fast still . in 2014 , the adjusted block grant represent 8 % of UK Government expenditure ; however , that figure have fall to 7 . 6 % . that attrition represent a real - term cut to the scottish budget every year since 2020 , and the scottish block grant be now worth £ 6 . 4 billion less than it be in 2021 , a drop of 12 . 7 % . of course , as we always do , the Scottish Government will put the £ 3 . 4 billion to tremendous use , but it still leave we £ 3 billion short of where we be just four year ago . that be the problem with this Union . moreover , last year the Scottish Government ' s capital block grant be cut by 9 . 6 % , a real - term cut of £ 600 million , and we face a further cut from Westminster of 3 % , or £ 200 million , to our capital grant this year . that be money not available to build school , hospital , road and so on in Scotland . the Chancellor do not address that in the Budget today . we have fresh austerity and a fresh cost of living crisis deliver by this Labour Government — a Hobson ' s choice for Scotland in break Brexit Britain , where thing can only get bad . nine hundred thousand scottish pensioner will have watch today in the vain hope that the Chancellor would u - turn on her winter fuel payment cut . well , she finish that hope today . the winter fuel payment raid be a political choice with the most serious consequence . labour ' s own figure show that it could result in 4 , 000 excess death this winter , and estimate suggest that the cost to the NHS will be just shy of £ 1 billion and just shy of £ 100 million in Scotland . in leaflet that go out across Scotland and elsewhere in the UK , Labour promise to reduce energy bill by £ 300 ; instead , they have rise by £ 149 , so where be Labour ' s £ 449 saving come from ? speak to we from Manchester , the chair of GB Energy could not say when any saving would materialise , and last night Labour move to block any move to put that on a statutory footing in the GB Energy Bill . it be head Westminster win and tail Scotland lose . this Budget have do nothing to atone for the 4 . 3 million UK child live in poverty , a situation that be far entrench by Labour ' s two - child cap impact over 87 , 000 scottish child . over 100 child a day fall into poverty with Labour ' s two - child cap . that be 10 , 000 child since Labour take office in July . what a record ! this be a know - your - place Budget for child , the disabled and those live in poverty . it be a wait - a - little - long budget for WASPI woman . it be a kiss - goodbye - to - your - family - farm Budget . it be a hand - over - the - money Budget if you be in Scotch whisky . it be a show - some - gratitude Budget to Scotland , to get a piece of what be already our to begin with . and it be a grim reaper Budget for the 4 , 000 pensioner across these island who will not survive to see another . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) , despite his failure to acknowledge that this be the big real - term block grant that Scotland have ever see from the UK Government , and his failure to apologise for the mess that his Government , the SNP Scottish Government , have make over the past 17 year for people across Scotland . it be from the Opposition Benches in 2010 , during the Budget debate , lead by the Conservative Chancellor of the time , that I rise to make my maiden speech . it feel fitting to speak for the first time since my return to the House in today ' s Budget debate , follow our first Labour Budget for many year — and from the first female Chancellor , no less . with your leave , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will touch on my return to the House and my new constituency before return to the Budget . I be from a work class background , the daughter of a factory worker and a car salesman . I be raise to know that the odd be against we . I enter politic to work hard to even the play field with my colleague , give people the home , the education , the healthcare and the money in their pocket to ensure the good possible quality of life . but during my last period serve in this House as a Scottish MP , from 2010 to 2015 , all politic be see only through the prism of the constitutional debate , and progress in Scotland wither in its shadow . it mean the world to I to return to Parliament now , when we be move from a period of stagnation in Scotland and across the UK , and to get back to fighting to improve the life of our constituent from every single background . in my constituency of Motherwell , Wishaw and Carluke , I be now the next - door neighbour to my previous constituency . it be an area I know and love exactly the same , and I be so excited about work with the people there in the month and year to come . with the three main town of Motherwell , Wishaw and Carluke , the small town of Forth and Law , our lovely village and beautiful rolling field and view of Clyde valley , our constituency be a brilliant place to live and visit . Carluke be picturesque , with its sandstone town centre , and be know as a " town call courage " , in recognition of three son of the town , William Angus , Thomas Caldwell and Donald Cameron , who be each award the Victoria Cross . More than 2 , 000 man and woman with local connection have serve our armed force in the past 200 year . that be testament to the bravery and dedication of our community , both past and present . Motherwell and Wishaw be at the heart of Scotland ' s industrial landscape , with the tower Ravenscraig at its centre . its closure in the early 1990 have repercussion that we still feel today . now , the site be home to our state - of - the - art sport centre , the New College Lanarkshire campus , and thousand of people and home build for the future . the rejuvenation and hope at Ravenscraig symbolise both the hardship that Lanarkshire have face for decade , and our ambition and drive to achieve a well future . I will do everything I can , as the MP for Motherwell , Wishaw and Carluke , to make that future a reality . until the election , our constituency be represent by Angela Crawley and Marion Fellows , and I pay tribute to they . Angela be a hard - work champion for her constituent , and become know in this House as a vocal advocate for LGBT right , and especially for tran people at a time when it be most difficult to do so . I applaud she for that work . marion prove to be a respectful and fair opponent in this summer ' s election campaign . her time here will be remember for her work for the right of people live with disability , and as a lead campaigner for justice for sub - postmaster long before it become a fashionable cause to champion . I wish she well in her retirement . before return to the Budget , I can not let this moment pass without pay tribute to my labour predecessor in my constituency , whom I serve alongside in this House between 2010 and 2015 . Jimmy Hood and Frank Roy both have their politic forge in the Thatcher year . Jimmy be a lead member of the National Union of Mineworkers during the miner ' strike , and Frank be a steelworker at the forefront of the battle to save Ravenscraig . Jimmy serve his constituent for 23 year , and we sadly lose he 2017 . People here in Parliament and at home in Carluke often remember he fondly to I . I know he to always be always smile , fun and kind . Frank Roy have be a trusted friend of mine since I start out in politic . in fact , Frank be the first person who ask I to stand for Parliament . that simple question help to give I the confidence to express my ambition to do so . he be an incredible representative for Motherwell and Wishaw , and continue to serve the people of Lanarkshire now , lead the Lanarkshire Cancer Care Trust base in Wishaw . I be lucky to call he my friend . I will turn my comment to the business of today ' s debate . today ' s Budget represent a real commitment to protect work family and to reject the damaging austerity measure that have scar our community for far too long . we all remember — indeed , be still live with — the effect of austerity : cut to vital service , job loss and increase hardship for our most vulnerable citizen . this Budget unequivocally signal that this Government be commit to move away from that approach . we will not return to the fail economic model of the past 14 year , which prioritise cut over care . instead , we be focus on investment and growth . the people of Motherwell , Wishaw and Carluke have feel those consequence deeply , and it be our responsibility to ensure that we do not return to that path . the country vote for change , and this Budget be all about deliver the solution we need for a bright future . it be the irresponsible choice of the last government that cause this mess , and it be the responsible choice of this government that will get we out of it . I can not help but have a bit of personal excitement to see an old friend , my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West and Pudsey ( Rachel Reeves ) , deliver the Budget at the Dispatch Box , the first woman to do so . I have be ask several time recently , " when you be first elect together in 2010 , do you ever think that she would end up Chancellor ? " and the answer to that be yes — yes , I do . it should never have take we this long to have a woman at No . 11 , but I think we can all agree — at least on the Labour Benches — that it have be worth the wait . let we be clear that today ' s Budget from a Labour Chancellor be good news for people across Scotland and across the UK , especially in my constituency of Motherwell , Wishaw and Carluke . we on the Labour Benches campaign loud and clear at the general election for change , and that be what have be deliver here today . the triple lock be confirm for pensioner , mean that pension will go up by £ 900 this year and £ 470 next year , and they be project to go up by another £ 1 , 700 during this Parliament . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will not give way just now . there be a wage rise for 200 , 000 scot , with the increase in the minimum wage and the step take to remove the discrimination against young people , who deserve the same wage for the same work ; the large increase ever for carer ' s allowance ; and an additional £ 3 . 4 billion for Scotland , bring our block grant to a record level . it be now the responsibility of the SNP Scottish Government to put that money to good use . Madam Deputy Speaker , you and I know that those of we in this House be a bit unusual . political animal be not the norm . when I speak with my constituent , they do not care if it be Labour , Tory or SNP politician who put more money in their pocket and fix public service — they just want it do . so we need no more vanity project , and no more money waste on research paper for an independence debate that people be sick of hear about . this be real money that can alleviate real problem now . I do not want my constituent to have to wait until the scottish election in 2026 for an improvement in our school and our hospital . this money have to get to the frontline immediately , and the Scottish Government will be judge at the ballot box if it do not . I will finish by say that my welcome back here have be heartfelt and warm , from colleague across the House to the Doorkeepers and staff across the estate who look after we in this place every day , but the one question I be ask over and over again be , " what have change since the last time you be here ? " the truth be that not much have change . we still work very much the same way . there be , perhaps , a couple of change for I . last time I be here I be the baby of the House and now I be old enough to be the current holder of that title ' s mum . but the one enormous change from the last time I be here be that I be in government with this Labour party — a Labour Government . there could be no big change , and we be just at the start of see the great wave of investment , progress and growth that this new Government will achieve . it be an enormous pleasure to follow the hon . member for Motherwell , Wishaw and Carluke ( Pamela Nash ) . until recently , my cousin be a minister in Carluke . let I give the House a piece of Swahili wisdom . Howezi kuwafukuza swala wawili : you can not chase two antelope . that , however , be exactly what the Government have be do since they be elect . they announce immediately after the election , and repeat today , that their override priority be to secure economic growth by invest , investing , investing , but in reality their main effort be elsewhere . their main effort be a create a narrative in the public mind that they have inherit a wasteland , the bad inheritance of any Government since kingdom come : that the wicked Tories have operate a scorch earth policy leave absolutely everything break , nothing work , and a huge black hole . as a consequence , thing would have to get bad before they could get well , and there would be implication for tax in the forthcoming budget — and , of course , we have discover that today . the reality be that investment require an optimistic outlook . by pour such a bucket of cold water on the british economy , what the Government achieve be to reverse what be soar business confidence and turn it into absolutely collapse business confidence ; and business confidence be the key to investment , not the great binge of borrow that the Government be about to enter into . would the right hon . Gentleman welcome the £ 63 billion of investment that come through the international investment summit as a result of the election of a Labour Government ? that money have be hold back until the election , and the election lead to the investment of those billion of pound . be that not a sign of significant business confidence in our country ? much of it reannounce , and much of it put at risk by the behaviour of the Transport Secretary , but nevertheless an achievement . of course I welcome any inward investment . what I think be a huge risk be a great borrowing binge for exactly the sort of investment that we see throughout the 1960 and 1970 , which never deliver . real investment — investment that improve productivity — be that which be undertake largely by medium and small firm to invest in their own enterprise , but it be crowd out by the increase cost that be entirely a consequence of the Government ' s great borrowing binge . on that basis , this Budget be a disaster . it be my great pleasure to speak in this debate respond to the first Labour Budget in 14 year , deliver by the first ever female Chancellor of the Exchequer . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Chancellor on make history today . in July , the country elect Labour to fix the foundation of our country and put we on a path towards national renewal , and that be what this Budget do . the Chancellor be not duck the big decision or slap stick plaster on the problem ; instead , she be front up to the challenge and take long - term decision in the interest of Britain . my constituent vote for change , and with this Budget they will see a Government who be on their side — on the side of work people — pull up their sleeve to deliver the change that they vote for . I be delighted to see the Prime Minister visit Birmingham early this week , where he set out his desire to put our city at the centre of the Government ' s plan for growth . grow our economy be the only sustainable way in which to fund the public service on which we all rely . I thank the Chancellor for the many excellent announcement in her speech . we have already hear a lot of bluster from the opposition , play silly game with semantic over the definition of a work person , but it could not be clear whose side this government be on . may I remind conservative Members that the last Parliament be the first in modern history in which living standard fall ? they leave an economy of high taxis , low growth and low wage . public service be on the floor , and we have have a " pay more , get less " doom loop of stagnation and decline . under the Conservatives , the very basic of what one need to live a good life — a safe and affordable place to live , money in one ' s pocket , and the security of strong public service that be there when need — be all rip away . first , austerity strip more than £ 1 billion from Birmingham over a decade . then we have the Conservatives ' botch Brexit deal . finally , they crash the economy under Liz Truss . the Tory record leave we with slow economic growth , nearly 8 million people stick on NHS waiting list , a housing crisis , with 24 , 000 people on Birmingham ' s housing register , crumble school and hospital , stagnant wage , rise living cost , and limited job growth , with young people and graduate face few employment opportunity for the job of the future . worse still , under the last government , people lose faith in the fundamental promise of this country that the next generation should do well than the last . they lose trust that politician be able to take tough decision for the long term , and to put the country before their own political skin . the " here today , go tomorrow " culture of broken promise damage people ' s faith in politic , but with this budget we can begin the patient work of rebuild our country , because we have a Prime Minister and a Chancellor who understand that we be elect to serve . the people of our great country finally have a Government who be prepared to take tough decision and get on with the job of clean up the mess leave by the conservative party . we will invest in our NHS after 14 year of decline . we will make fair choice on tax , spending and welfare . we will protect work people by not increase national insurance , the basic , high and additional rate of income tax , or vat , just as we promise . we bring a record - break £ 63 billion of private investment into Britain at our international investment summit this month . that be a vote of confidence in this Government . we have £ 500 million of new investment in battery storage , which will create the job of the future in Birmingham . today , the Chancellor have confirm a change to the fiscal rule to break the low - investment , low - growth cycle under the previous Government . that be a decision to secure Britain ' s long - term future . it will put muscle behind the Government ' s industrial strategy so that we can invest in the industry of the future in partnership with the private sector , and create revenue to fund the public service that our constituent expect and deserve . the question have always be whether to invest or decline . the Conservatives can choose decline , but we choose investment . the truth be that the average person in the west midland be £ 4 , 320 poor than they would have be have the economy grow since 2010 at the same rate it do under the last Labour Government . that be why I heartily welcome the Chancellor ' s decision to increase the national minimum wage , which provide a £ 1 , 400 boost to full - time equivalent pay for over 45 , 000 people in Birmingham alone . University Hospitals Birmingham , which be in my constituency , be the large trust in the country , so I thank the Chancellor for announce funding to support the delivery of 2 million extra NHS operation , scan and appointment a year in order to cut waiting list across England . I can not describe how much that mean to not just NHS staff , whose morale have be grind into a fine dust over the last 14 year , but people throughout my constituency . some of my constituent have die while wait for treatment , and I know of one child who lose her sight while wait for an appointment . a healthy economy depend on the health of the country . under the last government , nearly 3 million working - age people be out of work or long - term sick — a british record . that be why I be pleased to see the announcement of £ 240 million for local service , to help people back into work . skill England will map the job that be need and the pathway to opportunity . some £ 30 million will be spend on primary school breakfast club , which will help child to get a nutritious start to their day and take the pressure off parent who want to get out to work . the confirmation of £ 1 . 8 billion to support the expansion of government - fund childcare be extremely good news for hundred of young family in my constituency , especially give that more than half of our child ' s centre in Birmingham be close under the Tories . family will be far well off with Labour . I appreciate that the Chancellor have have to make some extremely tough choice in this Budget to get the public finance back in order . the £ 22 billion black hole be the tip of the iceberg after the last 14 year , but it be no less appalling . the OBR have today reveal an absolutely shocking litany of mismanagement and failure , include spend the reserve three time over , waste hundred of million of pound on the Rwanda gimmick and billion on asylum hotel , prop up fail train company , and unfunded spending commitment . so will the Conservatives please spare we some of their faux outrage about tax ? they raise the tax burden to its high level since the second world war , they know full well that public service have to be pay for and they hide the £ 22 billion black hole from the public . how do they expect to pay for that ? they should have some shame , frankly . this government be fix the Conservatives ' mess and protect work people ' s payslip as they do it . our announcement today will make a difference . we be invest billion to get Britain building , make business rate fair to protect our high street , give certainty to business on tax , support frontline policing level , provide funding to local government and £ 1 billion for SEND provision , protect the pension triple lock and find money for pothole — I could go on . some thing will of course take time , but these decision be the reason we can have confidence that the Britain we be build will be build on something solid , not on sand . with this Budget , this Government have return stability to our economy . it have reinforce the role of the OBR , and it will make sure that we can never , ever again have a repeat of the reckless mini - Budget that send mortgage through the roof . we be back business by release investment in sector with potential to grow , include rail and road , green technology , green hydrogen and gigafactorie . we be invest in our public service , include our NHS , early year and affordable housing , to ensure that we be ready to face the challenge of the next decade in an increasingly uncertain world . this be a Budget to deliver on the promise of change . it be a Budget that will fix the foundation of our economy , invest in our future , get the NHS back on its foot and rebuild Britain . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Birmingham Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) . it be also an honour and a pleasure , after 14 year , to be able to rise as a free man — free to speak on the Opposition Benches liberate from the tyranny of the Whips ' handout that be be so beautifully read from the Labour Benches , and from the tyranny of desperate ambition to get on to the Front Bench . I want to speak today , after 14 year on and off the Front Bench , about the state of the public finance . I shall speak much more in sorrow than in anger , not to score party political point but to share reflection on the real depth of the crisis this country face in our structural deficit and the challenge that this Chancellor , this country and this Parliament face in tackle it . as a former Minister for life science , for fusion , for quantum and for space , I be delighted to have be elect by , I think , the House to the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . I be also chair of the parliamentary and scientific committee — the old all - party group — and chair of the APPG on science and technology in agriculture . I be also proudly and gladly pleased to declare my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be try to repair my finance — I carry too much debt , like this country — by work with some great british company to help they to raise money in the international market and to grow . that be what this country have to do to get itself out of debt as well . I want to say three thing this afternoon : something about the real nature of the crisis in our public finance ; something about why I so deeply believe the innovation economy be the only way to get we out of this doom loop spiral of structural deficit and debt ; and something about my poor constituent in Mid Norfolk and the effect of this Budget on they . tempt though it be to stand up and accuse the Labour Government of cause all the ill of the world , and to take no responsibility for they , I want to do the opposite and suggest that this Parliament and this country have for the last 25 year be fail to grapple seriously enough with the deep nature of structural deficit in our broken public finance . I remember , when I be newly elect in 2010 , have a brilliant briefing from Robert Chote and Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , and have the structural deficit properly explain to I . that have stay with I , and it be worth share for the benefit of those listen to this debate . traditionally , all government in this country tax and spend . they earn money every year from tax revenue and then spend it . in some year , the economic cycle turn down , so we do not cut spending ; we borrow a bit to maintain our spending and then repay it when the economic cycle turn . occasionally in the cycle , we run deficit . the structural deficit be that bit of the public finance that mean that , even when the economy be grow — even when it be grow at 2 % or 3 % — we be run a deficit , because there be bit of the economy that be constantly swallow more money than we be capable of earn . when we take office in 2010 , debt interest be effectively the fourth big Department of state . we have a serious crisis on our hand . look back , if we be honest , new Labour do not pay enough attention to deep reform of our public finance during the " Cool Britannia " year of Gordon Brown and Tony Blair . in the 2007 - 08 crash , that Government unleash £ 700 billion of borrowing and quantitative easing . we can argue about whether that be the right thing to do , but it drive huge asset price inflation and leave we with huge debt . the coalition try to get we out of that debt with austerity , on which I think the country be with we for the first two or three year before feel that we have overdo it . yes , we have that crash , the disruption of Brexit , a terrible once - in - a - century pandemic and a war in Ukraine — we have £ 700 billion of QE , £ 400 billion of pandemic relief and £ 40 billion of cost of live relief — but we have effectively come back to where we be in 2010 , face a structural deficit and flash red light in the public finance . I call it the bonfire in the basement of the british economy . even when the economy be grow , even when we see Canary Wharf on the drive from Norfolk , the unseen bonfire in the basement eat away at the economy ' s resilience and sustainability . that should worry all of we involve in public policy , and I have a sneaking feeling that the public understand this . the people I speak to on the doorstep during the election be not economist or season political observer but , after observe successive government fail , their common sense tell they that there be a deep problem in the state . I suggest that much of the political volatility in recent year come from an inability , include in my own party , to be honest about the scale of the problem . I think the Brexit revolution be drive by deep anger and resentment not just at Brussels , but at the failure of this country ' s political economy . People outside the golden triangle feel leave behind by their own Government , their own country and their own model of growth . the lecture I receive in 2010 from Robert Chote and Paul Johnson be just as relevant today . four thing drive the structural deficit . the first be debt interest . there be an inflation surge because of the war in Ukraine , but we have be lucky that the market have generally not punish we for borrow too much . Second be welfare bill . the coalition implement very painful reform to stop the rise of the welfare bill . we do not cut the welfare budget ; we just stop its rise . Third be public sector pension . again , there be some very painful reform , not to cut the cost but to prevent they from boom and bankrupt the public finance . those be all significant issue , but the big one , by far , be healthcare . the structural cost of healthcare in our age economy , with increasingly expensive medicine and an NHS design for the 1940 rather than the 21st century , be in danger of bankrupt itself and the public finance . I be on record as say , and I will repeat it , that the Health Secretary ' s honesty be a breath of fresh air . the NHS have not be break by a lack of Tory funding — we have all pour money into the NHS — but the problem be that the model be not fit for the 21st century . much more in sorrow than in anger , I suggest that we need to start this debate by be profoundly honest about the real nature of the problem . the truth be that we can not cut , borrow , tax or spend our way out of a debt crisis , and successive government have try and fail . I speak as a card - carry supporter of industrial strategy , of increase R & D spending and of get the country out of its current spiral and into a high - growth model . I want to cheer much of this Budget , and perhaps there will be more to cheer when we read the Red Book tomorrow , but I be worried . I thank the hon . Gentleman , my fellow member of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , for give way . he know that R & D funding be vital to drive innovation , productivity and future growth and prosperity . do he agree that we should welcome the commitment to protect core R & D funding , as well as the specific investment in high - tech area such as automotive , aerospace and clean energy ? do he agree that the Committee look forward to examine the detail of the Budget to see its impact on science and technology in every Department and across the country ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention and for her chairmanship of our Select Committee . I welcome bit of the Budget , include the £ 20 billion commitment . my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , the former Prime Minister , and I secure an historic commitment to raise R & D investment to £ 20 billion when he be Chancellor , and I hear the government ringfence that amount today . I support the notion of an industrial strategy , as long as that do not involve earnest committee of Whitehall mandarin far away from the innovator , entrepreneur and people on the ground . I support the wealth fund and the Mansion House reform , but I have sincere concern about the message that today ' s Budget send about innovator , entrepreneur , wealth creator and business . they be the people who turn great science into great business that drive growth . let I talk about why the innovation economy be key . if we want to get out of debt , the innovation economy provide the only model of growth that will deliver the productivity increase we so urgently need . it will reduce our reliance on the low - wage labour that have be completely build into the service economy , which have dominate this country since the 1980 and since the Tony Blair and Gordon Brown year of " Cool Britannia " . that model be base on let London boom and pull in cheap labour , which drive an immigration crisis that my party get itself twist up about and that put huge pressure on our public service . we have to get away from that model of growth , and move to a model of growth lead by innovation , with high skilled job , much great efficiency and productivity . sector be grow in this country that could attract billion of pound of investment from all over the world . there be a wall of capital to invest in agritech , clean tech , fusion energy , satellite manufacturing — I could go on — and all the sector where we be strong . that be the part of the economy that we should focus on , and it be the only bit of the economy that drive genuine regeneration . the sustainable levelling up be happen in Glasgow through the satellite manufacture economy , in Edinburgh through quantum computing , in Newcastle through datum , in Leeds through digital health and in Norwich through agritech . the R & D economy be the good mechanism for drive that level up and regeneration , and create the opportunity society we all need . we can not have an innovation economy without an opportunity society . I would go as far as say that we can not have an opportunity society without an innovation economy . that be key if we want to tackle the problem of debt . do the hon . Gentleman agree that support skill and employment be key to create the sort of economic growth he talk about ? get young people on a pathway to training and receive the skill they need to secure job be critical . I completely agree and the hon . Lady make an important point . I be the Minister that cover that agenda . the science superpower piece be about our be a big player in the world , attract billion into the country and use our science and research to solve global challenge . our science ecosystem be not yet set up to do that — that be not even what it think it be there to do . the innovation economy piece be about use the science engine to drive economic advantage in this country through the catapult network , great industrial R & D , investment in skill , ensure we train the workforce for tomorrow ' s industry , procurement and regulation , and support innovation cluster . skill be key to that . in that context , a Budget be an opportunity , but the Chancellor have miss the fact that to drive the innovation economy , we need entrepreneur , innovator , and people who will take a risk and create a business . that do not happen in the Treasury or , dare I say it , in my beloved old Department for Science , Innovation and Technology . it do not happen in Whitehall . our job be to create the condition for innovation to flourish . I fear that the signal that have go out from today ' s Budget be that although we have have a change of Government , we have not have a change in the core narrative . it feel to I as though Treasury orthodoxy have be reassert . we will balance the book by make cut , tax exist wealth and chase hard and hard after growth , but what we will see be growth down , inflation up , borrow up , mortgage up and tax up . we need to send a big signal that this country be open for business . the hon . member for Birmingham Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) make an interesting point about the global investment summit , which we set up and which be now call the international investment summit . it be good news that that money be come in , but I have to say that , in 30 year in the innovation economy , I have never see so many people decide that they be go to sell their business and leave the country than I have over the past three or four month . the Government think that they be play a clever political trick of roll the pitch , so that , on Budget day , the news would not be so politically damaging . however , they have misunderstood how mobile capital and talent be in the global economy . we need people to want to come to this country . often they want — I do not — to put their child into independent school . they want to make money here . they want to build business here . we need to attract they . we have no right to just assume that they will come . if we be to build an innovation economy , we need a tax regime that be fair . no one want this to be the home of russian money - laundering , international criminal and abuse of the non - dom system , but we have to build an economy that be attractive for innovator . we also need to well connect the City to our science , research , technology and innovation sector . it be shocking to I , and it should be to this House , that , in 1997 , 73 % of the £ 3 trillion - odd hold in the City — our money that be invest in pension — go into equity , 53 % of which go into UK equity . that figure today be just under 4 % . in the past 25 year , we have see the most extraordinary globalisation , digitalisation and indexation of the City . the City have not be encourage by successive government , and have not itself be invest actively in the productive business of this country . we have see a hollowing out in the City of its commitment to support british industry and british company , and it be an accelerate model . in every month over the past four year , we have see a net outflow of investment in UK equity . I hugely support the work that the fantastic Parliamentary Secretary , his Majesty ' s Treasury , the hon . member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) be do on take forward our Mansion House reform . we must well connect our capital in the City of London to our productive innovation economy . I be not for a minute suggest that everyone ' s pension should go into one biotech company — quite the opposite — but if we connect some of that money with our innovation economy , we will unlock ten of billion of private money — our money — to drive growth in this country . at the moment , we incubate world - class business and then watch the australian and canadian pension fund buy they , or american investor buy they out and float they . I worry about today ' s inheritance tax and capital gain tax announcement . we will find that the devil be in the detail when we read the Red Book tomorrow . if we kill the engine that drive the people who create the company of tomorrow , we will end up with a big science investment and not enough actual innovation in the economy . to close , I want speak briefly about the issue in Mid Norfolk . it be a rural , sparse , disconnected place — it be something of a backwater — in the middle of East Anglia with poor traditional access . I be afraid that today ' s Budget will hit the two key group in my constituency . many pensioner have be hit by the winter fuel change , and huge damage have be inflict on the small business on the high street , include the hospitality business and the pub . they be look for relief — not just a penny off beer duty but real relief for business out in rural area . the agricultural property relief hit will damage the rural economy of Mid Norfolk . I hope that when we read the Red Book we will see some well news , but my fear be that we have a change in Government , but all too little change in our economic orthodoxy . just like a company , this country be run out of cash . we need to unlock much more innovative and enterprise model of economic growth . today ' s Budget be when we start to turn this country around , rebuild prosperity and rekindle the belief that thing can get well . with this Budget , we begin to rebuild hope . I become an economist and then a Member of Parliament to help set Budgets in this Chamber , because what we spend , tax and invest determine our future . in my teenage year , I have the privilege of grow up under a Labour Government , and I see great Labour Chancellors , from this Dispatch Box , deliver Budgets that build a well Britain — a Britain where wage grow , where hospital be build and where poverty fall . More than that , I see a Budget and the creation of a country where hope and graft be reward , renew and refresh by a Labour Government who deliver on their promise . but then I become an adult , and I grow up under a Conservative Government : a Government who cut investment and create a no - growth economy with the bad fall in wage since napoleonic time ; who cut home insulation and block clean energy , leave we dependent on fossil fuel supply by dictator like Putin ; who block house building so that young people in my generation see house price soar while their wage only fall ; and who cut defence and weaken our armed force . we on the Government Benches understand that amateur talk tactic and professional talk logistic . that be what this Conservative Government leave we with and give we for my entire adult life — until now . win the last election mean that this Labour Government can rebuild our nation ' s prosperity and rebuild a country where wage rise and thing do get well , with investment in our school so that kid can learn more today and earn more tomorrow , investment in our NHS so that temporary illness do not stop we from work permanently , investment in clean energy so that we get bill down for good , investment in our police so that we can go to the shop without fear — and investment in home for my generation ; mum and dad , we love you , but it ' s time for the kid to move out . rebuild this nation brick by brick be hard and patient work . we will not notice how each brick change this country , as we do not notice the inch that make up a mile , but slowly , surely , certainly , as we invest in this nation , we will create a more prosperous Britain , where each of we can and will thrive . some of we , include I , will measure that progress in number and graph , but what we create will be define by so much more : a country define by hope and pride , where tomorrow be well than today ; and a country build by a Labour Government upon Budgets deliver by a Labour Chancellor . unlike the Father of the House , the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , I have not sit through 45 Budgets , or however many he mention — I be far , far too young for that — but I have sit through a number of Budgets where , after a change of Government , Chancellors and Prime Ministers have seek to blacken the people they inherit the economy from . when I play football , we use to call it " get your retaliation in first " ; I think that we have see a bit of that . we have it under the last government as well , of course . for about three year , I have to listen to George Osborne tell we that the previous Government have not fix his roof while the sun be shine , and I suspect that for about the next three year we will have to sit and listen to the black hole that the present Government have inherit — and so it will go on as people try to justify the situation they find themselves in and indeed some of the failure of Government , year after year . when listen to debate like this , I suspect that there be point that go over the head of most of the population . billion be throw around — " we ' re go to spend billion on this , and we be go to take billion out of that " — but that do not immediately resonate with the population . what do resonate , as we have see in the last three month , be see figure that enable they quickly to identify the impact on they of the policy be introduce . I suspect one reason that there have be such reaction against the withdrawal of the winter fuel payment be that people can understand . they might not understand when the Government take £ 3 billion off a departmental Budget , but they understand when they take £ 300 off they in the middle of winter , when they be struggle with their fuel bill . I wonder whether the Chancellor have learn that lesson already . I be relieve when she announce that she be not go to increase fuel duty . I suspect that one of the reason be that she know that an increase would have be easily understand by people who go to a petrol station to fill their car up and see another 7p on the price of petrol per litre . if she have learn that lesson , I be glad that cost will not go up for my constituent , many of whom live in rural area and depend on their car . in Northern Ireland , an awful lot of our supply come in by road . one thing I be fairly sure of , look at the broad picture that the Government have try to paint , be that the Budget , and the behaviour of the Government in the lead - up to it , will increase the exist cynicism towards politic and politician . during the election , the Labour party say , " we have a fully fund programme . we know what the figure be . we ' re not go to increase your taxis . " then suddenly there be a black hole . after paint the black hole , what do the Government do ? they immediately start spend stack of money . they give wage increase , set up quango to deliver net zero , and spend money on carbon capture and storage . billion of pound be suddenly announce against a background of : " we have no money , and we ' re go to have to put up taxis . " labour ' s promise be that no taxis would be impose on work people . the Government try to wriggle out of that . who be these work people ? who will be affect ? I will not go through all the iteration that there have be of " work people " . the fact be , as a result of the Budget , people know that they will pay more tax and their wage will be affect . I notice Labour Members shake their head ; they should look at the report from the Office for Budget Responsibility . what prediction do it make ? it predict that disposable income will fall in real term , real earning will be reduce , and interest rate on Government bond , which be already expect to go up , will go up far — all of which have an impact on people ' s livelihood . the Government promise that they would not fiddle the figure and would be dead straight with people . yet immediately — the Chancellor talk about it today — they have start to redefine borrowing . it do not matter what we call borrowing . it do not matter whether we put it in one barrel or another ; at the end of the day , borrow money have to be pay back , and interest have to be pay on it . it do not matter how we classify it ; it be fiddle the figure to try to pretend that borrowing be not borrow , and it have consequence for the economy and for individual . there be some thing in the Budget that I welcome . as the chairman of the loan charge and taxpayer fairness all - party parliamentary group , I welcome the fact that there will be a review of the loan charge . it will be interesting to see what its term be ; they be not outline in the Red Book . we will have to tease that out from the Government . the all - party group would be more than happy to talk about what the term should be , and what issue need to be address . I also welcome the fact that the suspend city deal , one of which would have affect the periphery of my constituency , have be restore . be a cynic , I wonder whether they be stop so that they could be give back , and we could all be grateful that we have get something back as a result of our lobbying . I know that there be extensive lobbying by council , by the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , whose intervention I welcome , by the Secretary of State , and by the political party in Northern Ireland . those city deal be important because , as we hear from the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) , one way of grow our economy and make it more robust be to spend on research and development and innovation . in both city deal , there be a strong element of research and development , and innovation hub , and there have already be interest from the private sector because of the money that be go to be spend on they . I also welcome the additional money under the Barnett formula . Northern Ireland have be short - change under the funding formula for many year , because it be not base on need as it be in other part of the United Kingdom . I note that it will , in future , be base on need , and that welcome change will help the Executive in the delivery of public service in Northern Ireland . so many of my constituent have be affect by infected blood . now that the funding commitment be there , I hope that there will be no slowdown in the delivery of that funding to those who have be infect . I have concern . about half of my constituency be rural and make up of small farm . the inheritance tax , and especially the ending of the agricultural property relief , will have huge implication . not only do we have small farm , but the average age of farmer be 58 , so many of they be come to the point where the farm will be pass on . they be not cash - rich , so how will they pay the tax ? they will simply have to sell the land , break up the farm and making be less viable . that will have a huge impact on the agricultural community in Northern Ireland . the Government have make a mistake on that . it will impact on small farm and food security . I hope that there will be great examination of that . Most of our many business in Northern Ireland be small and medium - sized business . the Government have place further burden on they in the Budget , not least in the tax on job and the cost of job through national insurance contribution , the threshold be lower , and the percentage that business will have to pay . I believe that that will add to the difficulty that business be already experience . I have already mention this last point . the borrowing that the Government will undertake will have — and be already have — an immediate effect on interest rate . the OBR point out that the yield on Government bond be already increase and will continue to increase . that will feed through to ordinary mortgage payer and to people who have to borrow money for their business . that will , in turn , have an impact on growth . in fact , the OBR indicate that , as the next four year go on , growth rate will fall — they will be low at the end of this period than they be currently — yet this be mean to be a Budget for growth . I notice member cheer the Government as the Chancellor make her announcement today . I hope that they be still cheer in a year ' s time ; I hope that they be still cheer in two year ' time . I want to see people cheer — I do not want to see the country do badly just to make a political point — but it be important that we be honest about the warn sign and do not build the expectation that this Budget will deliver all the good thing that the Government talk about . we will certainly examine and hold the Government to account over future year on whether the policy that they have announce today will deliver what be promise to people . rise — member will be aware that this debate be very oversubscribed . in order that people can help each other , I be impose an informal seven - minute time limit . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) . I hope that in a few year ' time I will be join he in celebrate growth rate that exceed the target objective . what a tour de force by the new Chancellor ! if only we have have a general election back in the summer and autumn of 2022 . there have never be a more important Budget in recent year . after more than a decade of decay , this Budget must herald a decade of renewal . as the previous Labour Government do from 1997 to 2010 , this Government must rebuild our country by found a strong , more diverse and more balanced economy . as the Chancellor have spell out , we will do so by invest in our country , grow the economy and attract private investment . only then will we be able to restore the public service that the public need and expect . this Budget sit in stark contrast to the 14 year of failure we have just suffer . it take we beyond the absolute poverty , the waiting list in our hospital for surgery and cancer treatment , the decay in our crumble school , the teacher retention crisis , and an economy that have be virtually stagnant , boast terrible productivity and income inequality . those be the dreadful metric of the last government . the Institute for Fiscal Studies say that UK economic activity be 36 % low than it would have be if it have continue to grow in line with the 1997 to 2008 trend . that be a low level than the eurozone or the United States , and when measure in term of productivity , the late 10 - year average of growth in potential gdp per worker be zero , the second low level in the past 150 year . it be an economy still reel from the event of Truss ' s kamikaze Budget that send mortgage soar and price skyrocket . turn to inequality , the UK now have the ninth most unequal income in the OECD . Wealth inequality be even more glaring , with the top fifth of the country own 63 % of its wealth , while the bottom fifth hold only 0 . 5 % . that do not just impact the amount of money in people ' s pocket : it impact the economy , too . that be why I believe we must address the imbalance of regressive flat taxis . council tax must be address in the future , and I be glad that the Chancellor have close tax loophole and rebalance the burden of payment , place it on those who can afford it . at the same time , this Budget will ensure that hard work pay off by raise the minimum wage . I welcome this — it be strike that many state in the US already pay a high relative minimum wage than we in the UK do . hard - press household face the cost of living crisis will also welcome today ' s Budget . the fact that we have freeze fuel duty be important , as be not have any increase in income tax , personal national insurance or vat , as well as the penny off the pint . those measure will all be welcome by constituent of mine in Warwick and Leamington . however , it be through investment that we can grow and rebalance our economy . strikingly , 14 year of the Conservatives ' economic policy have lead to our have the low level of public and private investment in any G7 economy . that be why I be proud to be stand on the Government side of the House discuss this Labour Budget , because we understand the synergy between invest in people and invest in the economy . we have already put £ 7 billion into a sovereign wealth fund , we have set up GB Energy , and we will be establish Skills England to ensure we have the skill for the next decade . the investment summit a few week ago announce £ 63 billion — an extraordinary achievement . that investment be desperately need , as be point out by Gus o ' Donnell , Jim O ' Neill , Mariana Mazzucato and Mark Carney . they argue the case for loosen the fiscal rule , state that " the current fiscal framework have help to drive this short term think and create an inbuilt bias against investment " . that point be also support by the International Monetary Fund . for year , economist have be call for a radical shake - up of our economy : we need to shift from a consumption - drive economy to an investment - lead one . as such , I welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement of support for vital sector , such as the energy transition and the automotive industry , through the advanced manufacturing plan . the opportunity be huge — that be why the Industrial Strategy Council be so important — so the support announce for green hydrogen , gigafactorie , the life science and the aerospace sector , as well as the £ 2 billion promise for electric vehicle in the UK , be so important . we need investment in our school , our infrastructure and our NHS . I be particularly pleased to see the additional investment go into our NHS , because we can only become wealthy as a nation if we be healthy as a nation . if we do not address our NHS , we will worsen people ' s life , but this will also have a significant impact on our economy . in 2023 , the number of people economically inactive because of long - term sickness rise to over 2 . 5 million . I would love to talk about productivity , Madam Deputy Speaker , but perhaps I will do it another time . however , a London School of Economics report last year find that UK productivity be low than that of France , Germany and the United States . that be why we need investment , and why we need to address the flexible labour law in this country that have lead or contribute to low than average investment . I be conscious of time , but I welcome all the measure that my right hon . friend the Chancellor have announce , particularly on address the issue of business rate , which be so important for our town centre up and down the country . I welcome the investment in local government — the additional money for pothole , for example — but also the support for family , carer and child with SEND . this Budget be about stability , certainty and credibility , and about invest in our economy , which be so important because , above all , we need to fix the foundation of our economy . the Chancellor have set out the plan to deliver that change , as be promise to the british people , and I commend the choice she have make . I think we have to give credit to the Chancellor for a Budget that , in political presentation , be very clever . the SNP have have an absolutely rotten day , and the decision to put money into pothole be clever . the fuel duty freeze be very welcome , especially for those live in rural part of our country . but for I , the big one be of course the 1p off a pint off draught beer . I have work out that it will save I over £ 1 a week , so I be particularly thrill about that . I sit listen to the number think that this Budget be economically illiterate . I do not know who be do the sum — perhaps it be the right hon . member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) — but the sum do not work . the market now agree with I , because just in the last couple of hour we have see a very substantial spike in gilt yield . we be not yet quite back to the mini - Budget of 2022 , but clearly people be say that this be not go to work . even more concerning , I suppose , be that the new head of the Office for Value for Money , David Goldstone , serve for many year on the board of HS2 , which I would suggest be the very opposite of value for money . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hope this point of order will be relevant . can you confirm that it be relevant ? it be relevant , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . Gentleman mention my right hon . friend the Member for Hackney North and Stoke Newington ( Ms Abbott ) , but have he warn she that he would be mention she in the Chamber ? I thank the hon . member for the point of order . however , that be not a point of order ; it be a courtesy of the House . nice try ! I be just gently tease , that be all . we hear " invest , invest , invest " at the start of the Budget statement , and I think , yes , that be absolutely what we need — not just from the big multinational that come to smart conference , but equally from hundred of thousand of people put their own risk capital into start - up and new business . but no , this " invest , invest , invest " be go to be do by the Chancellor on our behalf . not only be she a top economist at the Bank of England , but she be now go to be the fund manager of the nation , invest money and try to pick winner . I would suggest that the last time government attempt to invest money and pick winner , back in the 1970 , it end very badly indeed . the hon . Gentleman talk about investment in our country and in business , but I just question whether he would prefer to have investment from our government , or investment from maybe the russian Government . maybe one or two member of the House ought simply to grow up , but there we be — it ' s a bit sad . I have work in private business , and I do think pick winner be wrong . I think we leave that to the free market , and we let people either make money or lose money . frankly , if they do their dough , well , that ' s just the way these thing work . any business employ five or more people have be hammer today . I have set up and run company , but nobody on the Government Front Bench have ever work in private business . none of they understand what genuine risk capital be . from what I can make out , our Business Secretary have never even have a job . have you ever have a job ? I have have plenty of job — well , apart from be in the European Parliament , which doesn ' t really count , obviously . what be dismal about this Budget be the growth forecast . if the ambition of our Chancellor be that in four year ' time growth should be 1 . 5 % , that be very bad news for everybody , particularly because it take no account of the rise in population that will happen through legal immigration . it basically mean a rise of 0 % . nobody have even mention the fact that gross domestic product per capita — wealth per capita — have be fall consistently nearly every quarter for the past two year . the big our population become the poor we be become , and we must wake up to that reality . the big picture be that we be in decline . we be get poor . there be no £ 22 billion black hole — that be nonsense . it be £ 2 . 7 trillion . our debt repayment be £ 90 billion a year , and from all the figure I have see today , that will be bad in five year ' time than it be today . we need a complete change of culture . we need to start say that success be a good thing , and make money be a great thing . People become rich be something we should encourage . we have to change our culture of work . there be this idea , " oh yes , work from home , do a four - day week , get your work - life balance right " — well actually , why do we not say to young people that hard work be a good thing ? hard work be the only way that anybody succeed individually , and the only way that we will have a chance as a country to turn any of this around . rise — no , please sit down — honestly , you ' ve have a go . we be in much deep trouble than anybody on either Front Bench dare to admit . that be a reality we should all face . we have a Labour party that could not define what a woman be or what a work person be , and after today I be pretty convinced that it can not define what economic growth be . I would like to say it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , but honesty forbid I and I will move on . this be a long - await Budget . in Wales we have wait 14 year for a Budget from a Labour Government in Westminster who will finally work with , not against , the Senedd in Cardiff , and provide support for the people of Wales . I be so proud that this be the first Budget to be deliver by a female Chancellor — the first female Chancellor ever in the UK . that be fantastic , and I be proud to have be able to listen to she deliver her speech . since I be first elect back in 2019 , hundred of constituent have email and write to I about the effect of previous Conservative Budgets , most noticeably after the disastrous mini - Budget by the former Prime Minister Liz Truss and Kwasi Kwarteng , the fail Chancellor . one constituent write to I : " everyday be become a struggle " . another person have be live off less than £ 2 over the weekend and come into my office say that they be " very low on food and … overdrawn . " as Members of Parliament , where we be able to help we do , but too often we have reach the end of what support we can offer too soon . I welcome this Budget , which will help work people after 14 year of constant deterioration in their living standard . we must be under no illusion : the Budgets of past government be Budgets to enrich the rich and to impoverish ordinary people , not help they . the situation that this Labour Government inherit as a result be not one that we want , but it be the one we be leave with . we be face with this black hole , and we must face up to it . this new Labour Government promise change from the failure of the past 14 year , and this Budget confirm our commitment to do just that . the Government have already take step to fix the foundation of the economy by shift power towards work people with the Employment Rights Bill , by address the rail rip - off by bring train company into public ownership and by introduce a Bill to combat the Tory sewage crisis . the Conservatives crash the economy , send mortgage through the roof . they waste billion of pound of taxpayer ' money on their fail asylum system , prop up private rail company that be not deliver and facilitate dodgy covid contract , leave the £ 22 billion black hole in the nation ' s finance and public service on their knee . let we not forget that the £ 22 billion be a recur amount , so it need to be address right away . we can not afford to wait any long . after all their dither and delay , the Conservatives call an election and then run away . all of that mean there be choice to be make . the first choice that this Government have have to make be to be open and honest with the electorate . all of we have feel the effect of 14 year of Tory Government . they be evident in every aspect of our life . as my right hon . friend the Chancellor have make clear today , the true scale of the problem do not become clear until very recently , when she actually have the key to no . 11 . the second choice that this Government have have to make be to be responsible in how to go about fill the £ 22 billion black hole create by the Tories . the third choice be to truly acknowledge the parlous state of our public service and the scale of work that must be do to address that . crumble building , poor staff morale and recruitment and retention problem be present throughout our whole public sector . school , hospital and the brilliant people who sustain our education and health system be cry out for the investment they need and deserve . after 14 year of austerity combine with a post - covid inflation crisis , we have see a decline in living standard and a soar cost of living , all while private profit increase and the wealthy become wealthy still . the Prime Minister be therefore right to insist that tax rise should not be levy on work people , but that those with the broad shoulder should bear the cost — the very wealthy and the large corporation that have register soar profit . as we promise in our manifesto , we will not raise national insurance , vat or income tax . just as we pledge in the election campaign , Labour will protect work people — people like my constituent in Newport West and Islwyn . this Budget have deliver for Wales for the first time in a generation . Wales vote for change at the general election , and change have begin by sustainably invest in Wales ' s future . as Chair of the Welsh Affairs Committee , I welcome the £ 1 . 7 billion of new money for Wales through the Barnett formula and through direct spending . most notably , I welcome the substantial increase in Barnett consequential for the Welsh Labour Government to put towards day - to - day spending on public service , such as the NHS . I welcome the money to support steel community , both through the transition board and by protect the levelling - up funding in Port Talbot and elsewhere . I welcome the £ 25 million to make coal tip safe — I be so glad that our Government have step in so quickly to do that important work . I welcome the £ 430 million in funding for community across Wales and investment zone to drive economic growth . I welcome the money for rail project with the promise of a sustainably fund future . in Wales , we be see the large real - term settlement since devolution begin in 1999 . Labour be create the condition for long - term economic growth , so that people can finally enjoy the proceed of their hard work and see an actual increase in living standard . Change have begin . with this Budget , this Labour Government be invest in Britain ' s future so that we can protect work people , fix the NHS and rebuild our country . this Budget show the difference that have two Labour government work together make for Wales . I thank the Chancellor for her drive , determination and honesty , and I look forward to she remain in her post for many year to come . it be with sadness that I rise to speak in this debate on the Budget of broken promise . during the election campaign , I hear from many constituent about how they feel regard their disillusionment with our political system . they feel that Westminster seem to talk only about itself , do not represent they and at time treat they like fool . this Budget damage our democracy in the contempt with which it treat our voter . for the past few month , my constituent have be hear from the Government that everything be go to be awful and this be go to be a punishment Budget , and they have be await it with trepidation . they have hear that when the Labour party come into power , it discover thing it be not expect , so it have to announce winter fuel payment cut — despite the fact that it have be talk about do so in this place for some time . Labour have say that it have to make difficult decision but that it will stick to all its promise , but — hey ! — it turn out that it can pull out various loophole that it have carefully weave into its manifesto . that be one of the reason why over the past few week we have see this incredible debate about what a " work person " be , which so far have be pure and utter sophistry . it appear that that be what so much of this Budget debate turn on , so what be a work person ? certainly , I would say I be a work person ; people here be work people , for the most part . the majority of my constituent be work people , or have be until they start claim a pension , and that need to be respect . since the Chancellor say that there would be no tax rise on work people , this question have lead to a great degree of confusion as we go through the Budget . be a business owner , or someone who work as a tradesman , not a work person ? ironically , Labour say it want to fix the foundation of the country , but I wonder where it be go to get the tradespeople to do so . how about people who save for their future ? be they not work people ? how about our pensioner ? have they not be work people ? how about people who use the bus ? be they not work people ? thankfully , today I get an email from the TUC , which help clarify who work people be . it point out that the TUC be the one who represent work people . I think our constituent all know that unless they be a trade union member or someone who be dependent on the state , the Labour party do not think they be a work person , and it be come for they . [ interruption . ] well , look at the tax rise . when Government member start digest the Budget — when they look at the impact of an extremely low growth rate over the next few year , the impact on farmer , who will struggle to pass on their farm , and the impact on small business , which we depend on for growth , investment and prosperity — they will regret what have be say today . I be sad that the south - east and Surrey be not really mention . [ interruption . ] Labour Members laugh , but they would do well to consider that Surrey be the big net contributor to the Treasury outside London . the Chancellor would do well to listen to Surrey mps about the investment that we need in local infrastructure so that we can continue to provide money to the economy for the ambition of we all . in my constituency , that mean confirmation of support for the Weybridge health centre rebuild , fix our level crossing and motorway , and rebuild the Magna Carta school . the Government have an opportunity with this Budget , and they have miss it . they have choose duplicity over delivery , politic over pragmatism and sophistry over service . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Runnymede and Weybridge ( Dr Spencer ) , but may I urge some humility give the number of repossession that my constituent in Bradford West experience after a Budget that he support , which lead to a run on the pound ? it be not that long ago that repossession increase , mortgage go up and people be suffer . the party over there think it be quite good to — you know , food bank have become food porn . that happen under his government ' s watch , so maybe there be a need for a little bit of humility . let I say thank you to the Chancellor — the first female Chancellor to stand in this Chamber — for deliver today ' s landmark Budget . I have wait more than 15 Budgets for one from the Labour Benches . it be heartwarme after nine year in opposition have to fight for the basic like school meal for child , and have footballer campaign for it . it be an embarrassment for we as a country when austerity be a political choice that the Conservatives make when they be in government . it be lovely to see the grown - up back in charge , deliver a Budget for the work people of Great Britain . there must be no doubt that the Chancellor ' s task to deliver that be extremely difficult , give the reality of the public finance that we inherit from the Conservatives . today , the Chancellor put forward a plan to turn the tide . she have deliver a Budget that will put money back into the pocket of work people . it be a Budget that will not only save the NHS , but ensure that it remain the pride of our public service for generation to come . it be a Budget that provide for our child and school , give they the education they deserve for a bright future . it be a Budget that invest in infrastructure to rebuild Britain . from the moment the coalition be form follow the general election in May 2010 , the then Prime Minister David Cameron state that his first priority be to " reduce the deficit and restore economic growth . " well , how do that work out ? let I remind the House : by the end of the conservative era , both those priority have fail . UK GDP be now £ 400 billion less than expect in the OBR ' s growth rate forecast when the Conservatives take office in 2010 . when it come to wage , from 2010 to 2014 , earning grow at probably the slow rate in more than 200 year . for my constituent in Bradford , this Budget provide we with infrastructure investment , which I be really grateful for — a huge boost that we need . therefore , I welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement today of funding for upgrade to Bradford Forster Square station and investment in mass transit system for the Bradford tramline , which will redefine the urban journey from Bradford city centre to Leeds city centre . that will improve public space , drive economic growth and ensure fast and more reliable access to essential destination while link key community in between . I will be speak to the Chancellor and the Secretary of State for Transport on the fine detail , but this infrastructure investment be need for Bradford to drive our economic growth . on the flip side , what happen with the Conservatives ? time and again in the 17 statement I sit through they promise Northern Powerhouse Rail and to unlock growth . they promise to level up , and all they do be level down , level down , level down . now , we have the chance to fix all those issue and what they do wrong . our Chancellor and our Government have difficult choice because of Tory failure , but today they deliver . they deliver a pay rise for 3 million worker , the big increase in carer ' s allowance since its introduction and a £ 2 . 3 billion increase in core school budget . they deliver a budget that triple free school breakfast , add £ 1 billion in funding for special educational need and disability , and £ 1 . 4 billion for the school rebuilding programme to provide our child with the school building they need to thrive in education . they deliver to protect the NHS , with an extra £ 22 . 6 billion for day - to - day spending in the NHS , £ 25 . 6 billion over two year to cut waiting time and 40 , 000 extra elective appointment a week — a manifesto promise make true and deliver today . People can have the care and the health protection in the nhs that they deserve . this be unashamedly a Budget for work family and work people , put money in the pocket of the very people who have be let down by 14 year of conservative rule . I welcome this Budget , and I be pleased to see the positive impact it will have on my constituent across Bradford West . Diolch , Dirprwy Lefarydd . today , the Chancellor have the opportunity for a transformative change , but she decide to give with one hand and take with another . Plaid Cymru recognise the terrible financial legacy inherit from the Conservatives , but this be not the way to fix it . there be no fair funding formula for Wales , no sign of the £ 4 billion - worth of High Speed 2 consequential owe to Wales , no devolution of the Crown Estate and no u - turn on the winter fuel allowance or an end to the cruel two - child benefit cap . the Government could have try to spread the pain with a big contribution by the very rich through a wealth tax , for example . instead , the increase to national insurance will punish business and make it hard for they to create well - pay job . the Budget document suggest that there be an allowance for public sector organisation . I would appreciate some clarity from the Minister as to what that allowance entail and what constitute a public sector organisation . crucially , austerity will continue for some of the most vulnerable in our society , through fail to help the 540 , 000 pensioner in Wales to keep warm this winter and refuse to bring an end to the two - child cap in Wales , where a third of our child live in poverty . there be little in the Budget that fix the foundation for Wales . the uplift to the block grant will not rebalance Wales ' s fiscal settlement . Welsh council alone face a £ 559 million budget gap in 2025 - 26 . I be afraid that the change to rule on inheritance will seriously threaten Welsh family farm , which be the backbone of our rural economy . in opposition , the Labour party support Plaid Cymru ' s call for the £ 4 billion owe to Wales in rail fund . it criticise the previous Government for fail to give clarity on the Wylfa project in my constituency , yet in government it be repeat the same error . we welcome that Westminster be finally begin to address coal tip safety . this be a long - stand issue that pre - date devolution . this be an important first step in tackle its environmental impact , but community will continue to suffer without meaningful effort to create job and prosperity . I urge both the Welsh and UK government to develop a strategy that not only address safety and environmental concern , but breathe life into local economy . that would be true , last co - operation . Plaid Cymru will scrutinise every line of Labour ' s Budget , because Wales deserve more than broken promise . we demand a fair deal . I very much welcome the Chancellor ' s Budget . it be a landmark Budget not just because it be the first Labour Budget in 14 year and the first Budget from a woman Chancellor in over 800 year , but because , as the Father of the House , the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) reference , of the intellectual change it represent . in that change , we be look to enact a significant shift in the mindset of Budgets , from a no - can - do Britain to a can - do Britain ; a Britain where we believe that investing be not simply a waste , but an un - blocker for private sector dynamism and investment of the kind that we so desperately need in Cornwall . I welcome the commitment from the Minister for Industry , my hon . friend the Member for Croydon West ( Sarah Jones ) , to join a roundtable in the new year to meet the most promising industry in Cornwall . I be also delighted that our call for structural funding , in the form of share prosperity funding , have be honour by the Government , particularly give the willingness of the previous Government to throw we under a bus , ship young people on their not so merry way to a hare - brain national service scheme . I only wish that more Conservative Members from the previous Government be sit on the Opposition Benches to debate this landmark Budget with I this evening . it be through the national wealth fund and GB Energy that we will be able to mobilise billion of pound of private finance , de - risk investment to support critical infrastructure project include in Cornwall , which will turbocharge the green economy and propel our country into the future . our Labour Government will make sure we invest every penny of taxpayer ' money responsibly , prioritise our public service and ensure that economic stability remain at the heart of decision making , and protect work people from preventable economic shock , such as those we have see . we be drive forward the green industrial revolution at home in Cornwall and I be committed to ensure that the spoil be spread among the community . our investment in skill and infrastructure will empower local people and open up those opportunity for growth and innovation . rise — this government ' s Budget — [ Laughter . ] I be actually make quite a brief speech , but I appreciate the eagerness of colleague to lend their remark to this landmark Budget debate . [ interruption . ] I thank those sit on the Front Bench . this government ' s budget signal a clear departure from the short - termism and sticking - plaster politic of the last 14 year . they be commit to take long - term decision to fix the fragile foundation of this country and secure a prosperous future for all . for St Austell and Newquay and the clay country , that mean not just recovery but a real chance to thrive , ensure that our community be at the forefront of this transformation and benefit from a bright , more prosperous future . I do not know whether you , like I , be a fan of " Yes Minister " , Madam Deputy Speaker , but if you be , you may remember the first ever episode of what be suppose to be a sitcom . in the episode call " Open Government " , Sir Humphrey start by explain to Bernard , " Dispose of the difficult stuff in the title . it will do far less harm in the title than in the actual report . " that seem to be a lesson that the Chancellor of the Exchequer have take to heart . while we see any number of poster , slogan , sign and report with " growth " in the title — it even pop up once or twice in the Chancellor ' s speech — there be virtually nothing in today ' s Budget statement , or in the hundred of page of documentation that the Treasury have publish today , that will actually lead to growth in our economy , and there be almost nothing in the King ' s Speech that could deliver the meaningful growth that the economy clearly need . with every hour that pass , it become clear that the Chancellor ' s promise have not be deliver , and that there be a very wide gap between what be promise and the hope that be raise before the election and what we have see both in the legislative programme and in the first Budget in 14 year — as have be say — to be present by this Chancellor of the Exchequer . the problem be not the black hole that the Chancellor claim to have find , but whose existence the OBR ' s " economic and fiscal outlook " report do not support ; the problem be not that hole , but the enormous gap — the chasm — between what the Chancellor and the Prime Minister promise in opposition and before the election , and what they be now deliver for our constituent . with every hour that go by , people be see that they be sell a false prospectus on that growth . the OBR ' s report make it absolutely clear that while it expect a temporary boost to gdp in the short term , there will probably be some crowd out of private activity in the medium term . that be why the OBR forecast that the measure in the Budget will not raise growth but will cut growth , in 2026 , 2027 , 2028 and 2029 . this be an anti - growth Budget . we be look to the Chancellor to announce measure to support growth locally in our constituency . where be the certainty when it come to the levelling - up fund that our community be promise ? where be the certainty when it come to the long - term plan for town that our community be promise — the plan that , in my previous constituency before the election , I work so hard with local stakeholder , local council and the combine authority to help to secure ? the new boundary mean that those project be no long in my constituency but in those of Labour Members of Parliament . although it have be point out repeatedly that people vote for change , the people of Brierley Hill do not vote to lose a next - generation vehicle technology centre that would deliver the new skill that the community need . the people of Dudley do not vote to lose £ 20 million of long - term investment from the town fund , which would make such a difference to the community . my hon . friend be give a powerful speech on this Budget of broken promise . People in Dudley and elsewhere do not vote for this Labour Government to put up taxis on work people , yet the OBR have say today that 76 % of the cost of the rise in national insurance contribution will come out of ordinary work people ' s wage . do he agree that they be rightly angry about that and will get angry still when they understand the implication ? my right hon . friend be absolutely spot on . we do not need to take his word for it , definitive though it be . the Chancellor herself be clear that many of the tax rise that she have introduce today be taxis on job and can only find their way out of people ' s pay packet . People be sell a false prospectus on our national finance . before the election , the then shadow Chancellor promise that Labour would be the party of " fiscal responsibility " and that she would have " iron discipline " . well , at least Gordon Brown be faithful to prudence for a full term . it look as though fiscal responsibility have be jilt at the altar by the Chancellor within her first few month . page 6 of the OBR outlook make it clear that the measure in this Budget will increase borrowing by £ 150 billion over the course of this Parliament . if the hon . Gentleman think that taxis on business should not increase , where should the tax burden lie ? if he do not think that borrowing should increase , what would he cut from the Budget ? we have yet to see the departmental allocation . it be clear in the OBR ' s projection that there be massive increase in borrowing , but even the savage tax rise that have be set out today be dwarf by the increase in spending . the choice that the Chancellor have make be not to do with any black hole ; they have be make because of her priority , which be set out before the election . People be tell that taxis would not have to rise under a Labour Government , but they be now see the reality . the current budget deficit will increase by £ 9 . 3 billion a year . I notice that the hon . Member still have numerous piece of paper in front of he , so I hope that he be come to this point . the Chancellor stand up today and make choice for the future of the country . we can agree or disagree with the choice that have be make , but I be not hear from any conservative Members what alternative choice they would make . the Chancellor and the Prime Minister make it very clear to voter that nothing in Labour ' s plan would require tax rise , other than very specific tax rise that they have indicate . they say that they be not look to raise taxis on business , work people and farmer , which be dismiss as " a lie " in the television debate . we now see that the claim make during the election campaign be untrue only inasmuch as the Leader of the Opposition and shadow Chancellor hugely underestimate how much the Labour Government would hike people ' s taxis . again , a false prospectus be sell . page 11 of the OBR ' s outlook set out that earning growth will halve over the course of this Parliament . this be a betrayal of work people . it be the tax on job that the Chancellor be so keen to attack while in opposition . the increase in business rate will add £ 6 , 000 to the bill for a typical pub at a time when so many be only just manage . per worker , the increase in national insurance contribution for business will add — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be get glance from Madam Deputy Speaker to suggest that I ought to be wind up . the cost be proportionately much high for those who employ part - time worker on modest income . as my hon . friend the Member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) have say , we be see french labour law and german taxis , and I fear that will lead to spanish unemployment rate . this Budget be damaging for growth , for national finance , for small business and work people and for farming in our rural community . it be smoke and mirror . it be the fiscal equivalent of the people on Westminster bridge who invite tourist to put money on " find the lady " . it be a Budget that be hide behind semantic , sophistry and small print . it be bad for the country and the soon that it can be reverse , the well . it be a privilege to speak in this historic Budget and on this historic day , and I start by congratulate my right hon . friend the Chancellor and the Treasury team . for 14 year , the people of the Vale of Glamorgan and this country have carry the weight of hope , pen up inside . today the Chancellor have weigh up their hope , look they in the eye and lift they . for that I congratulate she and the entire Treasury team . government be suppose to be the mean by which ordinary people exercise their collective agency to shape our community . for 14 year , the Conservatives deny ordinary people their voice . they deny we collective agency and a sense of hope in our community . per - worker productivity growth in the past decade be the weak on average since 1850 . that be the bad foundation for share prosperity . public service be on their knee . that be the bad foundation for shared dignity . our Army have shrink and our prison be burst . that be the bad foundation for shared security . and through it all , we have have the double whammy of high borrowing rate and low nominal growth , through which they punch into our weak foundation a furth £ 22 billion fiscal black hole . as a side note , it be astonishing to I that the hon . member for Kingswinford and South Staffordshire ( Mike Wood ) talk about fiscal responsibility and semantic . I do not think he be rise and talk about that during the sharp spike in overnight gilt yield this country have see in the 21st century . this be a national embarrassment for the Conservatives . they should be stand here and apologise . they should be point the finger down , as they ought to have be do at the time , and apologise for what they be do , but I see no contrition on that side of the House . there be those who ask why we talk about the £ 22 billion black hole the Conservatives leave , and why we dwell on the past . I do so because , if we be to grip the urgency of where we must go , we have to know where we have come from . even more , amid the bad foundation for prosperity , dignity and security and the final punch of their fiscal black hole , there be a deep inheritance , which be one of diminished trust and diminish hope that we can get out of their hole . that be why the Chancellor ' s Budget be not just good for our economy but essential for my community in the Vale of Glamorgan . it say with strong conviction , " that be they . this be now we . " it be the voice of ordinary people express in our collective agency . foundation that be wreck by they will now be fix by we . the OBR that be trash by they , and be still be trash by they , will be affirm by we . investment in our future , our health and our job that be structurally slash by they will be regain by we . the hon . Gentleman talk about investment for our future . what be he go to say to the farmer of the Vale of Glamorgan who fear that they will no long be able to pass on their farm to the next generation , as each generation before they have be able to do until this black day of broken promise in this Budget ? I will say to they what I say during the campaign , which be that I see the pain inflict on they over the past 14 year . the fact be that the animal welfare and environmental standard of our proud Welsh and british farm be sell down the river in trade deal negotiate by Conservative Ministers while the right hon . Gentleman laugh along . it be absolutely unacceptable . that be what I will say to they , and I will confirm that we will not allow any of it to happen again . structural investment in our future be slash by the Conservatives , but it have be restore by we . borrowing rate shoot up under they , include the big overnight spike in short - term gilt in the 21st century , but they have be bring back to par with the United States by we . the market be decry as conspiracist by they , but those same market now hail the return of british fiscal credibility due to we . Wales be deny a voice by they , but it be now front and centre again thank to this Budget and this government . real wage be squeeze by they , but the national living wage be now rise again . fuel duty have be freeze , carer ' s allowance have be increase and , much to my heart ' s delight , 1p have be take off the price of a pint in pub in Vale of Glamorgan and across the country . at the heart of it , trust , the most critical foundation of my community , rip up by they , and now , brick by brick , rebuild by we . rise — I remind member that we be push for time , so I be impose an immediate five - minute time limit . it be so inspiring for woman and girl across the country to have hear the first female Chancellor deliver her Budget today . as Liberal Democrats , we will always welcome those part of the Budget that aim to take the NHS off life support after so many year of under - investment by the last Conservative Government . it be good to hear those commitment today . if we be to fix the NHS and bring down the disastrous treatment and appointment backlog that be cause incredible suffering to constituent across the country , we need not only to repair hospital with crumble roof but to build new one , and urgently , because progress have be far too slow . we all know that the new hospital programme be ambitious but , sadly , the Conservatives fail . originally , 40 new hospital be promise by 2030 , but not one of they have yet open . in a cruel irony , we find ourselves with a backlog of hospital wait to be build , with no assurance in this Budget on how many will be fund . in my constituency , the cutting - edge Cambridge cancer hospital , with its great ambition to change the story of cancer forever , will offer lifesave treatment to patient across the east of England , include , I hope , my husband . what really set it apart be that in the same building , alongside the patient and their medical team , academic and industry researcher will focus on deliver groundbreake early detection and innovation that will transform the life of million of cancer patient , not just in Cambridgeshire and the east of England but worldwide . however , this new hospital be trap in uncertainty . despite have have a full business case approve , planning permission grant and spade in the ground , this essential hospital be on hold . every day that we wait for the final green light , the cost escalate — not only the cost of the building but , potentially , at the cost of human life , too . the Government have place these hospital that be promise in 2019 under review , because despite their promise the Conservatives never allocate the necessary funding . we wait with bated breath for the final decision , which be now set for January 2025 . I have the pleasure of meet the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to discuss the situation face the Cambridge cancer hospital in my constituency . I receive assurance that fund to support the cost of the contractor be still be pay . will the Chancellor commit finally to allocate the funding necessary for the Cambridge cancer research hospital , so that the promise to all those in the east of England and beyond who be desperate for groundbreake , lifesave cancer treatment be not break once again ? although it be disappointing that the conservative Benches be almost empty , it give I great pleasure to welcome the first Labour Budget in more than 14 year . I be delighted that the Chancellor herself visit Mansfield . she clearly listen to the concern of my constituent , because many of the thing local people have be say they want to see be announce in the Budget this afternoon . during my election campaign , I set out a mandate of five mission to deliver as part of my commitment to help the people of Mansfield and Warsop . it be refreshing that today ' s Budget will enable I to deliver on those mission , alongside the national mission we have as a Government . Nottinghamshire have previously hold the accolade of be the bad place for pothole in the UK . my constituent regularly contact I in exasperation about the state of the road in Mansfield , after eight year of failure from the Tories in county hall . the people of Mansfield will therefore welcome the news that we be invest almost £ 1 . 6 billion more to maintain and renew the nation ' s road , enable we to go even far than the previous Government ' s commitment to fix an additional 1 million pothole across England each year . I look forward to work with Ministers to ensure Nottinghamshire get its fair share of that funding . my resident in Mansfield report to I their experience of the 8 am scramble for a GP appointment . they want more investment to rebuild our NHS and to cut waiting time . I be glad we make progress today towards deal with the mess leave by the previous Government . I know those Mansfield resident will welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement of a more than £ 20 billion increase in the day - to - day health budget , help to deliver our manifesto commitment to fund 40 , 000 extra hospital appointment a week , increase capacity for ten of thousand more procedure next year , and deliver new capacity for over a million additional diagnostic test . local people want to see we fix our break housing market , for both buyer and renter . the £ 500 million boost to the affordable home programme will help local authority and housing association . visitor to our town centre want we to crack down on crime and antisocial behaviour . I know the people of Mansfield will welcome today ' s announcement to increase the core Government grant for police force . my final focus be to see we create the condition for a stable and grow economy that benefit the prosperity of people in Mansfield and Warsop . the Chancellor clearly understand that , with the announcement of an additional £ 300 million for further education by transform the apprenticeship levy into a growth and skill levy . I look forward to collaborate with my colleague in Government to deliver the benefit of that package for Mansfield . stability ensure energy security , protect household budget and give my local business the confidence to invest in people . stability mean that instead of worry about political infighting and jump from one crisis to the next , we can invest in our public service . that be what the people of Mansfield send I here to deliver on , so I be very pleased that our first Budget be protect work people . we be choose to ask the wealthy and business to pay their fair share , while ensure that work people will not face high taxis in their payslip . the conservative party wreck the economy . today we be fix the foundation and begin the work of rebuild it . that be why I be so proud to be part of this new Government , to support they and to support this Budget . many member have welcome aspect of today ' s Budget , and I do , too , especially the additional funding for the NHS and for school rebuilding in the face of the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete crisis . however , the impact on small farm that be slightly large than the £ 1 million threshold will be devastating and will see family - own farm in my constituency , and no doubt across the UK , sell out to big business as inheritance tax literally tear they apart . I urge the Government to think again on that before it break up family farm , threaten food security and destroy community . I be not surprised to see the conservative Benches so empty as we come to scrutinise their economic record . People understand that our inheritance from the previous Government be not one of poor delivery or of an economic downturn , but be one of national decline . everywhere we look in this country , thing simply do not work . People understand that , because they live it every single day of their life . I disagree a little with our Front - Bench team in its analysis of the Tories ' record on growth . there be a record on growth that the Tories deserve to have their name attach to : the number of food parcel give out in this country grow to 3 million ; the number of worker on zero - hour contract grow to more than 1 million ; the number of patient on waiting list grow threefold ; the number of people have to pay for private treatment reach almost 1 million ; the average heating bill grow by more than 100 % . the problem grow and grow under the previous Government and the response become small and small . they shrink from the challenge , refuse even to acknowledge the problem , and even hide it in their own Budget . a number of hon . member have fondly mention Alistair Darling today . everyone who know he and who be friend with he will be think about he today . the bad insult that Alistair have for someone be that they be not serious . the right hon . and gallant Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) impress the House by quote some Swahili . my Swahili be learn from " the Lion King " . that idea of Hakuna Matata sum up the whole economic attitude of the previous Government . it be clear from listen to Conservatives today that , if the voter have not intervene , they would have keep on for year after year with cut , under - investment and austerity . thank goodness that we have serious leadership again and a Budget that move we on from that fail project . there will be debate about how public debt be register within the public finance , but these be not technical detail . that we take such strict view of investment in this country be why we have so few scanner in hospital , why kid in my constituency spend their whole childhood in crowded home , why family be wait for social housing , and why kid be in classroom that should have be rebuild . what a relief it be to see that investment today . in my constituency of East Renfrewshire , I welcome the investment in hydrogen , build on the advantage that we already have there . value be , as other have say , about choice . we have see the choice of the Opposition . they choose to stand with the 1 % who pay capital gain tax over the 99 % who do not , with the 0 . 1 % of the population who be non - dom over those who be not , and with the private jet - setter over the masse . if they oppose the revenue raiser , they be also set themselves against the spending and investment . speak of be serious , as a Scottish MP I be delighted that the adult be in charge here , although the clown be still in charge of the circus in St Andrew ' s House — and it be not surprising that SNP Members be not here today . with the large ever settlement of the devolution era , they be leave naked . the last fig leaf cover their embarrassment be go , their own inadequacy be expose , and what it lay bare be not very impressive . today offer the chance for Scotland to deliver change base on the investment that have be make available by Labour , but it can not go down the same drain that everything else have in Scotland . this Budget offer the opportunity to grow the economy , income and industry , but there be something else stir today that other hon . member have mention , and it be an unfamiliar feeling : we can begin to hope again . we can begin to hope , to feel proud and to look forward to the future of our country once again . I praise my hon . friend the Member for East Renfrewshire ( Blair McDougall ) for his speech and for his reference to Alistair Darling , who would indeed think that not be serious be the bad thing that could possibly happen . but he also would have have his definition of seriousness , which would be say that on a day when we have a huge budget like this and people will be spend their time go through all the weed — I promise you , Madam Deputy Speaker , it be sorely tempting — we should focus on the big picture choice that have be make , because those be the choice that will define not just this Budget , but this Parliament and this Government . I will touch on two of those choice today : first , the choice that the state of the public finance and public service can not continue as it be today ; and , secondly , the choice that we can not continue to be a country live off our past rather than invest in our future . those be the choice of this Budget , and the fact that Opposition member be not in their place show that they do not know what their choice be and they do not have answer to those question . let I turn first to the public finance and public service . we all live in part of the country where people be not get the operation they need , where crime be not be investigate , and where prison be overflow and do not have the place we need they to . in order to turn that situation around , tax rise be inevitable , and we will start to do that through the tough but fair choice set out by the Chancellor today . several Opposition Members have suggest that our position on the public finance be a loose perspective , but the truth be that the fiscal rule we have set on current spending today relate to a target that be not meet once — not in one single year — under the previous Conservative Government . I think most Opposition member know that public service be not sustainable and that they leave the public finance in bad shape . the peak of austerity be back in 2018 , and they know then that it could not be sustain politically or indeed socially , because they promise to bring austerity to an end . but it have not feel like austerity have be bring to an end . yes , that be partly due to difficult circumstance , from covid to the cost surge on energy , but it be also because the previous Government be distract , promise tax cut while deliver tax rise . I invite all hon . member to turn to chart 4 . 5 in the OBR document to recognise that the tax rise put in place by the previous Government be much large than the tax rise that have have to be announce , regrettably , by the Chancellor today . if tax rise be the death of growth , the tax rise that the country be live with be Tory tax rise . this be not just about tax ; the previous Government be also promise public service improvement without allocate the public spending to make they a reality , as the OBR have lay out clear and bare today . we all know the result . public service be bad today than they be in 2018 , and the spending plan we inherit would have make they bad still , with £ 1 in every £ 10 cut from day - to - day public service spending . none of we think that be possible , so we have make a different choice . we have choose to take tough but fair choice on tax and to put in the spending that be need , include £ 1 . 7 billion for Wales . let I turn to the second choice that I outline at the start of my speech : the choice to invest . we can not carry on live off our past rather than invest in our future , and even if that be ever an option , it be not today , after we have do so for three long decade . the previous Government be plan a cut of a third in net investment — over £ 20 billion a year . why ? yes , because politic of all stripe have short - termist incentive , but also because for too long our macroeconomic framework have have a heavy bias against investment spending build in . fiscal rule have drive cut whenever bad news have arrive , which drive problem in the volume of investment — the average OECD country have invest 50 % more than we this century — and in the volatility of investment . that be what the previous Government be plan , and that weak investment undermine growth . it have be say a lot today that business will not like every measure in the Budget , and it may not , but we need to be clear that business investment in Britain have be low than in every other G7 economy in previous year . why ? because of a lack of stability , from Liz Truss to Boris Johnson ; because thing can not be build ; because we can not get the worker ; because we have run down the NHS and people be too sick to work . it be true that this be a big Budget and there be big choice that we have to recognise . how do we deliver stable public finance ? how do we deliver function public service ? how do we deliver an investment programme that underpin growth , rather than undermine it ? we should all agree that those be the question face the country , and the Tories lose the election because they do not even try to answer they . on the basis of today , they be still not try . the Chancellor have answer all three , with tough but fair choice — not easy answer , but a new direction for Britain . I , too , rather than get lose in the weed , will take a step back , because we in this country today , like ally over the Atlantic and across the channel , be reckon with turbulent force of change : technological transformation , age society , the destruction of our natural world , vast inequality of wealth and power , and mass migration across the globe . Ours be an age of insecurity and uncertainty — a moment when grasp the opportunity before we require choice , such as whose side we be on , which industry will power growth , what friction we will permit in pursuit of security , and which partner we will embrace around the world . today , the Chancellor have make choice . what underpin those choice be a simple but powerful point : because the challenge of this age be immense , the solution must be equally bold . a turbulent age require the confidence to stand tall , square up to what be not work and ensure that we reform what be not deliver for the people of this country . the Chancellor ' s choice demonstrate that commitment , reckon with the magnitude of the challenge that the country face . first , the Chancellor choose investment . sometimes I wonder whether Conservative Members could benefit from more time to think through what they be really for and why , because to oppose the change that she have make today be to welcome the apathy and defeatism that say that decline be inevitable . a certain mental attitude appear to have grip conservative member : it be too hard ; there be too many barrier ; it can not be do . by oppose the revolution in investment that the Chancellor unleash today , Conservative Members have firmly put themselves on the side of the naysayer , and those who would lie still while Britain decline . not we . not Labour Members . will the hon . member give way ? I will make some progress . secondly , the Chancellor choose who the Government will stand beside , by raise taxis ; tax asset , wealth and those who can afford it ; protect work people ; and follow my predecessor , Ian McCartney , in raise the minimum wage , from which 8 , 000 of my constituent will benefit . will the hon . member give way ? no , I will not . Labour member be proud that , alongside the Make work pay package , the Government be deliver a generational shift in wealth and power towards worker — a shift that be long overdue . we know that erode worker power and pay be bad for productivity and growth . more importantly , how can any worker in Britain trust their government and have faith in their country when for so long the Government have fail to deliver for they ? this Government will stand beside work people no matter what . lastly , the Chancellor choose to move Britain confidently into the future by be an activist government , embrace a new era of technological change , invest billion in datum storage and processing , and transform how we deliver healthcare to shift towards prevention and community health provision . I hope that she and the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care will visit my local trust in Wigan , which be pioneer such healthcare in the town I represent in Makerfield . for week now , Conservative Members — disintereste in big argument about the future — have revert to type . they have seek to sow discord and division , at time tell outright lie , and as ever wholly lack the humility to reflect on why they be in opposition and we be in government . I have speak to hundred of constituent in the last month who have hear some of their nonsense , and to they I say this : I promise that this Government would not remove free bus pass for pensioner . we keep that promise . I promise that this Government would not levy income tax on pension , and we keep that promise . I promise that income tax rate would not go up , and we keep that promise . we choose to back worker and tax wealth and asset ; we choose to invest in our NHS ; we choose to take Britain into the future rather than wallow in the past ; and , above all else , we choose to keep our promise , because that be what Labour do . I wonder whether Conservative Members will own up to their choice and show some leadership in an age when it be so badly need . if they oppose our investment rule , which hospital and datum centre would they cut ? if they oppose our tax rise , which struggle public service would they sacrifice ? if they can not answer those question , as they have not do today , the public will not take they seriously and will see they for what they be : the same old Tories , always navel - gaze , and always lack hope and the imagination to see how thing could be well and different , and what a strong and more confident country might look like . their party no long measure up to the age in which we live . I , for one , be mighty glad that we have a Chancellor and a Government who do . today , the Chancellor have not only make history , but have open up Britain ' s future once again — history maker , game changer . government do not decide the condition in which a Budget be make , and nobody would choose these condition , after 14 year of Tory failure , but government do get to decide the choice that they make , and this Government ' s choice be clear . they have decide to face the reality head on , protect work people ' s payslip and invest in Britain and our future — that be the responsible path . the Government reject the short - termism of the Conservative party , which bring chaos to Britain . the Conservatives have not even bother to turn up to this debate on how we will fix the mess that they leave — they shirk responsibility for 14 year and be still shirk it today . short - termism mean that prison reach breaking point as sentence increase but the number of space do not . short - termism mean a handbrake turn on HS2 , as investor see a Government who be not serious about their commitment or infrastructure . short - termism mean that dental decay be the no . 1 reason for child admission to hospital , and feeble inaction cause a crisis in dentistry . no wonder the country be leave in such a mess . the Conservatives paper over the crack with bluster and boosterism , leave people to fend for themselves . where they shirk responsibility , we will shoulder it . this government know that belief in Britain be measure not in false promise and hollow headline but in real , meaningful investment . our investment will mean more opportunity , well pay , and public service that be there when people need they — a Britain we can be proud of again . the Government be make long - term decision so that we can look back on a decade of expand opportunity and rise standard , not another decade of shameful decline , which the country , and work people , can not afford . we be elect to clean up a mess that be 14 year in the making . nobody think that it can be undo in just one Budget , but what be announce today be the downpayment on change to bring back hope — and not false hope . announcement of new hospital that never come , plan to reduce debt that instead see it spiral , and unfunded tax cut that crash the economy be not real hope . real hope be build on solid foundation , include a £ 1 billion investment for special educational need , £ 1 . 4 billion to rebuild crumble school and £ 30 million to kick - start breakfast club , allow our teacher to focus on teaching and give our kid the good start in life . not only be that a good education policy , but it be good for the economy and the future of our country . I can not wait until we open those breakfast club in Wirral West , to expand opportunity for parent and kid alike . the investment of £ 22 billion in our NHS , and £ 600 million in social care , will mean more appointment , which will bring down waiting time so that people be not wait year for the help they need . that be not just a good health policy ; it be a policy that will make Britain strong , happy and ready to take on the challenge come our way . I do not want to be face with more story of my constituent wait year for important operation . I have hear enough of those heartbreaking story to last I a lifetime — stress upon stress , cost job and crush hope . what the Chancellor have announce today be vital : choose investment over decline , reject fail short - termism and fix the foundation . while we be at it , we be protect the payslip of work people , with no increase in vat , income tax or national insurance and a pay rise that Britain desperately need : an increase in the living wage to £ 12 . 21 an hour , deliver on the promise of secure work and well pay . this Budget protect work people , invest in our NHS and rebuild the foundation for Britain ' s future . once again , we be invest in Britain , create the condition so that businesse the world over can do the same . it be a Budget of investment , and it be a Budget for investment . More of the same simply be not an option ; hope be on the ballot in July , and this Budget bring back hope . I thank my right hon . friend the Chancellor for her Budget statement , which bring into sharp focus the choice that the country face . the stake could not be high : we face a choice between begin down a path of national renewal with today ' s Budget , or continue decline and denial if we tread the path of the conservative party . we can not fix our problem until we face up to they . the Conservatives parrot empty fantasy about their legacy , but the truth be that they have leave our economy , our public service and our finance in ruin . the figure be stark : accord to the World Bank , since 2014 , real income per capita have only grow by 6 % . that be without historical precedent . poverty and hardship have rise , and meanwhile Britain have fall behind . since 2010 , if we have keep up with comparable country , the average household would now be over £ 8 , 000 rich . while our economy have languish , our public service have be run into the ground . nhs waiting list have more than double . criminal prosecution and conviction have halve in recent year . our school struggle to recruit expert teacher . our prison be burst . the list go on and on . that stagnation be not some kind of accident — some kind of economic act of God . rather , it be the result of decision make by the conservative party . under Liz Truss , the Conservatives crash the economy , send bill and interest rate soar , but the Truss disaster be but one instalment of their 14 - year story of economic mismanagement . investment be the downpayment we make today to ensure prosperity tomorrow , yet for 14 year the Conservatives turn that logic on its head , mortgage our future to pay for their political gimmick and undeliverable plan . they invest 50 % less as a proportion of GDP than our peer and hamstrung private investment , leave we consistently at the bottom of the league table for business investment . that may sound abstract , but the effect be all too real . over the past decade , we have build only half as much motorway as Germany and a fifth as much rail track as Spain . our overstretched hospital have only half the average number of CT scanner see in other OECD country , and our crumble school have only half the number of electronic whiteboard . today , Britain have barely half the capital per worker of comparable country . no wonder we be grow slow — no wonder our public service be at break point . the Conservatives fail the british people , and rather than come clean , they overspent , hide the problem from the public , and hide the scale of their irresponsibility even from the Government ' s own budget watchdog : a £ 22 billion black hole , an emergency reserve spend three time over , with no money put aside for the infected blood crisis or the Post Office scandal . it be a festival of fiscal recklessness . for example , accord to the IFS , the Conservatives spend the asylum support budget 25 time over , cost every man , woman and child in the country £ 110 . their cover - up have be lay bare by the review publish by the OBR today , yet they remain in complete denial . they have no shame , and importantly , they have no plan . as the Chancellor ' s statement have show , though , where the Conservatives jeopardise our future , this Government will fix the foundation . this Budget will deliver stability , put our public finance on a sound footing . unlike the conservative party , this Chancellor will never gamble with Britain ' s future . instead , she will begin the work of deliver the investment that our economy and public service need , launch new investment , inject over £ 6 billion into our crumble school and boost the NHS with record investment . she will protect the payslip of work people , she will drive forward reform , and she will deliver the change the country vote for . it will not be easy , and change will not happen overnight . the Conservatives have leave a terrible inheritance and , as we have hear throughout this debate , they have absolutely nothing to say about the answer they would offer . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? no , thank you . I be wind up . as the Chancellor have make clear , our Government will not shy away from take the step need . we will not let our ambition be dim . to govern be to choose , and the conservative party choose to put party before country . this Government and this Chancellor be make a different choice — to invest and rebuild , to fix our NHS , to protect people ' s payslip and to deliver change . we be put our country first . it be a choice that will give we our future back , and we should all support it . in this Budget today , we be basically ask this question : what kind of country will we be ? I think we should first think about this debate because we have desertion on the Opposition Benches . we have use lot of number in this debate , and I have quickly crunch some more : 3 . 3 % of the Conservative parliamentary party be sit face we . but high quality ! I think the hon . Lady should say the same to her leadership contender . I think it be important to say that , because we have very big decision be take in this Budget . the Conservatives be now the opposition , and the public have entrust to they the responsibility for hold this government to account for get thing right . however , there be a desertion of duty and a dereliction of what they be suppose to do that I think the country will remember . have campaign in many election and lose many election over the last 14 year , I know the pain that come from lose , but I also know the importance of listen to the voter . what we hear in the Leader of the Opposition ' s contribution to the Budget debate be a refusal to listen to the result of the general election . so divorced be the Conservatives from the reality of people ' s live that they be project absurd notion . again , I think the conservative party will be judge on that , but enough about the conservative party . with our first Budget in 14 year , this Labour Government be put Bournemouth and Britain back on track . we be fix break public service and broken finance . unlike the Conservatives , we will fix the foundation rather than accept permanent decline . unlike the Conservatives , we be elect to be on the side of work people , and we will govern as such . unlike the Conservatives , we be on the side investment to grow our economy , and we reject austerity . after over a decade of stagnant wage and out of control price , we be put money into people ' s pocket . over 8 , 000 people across Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole on the national living wage will see their pay packet increase by 6 . 7 % , and they will get a well - deserve pay rise of up to £ 1 , 400 a year . labour be cancel Tory stealth tax increase by ensure that income tax bracket will rise with inflation from 2028 , and we be freeze fuel duty . after year of economic mismanagement , Labour ' s Budget will boost our local economy , and we be restore economic stability to give business the confidence to invest . I welcome the fact that the Federation of Small Businesses have say today that the Budget be " a huge help for small firm " , which have be hear loud and clear . after a decade of austerity and under - investment , Labour ' s Budget will give a new lease of life to our struggle public service . we be invest a record £ 22 billion in our NHS . as somebody who care for two disabled parent when I be grow up , I know that waiting list kill . waiting list have get long , and more people be die because of that . with this Labour Government , there be an investment in protect people ' s life and people ' s quality of life , which we should never ever forget . we be also provide £ 2 . 3 billion of extra investment in our core school budget and £ 6 . 7 billion to rebuild crumble school in all of our community . it be particularly important to I that we be invest an additional £ 1 billion to start to fix the special educational need and disability system . it be a good start , with more to come . these be just a few of the measure that Labour be take to boost the economy nationally and locally , and to improve people ' s life . labour be make different choice from the Conservatives , and as somebody who grow up , in mouldy and damp council housing , care for disabled parent who know the value of a Labour Government , I be so pleased that people across Bournemouth East and across Britain will once again know the value of a Labour Government after 14 year of Tory chaos and conservative austerity . I be particularly pleased that those claim carer ' s allowance will see the earning limit increase , which mean that people claim the allowance can earn over £ 10 , 000 a year while continue to be eligible . that be such an important step for carer , who give so much to their family , their love one , and our community . I commend all that they do in my constituency and across the country — this Government have get your back . we be invest billion in our public service to ensure that child have access to breakfast at school , that our road be fix , and pothole fill . that be all happen because of balanced , careful choice by our Chancellor of the Exchequer to fund the change that people vote for at the general election . early today somebody be talk about hope . I feel hopeful for the first time in a very long time , and when I go knock on door in Bournemouth East on Saturday and Sunday , I be 100 % confident that people will feel hopeful too . I thank my right hon . friend the Chancellor for deliver this Budget , which show the difference that a Labour Government make . it show a Government who be willing to invest in our country and deliver support for those who need it . that investment will not be build on tax rise for work people . it will be focus on those with the broad shoulder who can afford to contribute more . conservative Members have criticise capital gain tax increase , but less than 1 % of people pay capital gain tax . they have criticise the increase to employer ' national insurance payment , claim that it would damage small business , but we have just hear from my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) that the Federation of Small Businesses have welcome the Budget , due to the support for small business that we be bring in with that allowance increase . the Budget will fix the foundation of our economy to focus on what matter most : high living standard and well public service . those be the thing that make a real difference to people ' s life . there be currently five Conservative Members in the Chamber , and I wonder why the other be not here . what be it that they do not want to discuss and hear about ? be it perhaps the Government ' s decision finally to set aside funding to compensate the victim of the infected blood scandal , and the sub - postmaster who be so badly affect by one of the bad miscarriage of justice in our history ? apology without action , as we see from the last government , be not enough , and victim have have to wait for too long . I welcome measure such as the industrial strategy , with more than £ 20 billion of funding for research and development in growth industry of the future , investment in infrastructure , and in broadband , which will make a real difference to my constituent in North West Cambridgeshire . the cut to duty on draft alcohol will be a welcome boost to local pub in my constituency — I be delighted to see that after I raise with Ministers the need to support pub in question yesterday . everyone have the right to a safe , comfortable , affordable home , and the housing measure in the Budget will help make that a reality for more people . social housing be leave to rot by the last Government , who end their time in office with nearly 1 . 3 million household on waiting list and , devastatingly , 150 , 000 child in temporary accommodation . the Budget include an immediate injection of £ 500 million extra capital into the affordable home programme for next year , support thousand of new social and affordable home . that take overall investment in the housing supply for next year to over £ 5 billion . reform to the right to buy will make the scheme more sustainable , support long - stand tenant buy their own home , but crucially make sure that council can replace those home — for which many have be call for so long . newly announce housing project across the country will allow for the delivery of more than 30 , 000 home . this government be deliver the big increase in social and affordable housing in a generation . I be delighted that education be finally get the support it need . last year we see school building literally crumble , as the extent of the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete scandal become clear . the £ 1 . 4 billion rebuilding programme we have announce will be welcome by school in my constituency and throughout the country . it be also hugely positive to see an extra £ 30 million for breakfast club funding , which will make sure that every child start the day feed and ready to learn . I know how valuable that will be to my constituent . one of the big problem over the past few year have be the ever - increase cost of living . measure such as the 6 . 7 % increase to the national living wage , the extension of the household support fund , the preservation of the triple lock on pension , and the increase to the carer ' allowance weekly earning limit will do so much to ease pressure on those that have be feel it for too long . the huge boost to childcare will see new and expand nursery across the country , ease the pressure on parent , include so many in North West Cambridgeshire who rely heavily on those service . I also welcome the £ 44 million for kinship and foster carer , as part of a trial . it be a subject close to my heart and to those of my Labour colleague on Peterborough city council . kinship carer be family or friend who step in to help support a child when its parent can not , and they do a tremendous and critical job that too often go unnoticed . I be pleased to see the Labour Government recognise their contribution , and the great role that kinship carer can play in our society with the right level of support . this Budget also demonstrate our concrete commitment to the NHS . we be all far too aware of the fragile state of our national health service after 14 year of neglect under the Conservatives . the inability to see a doctor or find a dentist come up time and time again when I talk to my constituent , and I know that picture be replicate around the country . we be end that , with much - need resource for equipment and building that will set the foundation for clear the backlog . it be Labour that create the NHS and it be this Labour Government who will transform it into a service fit for the british people . I be proud of Labour ' s first Budget in 14 year . it be a strong step forward in the journey towards national renewal , and it show our Labour Government ' s drive to deliver for everyone across our country . I be now impose a four - minute time limit with immediate effect . I be proud to speak at the first Budget by a Labour Government in 14 year , and the first deliver by a woman Chancellor . what well symbol be there of the hollow outrage of the Conservatives than their completely empty Benches now . I be disappointed , however , that the hon . member for Mid Norfolk ( George Freeman ) be not here , because his contribution be thoughtful , and I learn quite a bit from they . we have hear how this Budget will fix the foundation of this country , and as someone who have work in housing all my life , I know a thing or two about what good foundation look like . early today , I ask the Prime Minister about our plan to end homelessness , and he reiterate our strong determination to put an end to homelessness . I be glad to follow the remark of my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) . this Budget get we close to deliver the 1 . 5 million home we need in the next five year to tackle the housing crisis that be so damaging in my constituency . it will avoid the failure of the last Government by ensure that those home be deliver alongside the infrastructure that community need to thrive . we have all hear the story of home build with no public transport , no school place and no GP surgery . the Conservatives deliver only one third of the £ 4 . 2 billion they pledge in the housing infrastructure fund . they drain local authority of capacity , so developer contribution for local infrastructure have go unspent . they fail to provide any stability to social housing , leave a black hole in housing revenue account . in London alone , that black hole reach £ 170 million . that be a direct consequence of 14 year of Tory austerity , a botched Brexit deal and Liz Truss ' s disastrous mini - Budget , which send interest rate skyrocket , the pound plunge and building cost through the roof . thank to this Budget , this Government be back to directly deliver public transport , water and hospital , alongside the 1 . 5 million new home we so desperately need . this Budget choose a five - year settlement for the social rent sector , give register provider the confidence they need to invest in their stock . while Labour council have be build social housing up and down the country , the last Tory Government pull the rug out from under they by turbocharge right to buy . as the number of household in temporary accommodation continue to rise , the Tories oversee a net loss of 6 , 500 sorely need council home . the reform that our Chancellor have announce today will set discount back to a reasonable level , put sensible time limit on residence and introduce much - need protection for new - build council home . with right - to - buy receipt go straight back to council , where they belong — a matter close to my heart — we will give local authority the security and stability they need to plan for the future and deliver a generational boost to social housing . this Government be elect on a mandate to fix the foundation of our economy . this Budget be the first step to deliver that change , and I be proud to support it . I begin by put on record my congratulation to my right hon . friend for be the first female Chancellor to stand at the Dispatch Box . it be a historic moment in the mother of all Parliaments . after 14 long year of low growth , low investment and fail public service , we be now turn the page . this Budget be about fix the fundamental of our economy , demonstrate responsible governance by stick to tough fiscal rule and invest for the future . those be all necessary to achieve sustainable economic growth . in the end , economic growth be what will improve people ' s living standard and life chance , and it will certainly benefit my constituent in Barking . crucially , this Budget ensure that work people in my constituency be protect as we stabilise , fix and grow the economy . on tax , let I just say this . if Opposition member do not want to borrow to invest and do not want to tax business , they should tell we what in the Budget they would cut . they be simply out of touch . they moan and groan early , but the people in my constituency and the country as a whole will not forget that when the Conservatives be in power , they cause inflation to hit the roof and interest rate rise . almost 12 , 000 people in my constituency see their mortgage rise by over £ 3 , 000 , and rent have soar . wage stagnation have cost work people £ 11 , 000 on average . as for tax increase , it be the Conservative Government who increase taxis on work people and leave the £ 22 billion funding gap . we on the Labour Benches will take no lecture from those on the conservative Benches who support the chaos of a Liz Truss Budget that crash this economy , yet they have the audacity to stand up with zero humility after their Government leave this country in a bad state than they find it . politic be full of choice , and the Conservatives play their politic in this place at the expense of british people . in contrast , today ' s Labour Budget will make my constituent in bark well off . the pay increase for public sector worker and the increase in the national living wage will put money in the pocket of work people . those increase in people be pay a decent wage be vehemently oppose by those on the conservative Benches , with such disdain it be unbelievable . we know that the damage of the last Government can not be undo with one Budget and that the Chancellor have to set tight fiscal rule , but we will rescue both the economy and public service . we must also invest for the future , and I particularly welcome the Chancellor ' s step today to unlock more investment for our public service . much of it be capital spend , which be really an investment for people — additional money for school and local authority . this country have to invest or it will decline . that be what this Labour Budget deliver , and I be deeply proud to support it . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate on the first Labour Budget in 15 year . it have be a long and painful 14 year for my constituent . family in my constituency have be struggle to make end meet , and our service bear the brunt of a Government who do not value their work , slash their funding , and create life - destroy waiting list and response time . we hear a lot from the conservative party today , but the one word we do not hear be " sorry " . I remain proud to have stand on a manifesto that commit to deliver the change work people need , and that be what we be do today . we owe a huge debt of gratitude to the mineworker who power our nation . for former coalmine community such as mine in Newcastle - under - Lyme , the Chancellor ' s fulfilment of our manifesto promise on the mineworker ' pension scheme be so important . it give the mineworker the justice they deserve , and I know that the 838 former miner in Newcastle - under - Lyme will be grateful for it . in recent year , I have make it a priority to visit local school , and since the election I have comfort desperate carer and parent and make regular plea to the Education Secretary , the Department for Education and Tory - lead Staffordshire county council for action on the special educational need and disability crisis in my constituency . I be very grateful to the Chancellor for listen to many of we across the House , acknowledge the crisis and commit a £ 1 billion uplift in funding for SEND provision . it be progress . there be more to do , but that be the difference that Labour in government make . I welcome the minimum wage increase . the minimum wage be introduce by the last Labour Government — oppose by the Conservatives at the time — and the new Labour Government have increase it for everyone of work age . that will help support people with the cost of live legacy leave by the previous Government . it will help lift child out of poverty and put more money into our local community . the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme deserve a Government who take the tough economic decision , not duck they , and who do not pull funding from our public service or destroy the hope of future generation . they deserve a Government who have their good interest at heart , who will invest in our child and their future and who will create wealth and equal opportunity for all . this Budget be the start of a new chapter for my constituent : an ambitious economic plan that invest in our people and community , and turn the page on the fail conservative policy of the past . I echo the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) about the importance of support our farmer . on support with the cost of living crisis , we have see an increase in the carer ' s allowance , an above - inflation rise in the state pension , frozen fuel duty , an increase in local transport funding and the cutting of draught beer duty . we have end the Tory fiscal drag , and we have scrap the non - dom status that some people not too far from this House enjoy . deliver on our promise to the country , this Labour Government will always be on the side of work people . I be proud to back my right hon . friend the Chancellor in deliver on our pledge not to increase national insurance , income tax or vat . all those who come to campaign with I in the election , will recall that our road in north Staffordshire be shocking , not least thank to the Conservative - lead Staffordshire county council — my hon . friend the Member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) be there . I very much welcome the £ 500 million allocate to fix our pothole . this be a Budget that deliver for work people , young people , local community , public service and the good people of Newcastle - under - Lyme . I look forward to work with the Chancellor and my colleague on the Government Benches to deliver the real change that my constituent vote for on 4 July . it be an honour to have the opportunity to speak on a historic day for this House , with the first Budget speech ever deliver by a woman , the first of this Labour Government and the first in 14 year that be serious about invest in our country , our people and our public service . there be no escape the inheritance that this Government be leave by the conservative party : austerity , the botched Brexit deal and Trussonomics . in five year our country be present with six different conservative Chancellors , with no clear or consistent strategy for our economy . the question for a Budget should be how we deliver the right fiscal strategy for the country . I be afraid that , under the conservative party , it become a question of how to deliver a Budget in order to get through the next month without another leadership contest . that be no way to run an economy or a country . business confidence be sap , the cost of living spiral and , as we hear from our Chancellor , the Conservatives make a conscious decision to cut investment in our future . today , we hear from a Labour Chancellor who do not pretend that the choice that confront we be easy , but who have set out a clear plan for how our economy can grow and living standard can rise . we will prosper as a country only if our society be in good health , and if we choose to invest in place and people . this be a Budget that invest in the country and in my community in Welwyn Hatfield . in my local NHS trust , 1 , 700 people have be wait long than a year to start treatment in our health service . we can not fix the economy without get people back to health , and to do that we need both investment and reform . that be why the £ 22 . 6 billion in extra investment announce for the NHS be so significant . exclude the covid emergency , it be the single big investment since 2010 . but we have to embrace new technology as well , and I know that be a priority for our Government . we can not fix the NHS without support our staff , and the 5 . 5 % pay rise announce in the first few week of this Labour Government be land in people ' s payslip this week . key worker who endure so much during covid be finally be reward with a fair pay deal . since the summer , I have visit a different school in Welwyn Hatfield every week . on each and every visit , I have be blow away by the dedication of the staff and the ability of the child , but too many have not be get the support from the state that they deserve . that be why I be so glad to hear today the £ 1 billion of extra investment in SEND . I will be think of child study at Lakeside school in Welwyn Garden City and Southfield school in Hatfield , who so desperately need that extra support . when the Conservatives take office in 2010 , they slash funding for social housing . the result have be as devastating as they be predictable : a deepening housing crisis play out in community across the country . on their watch , Welwyn Hatfield have be lose council home every year . we have to turn the corner and this Budget do that . the immediate £ 500 million injection into the affordable home programme send a clear message : Labour will invest in build social and council home again . the rebuilding of our country and my community start with this Government and this Budget . it be a Budget for school , a Budget for housing , a Budget for our NHS , and a Budget that I be so proud to support . I wish first to refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be one of those terrible trade unionist you have be hear about from those on the Opposition Benches . it be a shame so few of they be here ; clearly , this be a contractual obligation attendance at the debate . I genuinely suggest that they should look at get a trade union rep . many member who have speak in this debate be train economist — my hon . friend the Members for Swansea West ( torsten Bell ) and for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) be two of the most recent . I have be call many thing in my life but never an economist , so I want to focus on what the Budget will mean for people where I be from , in Gateshead . I be particularly pleased that we will not be return to austerity , because austerity rip through Gateshead and the scar will remain for a long time . today be about rebuild the foundation of community like mine for a well future . let we recap on what some of that mean . as my hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) say , the investment in the NHS be the big outside of covid since 2010 — £ 25 . 6 billion . that will get waiting list down — promise make , promise deliver . there be investment in high street , transport and home that will change my community for the well — promise make , promise deliver . there be a high minimum wage , up nearly 7 % , and close the gap face by young worker . for some that will mean up to £ 1 , 400 a year , which be a life - change amount of money — promise make , promise keep . injustice be be tackle in a promise make to those who suffer from the Post Office scandal and a promise make to those affect by infected blood — promise that have previously be make by all party , but a promise make by this party and a promise keep in government . there be £ 1 billion for the household support fund , target those who need help most — a promise make , a promise keep — and promise have be make to those who rely on our school , too . in particular , I want to mention our college : £ 300 million into further education be a huge and hugely welcome change for college such as Gateshead college in my constituency . on SEND , all of we on the Labour Benches promise that if we be elect into government we would act to help those with special educational need . we have do that today , with a £ 1 billion investment — promise make , promise keep . there be also a promise make not to raise the taxis of work people in their payslip — a promise make and a promise keep . there be also some underrated change in the Budget that I would like to refer to in the time remain . universal credit change reduce the gap in deduction will keep more people out of poverty , more people out of food poverty and , yes , more child out of poverty — as will breakfast club , because no child should go to school hungry and under Labour none will . the people of Gateshead Central and Whickham who send I here should take heart from today . the road to change our country be a long one . we take the first step together . we should take heart , because real change and positive change be come . it be an honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) . he have dedicate his entire life to work people and defend their right , and it be no different when he be sit on these Benches . after today , let no one pigeonhole woman in politic or put limit on our ability not only to achieve the high position but to deliver , as the Chancellor have today . I hope that in future this will be the norm , and that my daughter will shrug her shoulder and say " Woman Chancellor ? so what , mum — that ' s normal " , but until that day come , let we go on celebrate the exception that smash through glass ceiling after glass ceiling and , importantly , pass the ladder down . that be the labour way , as have be demonstrate by this first Labour Budget in 14 long year . this be a Budget with a positive focus on health , wage and school , but there be also some very tough decision . we expect that . no one who have be pay attention to the state of the finance leave by the past 14 year of conservative government would have expect anything different . the Conservatives leave a bin fire of waste and self - serve greed , all pay for with taxpayer ' money — not their money but that of the taxpayer , the people we represent . billion of pound be waste on warped priority that do not just put Tory party before country , but in some sorry case fill the pocket of former Ministers ' mate before fill the empty stomach of child be teach in crumble school . anyone who need proof of how little the conservative care about the mess they have leave should take a look at the empty Benches opposite I . not a single conservative Back Bencher be here . work people , much ? it seem an age ago , but it be not , when the former Tory Government have to be shame by campaigner such as the footballer Marcus Rashford into feed hungry child during the school holiday . child go hungry while the Tory Government waste money on reckless experimental budget and doom Rwanda scheme . I be proud to say that because of this Labour Government , primary school child in Luton North — where nearly 50 % of child grow up below the poverty line — will get a breakfast , so that they , and every child across the country , can start the school day with an appetite only for learning , and not for food . free breakfast club for child of primary school age will transform many young life , and also the life of work parent scramble for the precious extra minute of free childcare . there be also £ 1 billion extra for child with special educational need . everyone , of every political stripe , will and should welcome that much - need investment . every child give the start in life that they need to succeed : that be the power of a Labour Government , and this be the power of a Labour Budget . but should we really be celebrate stop child go hungry ? should we have have to fight to show that that be the wrong political choice ? of course not . however , it be not by accident that people in constituency such as like mine be inflict by so much financial pain , from stagnate wage to non - existent industrial strategy to local authority cut — in Luton , to the tune of nearly £ 190 million . what a difference a Budget like our show : long - term strategy for investment and growth , and no return to the austerity that cripple community such as mine . thank to the rise national minimum wage , 3 , 300 people in Luton North will be well off . there be £ 22 billion for the NHS , include £ 70 million for radiotherapy machine . that will improve poor health outcome in our region , and will allow staff work at Luton and Dunstable University hospital to help patient more quickly . there be £ 5 billion of investment in housing , in addition to 33 , 000 new home . these programme will help people in Luton : they will help the more than 8 , 000 people on waiting list for council housing . People have suffer enough , and that be why they vote for change . deliver these change will take time , but for once they be not false promise . we know that no Budget can give everyone what they need overnight , but see today that this Government be intent on deliver for the people I serve in Luton North give I not just relief , but genuine hope for our town ' s future . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Chancellor on a tremendous Budget despite a remarkably difficult inheritance . we have keep our promise : change be here , and it can not come soon enough . today ' s Budget set out firmly the foundation of sustainable economic growth that will benefit town , city and village across our nation . the Chancellor ' s proposal lay down the central groundwork for address inequality , invest in our area and the NHS , and tackle the housing crisis , full - throatedly support growth . these be critical step towards a prosperous Britain , include Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield — a goal that we can all get behind . investment in our education system be critical for our future . indeed , I be hugely proud that my right hon . friend the Chancellor be prioritise education in this Budget . there be more money for teacher , support staff and breakfast club , £ 300 million for further education , and a furth £ 1 billion for special educational need — a critical injection of cash , and an investment in our future . I be glad to see that this Budget be centre on real priority : support work people , fix the NHS and rebuild our country . we be pay down the overdraft that the Conservatives build up . I still find it the height of irresponsibility that they spend the country ' s emergency reserve three time over on what be essentially electioneer , and now they have the brass neck to lecture we about financial responsibility — when they turn up , that is . they do not fund the bus cap or the new hospital programme , and they do not disclose their shenanigan to the OBR . they do not fund our prison and , disgracefully , they do not fund the compensation scheme for infected - blood victim and the sub - postmaster . they do not even fund day - to - day spending ; they leave we with a £ 126 billion in - year debt interest payment , just to stand still . it be short - termist and unsustainable . I be glad to hear that my right hon . friend the Chancellor will not only cut the deficit , but bring we into surplus in just a few year ' time . during the election , the Conservatives make promise that they have no intention of keeping . by make promise and fail to fund they , they be play politic with people ' s life and service , which could only end with the grotesque chaos of a Prime Minister stand in Downing Street in the rain and call an election that he hope he would not win . otherwise , people would have ask he to deliver on what he say he be go to do . he run around signing cheque , know they would bounce . for too long , work people have bear the weight of fail policy , from Liz Truss ' s rise mortgage rate to billion of pound lose to inefficient project . labour ' s plan provide a clear choice : continue stagnation , or real change with Labour . I congratulate the Chancellor on the massive £ 22 . 6 billion increase for NHS day - to - day spending — the large increase in capital spending that we have see since 2010 . labour be back , and the NHS and my resident be happy for it . labour understand that revitalise Britain require sustained investment in school , hospital , industry and infrastructure . Burnley exemplify the transformative power of such investment . as part of the north - west industrial cluster , company such as Safran Nacelles , AMS Neave and BCW Manufacturing contribute billion of pound to the UK economy , provide thousand of job and export to over 100 country worldwide . support these local industry be essential for build a strong , resilient Britain . it be clear that this Budget be about the future , not the past , but I want to put on record my disdain for the levelling - up , " Hunger Games " agenda of the last Administration . the last Labour Government rebuild Burnley town centre , build St Peter ' s Centre , build Burnley college , rebuild every school in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield , bring the University of Central Lancashire to Burnley in order to make we a university town , and invest in our town centre , particularly in the public realm . contrast that with 14 year of be ignore since 2010 , apart from the large , game show - style levelling - up cheque that contribute only to a roundabout and a cinema . I be glad to hear of all the commitment that the Chancellor have make today , particularly on level up , and I be glad that we will now get a long - term plan for the town fund . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) debate to be resume tomorrow . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Vehicle Drivers ( Certificates of Professional Competence ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 16 May 2024 , in the last Parliament , be approve . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Climate Change that the draft Vehicle Emissions Trading Schemes ( Amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 9 September , be approve . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) question agree to . Petition - Bradford District parking charge across the Bradford district , we be now hear worry story of small business lose nearly half their footfall due to the extortionate new parking charge be introduce by leader on Bradford Council , as well as of resident in my constituency of Keighley and Ilkley be force to pay to park outside their own home . I certainly will not stay silent on this issue while hard - work people pay the price . the petition state : the petition of resident of the Bradford District , declare that the propose increase in car parking charge across the Bradford District and the introduction of new charge for resident ' parking permit will place an unfair financial burden on resident and worker ; note concern that individual be now be require by Bradford Council to pay to park outside their own home ; and far declare that new charge will adversely affect small business and retail outlet . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to encourage Bradford Council to reverse the propose increase to car parking charge , and the new parking permit charge , across Keighley and Ilkley . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003018 ] western Sahara Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) I be grateful for this opportunity to raise the issue of the Government ' s attitude to western Sahara . for transparency , I be as of this morning co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on Morocco , a distinction I share with the hon . member for Leeds North East ( Fabian Hamilton ) . I have also enjoy the kind hospitality of the moroccan ambassador and the Moroccan Government , which have be duly register where appropriate . I have a significant moroccan community in my constituency , of which I be very proud . I be a former trade envoy to Morocco . I be also an ardent admirer of all thing moroccan and have do everything I can in my time here to bring the two kingdom close together . the UK ' s outli position on the status of Morocco ' s possession of Western Sahara be the sheet anchor in the UK - Moroccan relationship . that relationship go back to the 13th century . history matter , particularly in an ancient country such as Morocco . possession of Western Sahara long predate colonisation by France and Spain and be for Moroccans an existential issue . any UK Government that seek to partner with Morocco to make the UK more secure in every sense and to grow the economy just can not afford to allow official inertia to obstruct progress and change . I fear that it be official intransigence that have mean that the UK now find itself an outlier in international opinion on this matter — in the company , I regret to say , of feral state such as Russia and Iran . last month , in response to my write parliamentary question on the UK ' s position on Western Sahara , the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , the hon . member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) , regurgitate the same response that Sir Humphrey draft for I when I be do his job : " successive UK government have regard the status of the Western Sahara as undetermined . " if the UK position be inadequate when I be Minister for North Africa and the Middle East , recent development have make it untenable and incompatible with the UK ' s national interest . I hope to persuade the Minister this evening to push back on the line he be about to read out . in the national interest , and in the interest of our relationship with our good friend the Kingdom of Morocco , I want he to be more successful than I be in resist the institutional torpor he will have experience during his first few month in his rather lovely office in King Charles Street , which I miss very much indeed . first , I commend the right hon . gentleman for all he be do in this debate tonight and for all he have do in the past . it be recognise by a great many people , and we thank he for it . do he agree that the reason why the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office guidance advise against travel to area such as Western Sahara underline the help that the people who live there need ? do he also agree that , rather than simply warn against travel , the Government should focus on whether any step can be take to help the ten of thousand of people in refugee camp who have no hope at all for the future ? yes , the hon . Gentleman be absolutely correct . of course , the UK do that through the United Nations and the Tindouf camp , but he make a good point about Foreign Office advice to people seek to travel to Western Sahara . there be very real potential for Western Sahara to be a vacuum in which the ill - dispose can do what they will . we can not allow that space to be ungoverned . we need to ensure that there be a jurisdiction there to bring order and ensure that the ill - inclined be not a threat to Morocco , Western Sahara , the wide region and , frankly , ourselves . the anaemic UK official line have rely on two argument for do nothing : first , that recognise moroccan sovereignty would , in some mysterious way , challenge our sovereignty over the remain british overseas territory , and secondly , that support the moroccan autonomy plan would upset Algeria , which have a strained relationship with Morocco and support the Polisario Front ' s call for independence for western Sahara . there be no evidence that recognise moroccan sovereignty over Western Sahara would compromise our wide regional equity in any significant way . we know this because peer nation that have be much more forward - lean on moroccan sovereignty have not suffer a backlash from a pragmatic Algiers . the only exception be France , but the Franco - Algerian relationship have be toxic before and since independence in 1962 , so it in no way compare with our own relationship or with that of other country seek a positive future with both Algiers and Rabat . I appreciate the Labour party ' s difficulty in relation to the Polisario Front . under previous management , Labour support the hard - leave Polisario Front and would never have accept the moroccan autonomy plan , but the Prime Minister have invest much time and political capital in put as much distance as possible between himself and his predecessor . he might therefore see this as an opportunity . what would change our line to match our peer do to the UK ' s case for hold on to its remain overseas territory ? the answer lie in the unforced surrender of the Chagos island , which be a decision of infinitely great consequence than what I propose would ever be . in any event , Cambridge professor of international law Marc Weller , in his opinion of April 2024 , be crystal clear : " there be no point where endorse the position of Morocco on which its autonomy proposal be base would in any sense distract from the UK position concern title to the Falkland Islands . " what about Argentina , whose mission to turn the Falkland Islands into the Malvinas have be refuel by the Foreign Secretary ' s Chagos capitulation ? well , it have say : " the Sahara be indubitably moroccan . " much of South America also appear to support the autonomy plan or have recant its previous support for Saharan independence . can the right hon . Gentleman adumbrate how the uninhabited Chagos island be equivalent , in any way , shape or form , to the Falkland Islands ? I most certainly can . it be pretty plain to all who take an interest in these matter that the Argentine Government have their tail up as a result of the capitulation on the Chagos island . if the hon . Gentleman doubt that the Argentine Government have have a shot in the arm , he should look up the Argentine Foreign Minister ' s comment on this subject . come back to Western Sahara , could the right hon . Gentleman explain why the UK Government , or anybody else , should agree to its so - call autonomy within the moroccan state give Morocco ' s appal human right record in respect of the Sahrawi people in Western Sahara ? with respect , the hon . Gentleman be make the perfect the enemy of the good . Morocco stand as a beacon of solidity and decency in a very troubled region — [ interruption . ] the hon . Gentleman shake his head , but I be afraid he be incorrect . I want to see Morocco develop alongside its european partner , and I want it to continue improve its human right record , just as I want every country around the globe to continue improve its human right record . he who be without sin may cast the first stone . we need to have a western Sahara that make sense and that be not a vacuum in which the ill - dispose can flourish . that be the basis of the only credible plan on the table , as acknowledge by France , the United States , Germany , the Netherlands and a great swathe of the middle east . all those country seem to feel that this be the only way forward . we have a choice , of course . we could do nothing and just let this issue rumble on for decade , and nothing would happen other than that the people in the Tindouf camp would continue to suffer , but I do not think that be right . I want something do about it , and the moroccan autonomy plan be the only credible plan on the table . I congratulate the right hon . member on secure the debate . he must be aware that there be a large number of Sahrawi people live in refugee camp in Algeria , and there have be for a very long time . he must also be aware that since the departure of the Spanish from Western Sahara , the Sahrawi people have never be give a vote on their future and have never be able to decide on decolonisation . he will also be aware that legal opinion be against moroccan exploitation of the agricultural , mineral and fish resource of Western Sahara . be it not time that we get in line with the African Union and other who want to see a peaceful approach to the future , which mean give the Sahrawi people the right to their own self - determination to their place in history ? that , surely , be what the decolonisation process should be about . the right hon . Gentleman know full well that that would require some sort of referendum or vote . the difficulty have always be define what the electorate would be . that be why we would be kick the can down the road for decade and decade . it be an almost insurmountable issue . it seem to France , the United States , Germany , the Netherlands and other that the only practical solution be to get behind the only credible plan on the table , which be the moroccan autonomy plan . to put it bluntly , I worry that the fcdo have be rumble . its reluctance to follow our north atlantic peer group in recognise moroccan sovereignty and the autonomy plan have nothing to do with Algeria or the British Overseas Territories . it be simply the consequence of institutional torpor and a languid , left - liberal indifference to the advancement of our national interest , and it will not do . Emmanuel Macron be in Morocco on a state visit . in a letter to his Majesty King Mohammed early this year , he say : " the present and future of western Sahara fall within the framework of moroccan sovereignty . " he go on : " France intend to act consistently with this position at both national and international level . " yesterday , President Macron , address the Moroccan Parliament , repeat the new french position . the moroccan press today be report that France will be open a consulate and branch of the Institut Fran ç ais in Laayoune . it have even identify the building in which it will be house from next month . the Franco - Moroccan Chamber of Commerce and Industry be already establish in Western Sahara . where be we ? some 30 country , primarily african or arab , already have consulate in Laayoune or Dakhla . France be our friend , but it be also our competition . change tack on Western Sahara have be the necessary precondition in take its relationship with Morocco to the next level . it be hardly surprising that Macron have in his retinue the chief executive officer of 100 french company . while the 2019 Morocco - UK association agreement have undoubtedly facilitate bilateral trade , we be nowhere near realise its full potential . the massive Tanger Med port , in the lee of Gibraltar , have be a largely miss opportunity for the UK . our current stance on Western Sahara now threaten opportunity in Dakhla Atlantic port . our posture mean we can not , for example , use UK Export Finance in Western Sahara and British International Investment will not engage . if growth for this Government be genuinely beyond the rhetorical , it can not miss opportunity like Dakhla . if high - minded Foreign Office official remain sniffy about grubby trade and commerce , they might be more willing to reflect on the strategic importance of a strong , stable ally at the nexus of the Atlantic and Mediterranean , and what tend to happen in ungoverned space , particularly where russian and iranian proxy be involve . happily , the Ministry of Defence have be forge strong working - level relationship with Morocco ' s military , properly understand the grow influence and leadership the country have be apply across the turbulent region in which it sit . the kingdom ' s long - stand tradition of tolerance , moderate religious teaching and sufi influence make it the foil of extremism and instability in the region and more widely . the Foreign Office might also eventually wake up to the potential for Morocco to help the Government hit their elusive net zero target and to diversify the grid . on offer be a 4 , 000 km interconnector send the power of the Sahara ' s reliable sun and wind to south - west England . this it would do through the Xlinks scheme to match in our time the great british engineering triumph of Brunel and Telford . a country genuinely tool itself up for growth need to stop drag its heel on shovel - ready scheme such as xlink . Morocco , which be shrug off the colonial yoke , be eager to forge new relationship with european country with which it have no baggage . that should mean the UK . Morocco want it to mean the UK , but too often we see the dead hand of british officialdom get in the way . nobody can fail to be impress by the development that Morocco have make possible in Western Sahara , lift the condition of the people who live there . nobody can fail to be impress by the regional leadership that Rabat have provide in recent year . nobody can be in any doubt that this ancient kingdom be a welcome bastion of stability , security and decency in Europe ' s penumbra , our voisinage . even Spain , Morocco ' s near european neighbour with which it have long - stand territorial issue , have a well line than the UK and , more significantly , one that have evolve in Morocco ' s favour from a position of neutrality . it be noteworthy that many of our peer have be on a journey , with language that have typically move from the moroccan autonomy plan be a solution , to it be the solution or even the only solution . this year , Spain have reiterate the revise position that it adopt in April 2022 . thus the autonomy plan be " the most serious , realistic and credible basis " for the resolution of the western Sahara question in its view . Germany have adopt similar language . then we come to the US . the White House issue this proclamation in 2020 : " the United States affirm , as state by previous Administrations , its support for Morocco ' s autonomy proposal as the only basis for a just and lasting solution to the dispute over the western Sahara territory . therefore , as of today , the United States recognise moroccan sovereignty over the entire western Sahara territory and reaffirm its support for Morocco ' s serious , credible and realistic autonomy proposal as the only basis for a just and lasting solution to the dispute over the western Sahara territory . the United States believe that an independent Sahrawi state be not a realistic option for resolve the conflict and that genuine autonomy under moroccan sovereignty be the only feasible solution . we urge the party to engage in discussion without delay , use Morocco ' s autonomy plan as the only framework to negotiate a mutually acceptable solution . " so , what do I want ? I want the UK to stop hide under the UN ' s skirt and to adopt similar language on Western Sahara to our permanent UN Security Council friend , the US and France . if that be too radical for the Foreign Office , we could at least match Spain and Germany . I want the UK to match France toe to toe in establish cultural and consular presence in Laayoune and Dakhla , facilitate british engagement with commercial opportunity in Western Sahara to our mutual benefit . I want Britain to rekindle one of our old diplomatic relationship — more than eight century old . what well way to advance plan for a moroccan state visit to the UK . that be the next obvious step after the association agreement that we sign in Lancaster House . why have it stall ? above all , I want the Foreign Office to wake up to a post - Brexit reality in which we sink or swim depend on our ability to pursue the national interest with pivotally locate , like - minded jurisdiction with which we can do business — country such as Morocco . or , if the Minister want , he can swallow the line that he be about to rehearse and leave the fruit of a new era in bilateral relation to our close continental neighbour . be in no doubt that , for Morocco , the UK ' s position on Western Sahara be the test of how we value our relationship . as other have evolve their position over time , the UK be out of line and out of date . we will make no further progress until we change it . I be grateful to the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) for secure the debate , and for his service in the Foreign Office and as trade envoy , and for his many year of advocate for a close relationship between the UK and Morocco , which be an important goal . I regret that the drafting of my response to the right hon . member ' s parliamentary question be describe as " anaemic " and " regurgitation " , and I will endeavour to provide a little more z for he in future . I would , however , say in relation to Foreign Office official , who get a rather extensive mention in the right hon . member ' s remark , that they be excellent , hard - work servant of this country , who serve without fear or favour . they advise ; minister decide . the speech I be about to deliver have , of course , be prepare by the excellent official of King Charles Street , but it be I and my ministerial colleague who have decide it , so in future I would hope that the right hon . Member might direct his criticism of the policy at I rather than my official . it be a timely moment to have this debate . the UN Security Council be set this week to adopt a resolution renew the mandate of the peacekeeping mission in Western Sahara , MINURSO — United Nations mission for the referendum in Western Sahara — for another 12 month . I be also grateful for the contribution to this debate from other member , many of whom have show long - stand commitment to the issue . I will try to respond to their point as I go . I do not need to tell this Chamber of the complexity of the issue . the UN have maintain , through MINURSO , a presence in Western Sahara since 1991 . successive personal envoy and special representative to the UN Secretary - General have steer both the activity of minurso and a UN - lead process aim at achieve a resolution to the dispute territory . the UK strongly support minurso ' s activity , and we welcome its ongoing de - mining and observer operation in Western Sahara . to that end , the UK have consistently support UN Security Council resolution concern minurso , include most recently resolution 2703 in October 2023 , which extend the mandate for 12 month . the UK position remain to support the UN - lead effort to reach a just , lasting and mutually acceptable political solution that will provide for the self - determination of the people of Western Sahara . this be in line with the position take by successive UK Governments and UN Security Council resolution . a solution agree by all party would contribute significantly to regional security and prosperity , and have the potential to unlock wide economic possibility and benefit for those community directly affect by this long - stand dispute — and of course for the UK , as the right hon . Member allude to . it be for the party to agree resolution , but the UN need our support in its effort to find a pragmatic solution . this be why we encourage other to support the UN - lead process , and I thank successive british ambassador and official who work in the region for their contribution to this effort . the UK ' s position be in line with our status as a permanent member of the UN Security Council , and a key contributor to other UN peacekeeping mission . this position also reflect our core national interest , and it be base on our political judgment of how good to protect they . the right hon . Member refer to a paper by a notable legal scholar , but he will understand that it be for Ministers of this government to make a judgment about how to protect our core national interest and which political judgment lay behind they . we believe it be important that we support the principle of self - determination , which give people the right to decide their own future , as enshrine in the UN Security Council resolution on Western Sahara . I thank the Minister for reaffirm his commitment to self - determination , and for not go down the road of partition nor indeed of incorporation within the moroccan state , as the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire ( Dr Murrison ) seem to want . the Minister could go one stage far and follow the EU example , which would be the case be we still within the EU , and say that the provision of resource and trade with Western Sahara should only be undertake if it be to the benefit of the indigenous people there , rather than to the benefit of the Kingdom of Morocco . we be study the legal judgment to which my hon . friend refer closely . our position have not be to oppose economic activity in Western Sahara , but that it must benefit the Sahrawi people . we will continue to engage with our international partner , as the House would expect , include the European Union , our fellow Security Council member , regional stakeholder and indeed the UN itself in support of its effort . in the Minister ' s engagement with other european country and other member of the United Nations , I hope that he will have respect for international legal opinion concern the exploitation of mineral , agricultural product and fishery from Western Sahara , and the plight of the Sahrawi people , many of whom have be in refugee camp for almost 30 year and deserve the right to decide their own future in their own country . the right hon . member be right to refer to the humanitarian situation face the Sahrawi refugee . I think other member refer to the camp in the Tindouf wilayah . we consistently support both UN Security Council resolution that highlight the Sahrawi people face , and we contribute through the UN to support the refugee camp . my official last visit those camp in November 2023 . I be pleased last month to meet Staffan de Mistura , the UN Secretary - General ' s personal envoy for Western Sahara , and our meeting be an opportunity to discuss both his mandate and that of minurso . I be able to reiterate the UK ' s full support for the UN - lead process . the situation in the Tindouf refugee camp , to which the right hon . Member just refer , remain challenging , and we be work with various UN agency and body to provide vital humanitarian support . the circumstance have be make more dire by recent heavy flooding in the region , as colleague will be aware . the situation remain of great concern to the UK , and we continue to closely monitor development , include through visit by Foreign Office official . member have refer to the moroccan autonomy plan , which be first announce in 2007 . we have choose not to comment publicly on the plan , which be not a judgment on its merit or otherwise . however , I assure the House that the UK would warmly welcome any solution to the dispute that be able to secure the support of all party . while we enjoy constructive dialogue with our partner on a wide range of issue , include Western Sahara , I say to the right hon . member for South West Wiltshire that their foreign policy decision be ultimately for they to make , in their own individual assessment and interest , as ours be for we . the UK strongly believe that the UN be the good way to solve this long - stand dispute by deliver a solution that be agreeable to all party . we will continue to give the UN Secretary - General ' s personal envoy our support , encourage constructive engagement with the political process , and monitor progress . that remain the good way to deliver a sustainable , just , secure and prosperous future for the people of Western Sahara and the wide region . question put and agree to . House adjourn .