Oral Answers to Questions Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office the Secretary of State be ask — Israel and the occupied palestinian Territories what diplomatic step he be take to help support the de - escalation of violence in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of illegal settlement in the Occupied Palestinian Territories . what assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of recent violence in Israel and Palestine . what assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of recent violence in Israel and Palestine . what step his Department be take to help secure peace in Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . what assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of recent violence in Israel and Palestine . what assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of recent violence in Israel and Palestine . the accelerate cycle of violence in the west bank be a cause of enormous concern , and the Government be intensely focused on the situation . while the UK firmly support Israel ' s right to defend itself and its citizen against terrorism , we urge the Israel Defence Forces to demonstrate restraint , adhere to the principle of international humanitarian law and ensure that civilian be protect . the UK ' s position on settlement be clear : settlement be illegal under international law and call into question Israel ' s commitment to the two - state solution . regrettably , a last peace deal seem as far away as ever . in 2023 , dozen of palestinian child have be kill in israeli military operation . we should never become immune to the tragedy of those death , but will the Minister urge the israeli Government to show compassion and restraint and urge all side to put respect for human life first ? my hon . friend make an important point . every one of those death be tragic and a real tragedy . in the annual " Human Rights and Democracy Report " publish by the fcdo last week , the opt be identify as a human right priority . the UK will continue to oppose violation and abuse of international human right law and international humanitarian law by the Government of Israel , the Palestinian Authority and Hamas , include through our ongoing support for civil society actor . it be vital work . seven year ago in this very Chamber , I raise the case of 68 - year - old Nora and her family , who face be force out of their home by israeli settler . despite international opposition , last week she be tragically drag from her home of more than seven decade . if this case be not it , what be the Government ' s red line ? how many more palestinian grandmother must be forcibly evict ? will the Minister stand by the word of his own former Prime Minister and leader , David Cameron , who tell I on that day seven year ago that what we be see in occupy East Jerusalem be now more than an expansion of illegal settlement , but an " encirclement " ? demolition and eviction of Palestinians from their home cause unnecessary suffering to ordinary Palestinians and call into question Israel ' s commitment to a viable two - state solution . in all but the most exceptional case , demolition by an occupy power be contrary to international humanitarian law . Lord Ahmad have raise this case with the israeli ambassador and make it clear that we urge Israel to reconsider forthcoming eviction . this year have already be the deadly for violence in the west bank since 2005 . the expansion of illegal settlement keep on grow . the UK Government now have the presidency of the UN Security Council . will the Minister commit to support an International Criminal Court investigation into the killing of innocent Palestinians and suspend all arm sale to Israel until it abide by international law ? we be use our power as president of the UN Security Council to convene and bring people together . we be concerned about the ongoing deterioration of the situation . we continue to monitor the situation on the ground with our international ally . early this year , I be privileged to visit healthcare facility support by medical aid for Palestinians in the west bank . this week , it have take the unprecedented step of provide bulletproof vest and helmet to medical worker in the west bank because of an increase in the attack they be face . in last week ' s urgent question on violence in the west bank , the Minister of State , the right hon . member for Berwick - upon - Tweed ( Anne - Marie Trevelyan ) announce that the Minister responsible for the middle east and north Africa , Lord Ahmad , would be speak to the israeli ambassador to demand that access to medical care be allow accord to Israel ' s obligation under international law . can the Minister set out what assurance he have receive from the israeli authority that violation against healthcare worker and barrier to health access in the west bank will be bring to an end ? Lord Ahmad do meet the israeli official and talk through the importance of this matter . as the hon . Lady rightly highlight , international humanitarian law require military force to allow medical access in order to evacuate and treat the wounded . we be always urge Israel to live up to those important requirement . this year have see the high number on record of settlement in the west bank . in just the first half of 2023 , the israeli Government promote 12 , 855 housing unit and 10 new outpost . the total number of settler in the west bank be now 750 , 000 . this be contrary to international law and further displace many palestinian family as their house and land be take away . how will that help the peace process ? what be the Government do to uphold international law ? that be an important question . as be lay out in the Foreign Secretary ' s trilateral statement with the Foreign Ministers of Australia and Canada on 30 June , the continue expansion of settlement be an obstacle to peace and negatively impact effort to achieve a negotiate two - state solution . we call on the Government of Israel to reverse these decision , and we have continue to do that with the Foreign Secretary speak to his counterpart on 5 July . in the first five month of 2023 , the United Nations record 475 instance of settler - relate violence result in casualty or property damage , which be the high daily average since 2006 . what plan have the Minister get to request that the israeli Authorities take action to prevent settler violence against Palestinians ? as the settlement be consider to be illegal under international law , will he commit to a ban on the importation of settlement good as have be do with good arise from other breach of international law ? we welcome the joint statement from the head of the Israel Defence Force , the Israeli Security Agency and israeli police as well as statement by other israeli leader that condemn these criminal act . we call on the authority to ensure accountability for all perpetrator of violence . it be important that word be turn into action . back in 2016 , I be part of a parliamentary delegation that visit the Sub Laban family in their home of 70 year in the occupy old city of Jerusalem . last week , Israel forcibly evict they to make way for illegal settler , as have be replicate time after time across occupy East Jerusalem and the rest of the west bank . how many such violation of international law by Israel will have to take place before the Government act , include by ban UK trade with illegal israeli settlement in the Occupied Palestinian Territories , as organisation such as Oxfam , Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have call for ? as I say , we be concerned about demolition and eviction of Palestinians , which call into question Israel ' s commitment to a viable two - state solution . we be push for it to reconsider forthcoming eviction . for those of we who be friend of Israel — and proud to be — one of its strength have be its independent judiciary , which have on occasion strike down arbitrary action by israeli authority . will the Minister say , as friend , to his israeli counterpart when he next meet they that any proposal that might reduce the independence of the judiciary in Israel would not help Israel ' s cause , would not help stability in the region and would make it hard for its friend to advocate for its cause ? I understand my hon . friend ' s important point . we endorse the word of israeli President Isaac Herzog , who be seek a compromise . he recently say : " in the midst of a deep and worrisome crisis , the responsible act of leadership must be to sit and talk " . what make this late tragic wave of violence even more concern be the emergence of new terror group in the palestinian territory such as the Lions ' Den and the Jenin Brigades alongside Hamas and palestinian Islamic Jihad , couple with the seem loss of control of the Palestinian Authority . do my hon . friend share my concern about the influence of outside actor — namely Iran — in enable and encourage violence in the region ? my right hon . friend make an incredibly important point . the action of Iran be abhorrent and cause all sort of challenge in regional instability , and they need to be call out . recently publish document reveal an ambitious peace project to establish a continuous land bridge directly connect Israel to Jordan and other arab state . what step be the Foreign Office take to support our middle east ally on this welcome peace project ? we welcome all step to help move forward with the middle east peace process and follow those particular point with interest . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Minister will have hear the strength of feeling across the House this morning . recently in Israel and the occupied palestinian Territories we have see new illegal settlement announce , increase violence and terrorist attack and a rise in civilian death . all those step imperil a two - state solution , yet the Government ' s focus have be on their ill - conceive and badly design Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill . report suggest that our diplomat warn Ministers that it would breach our obligation under UN resolution 2334 . be that true ? if so , why be the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , the right hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Michael Gove ) , undermine UK foreign policy ? the shadow Secretary of State be correct that these be really concern issue and there be a lot of passion on both side of the House . the Government ' s position be agree by the FCDO and all relevant Government Departments . the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have write to the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee on that issue . Sri Lanka : allege War Crimes if he will take step with his Sri Lankan counterpart to ensure accountability for alleged war crime in Sri Lanka . the Foreign Secretary meet Sri Lankan Foreign Minister Ali Sabry on 14 July , when they discuss Sri Lanka ' s human right initiative . we will continue to urge the Sri Lankan Government to make meaningful progress on human right , justice and accountability . that include at the UN Human Rights Council , where the UK and our partner make resolution 51 / 1 on Sri Lanka in October last year . will the Minister appeal to the Sri Lankan Government to ensure that the possible establishment of a South Africa - style truth and reconciliation commission do not mean that those responsible for war crime in Sri Lanka will not be bring to justice ? we recognise the concern from some member of the Sri Lankan public and victim group about the creation of a credible domestic accountability process , give the history of impunity and unfulfilled commitment . we encourage the Sri Lankan Government to create an environment for meaningful reconciliation by address those long - stand and emerge concern . that include ensure proper consultation , sufficient consensus of key community and a commitment to accountability . Human Rights Watch have report that Tamil family look to memorialise those who die in Sri Lanka ' s civil war remain subject to intimidation and ban order . alongside the Minister ' s Sri Lankan counterpart , what step be she take to promote free expression in Sri Lanka ? as I say , we all understand and see that long history of impunity and broken commitment . we will continue to encourage the Sri Lankan Government to create that climate of recognition for all party and community , make sure that no one be leave out of that process . nearly 15 year after the end of Sri Lanka ' s bloody civil war , the Sri Lankan Government continue to evade accountability and delay any scrutiny . as the Minister say , instead of justice there be impunity . last week ' s fcdo human right and democracy report recognise Sri Lanka as a priority so , in simple term , will the Minister say when the UK will sanction those individual responsible for the bad human right abuse in that conflict ? we will continue to urge the Sri Lankan Government to uphold their constitutional and democratic process . those concern be make clear in statement to the UN Human Rights Council , most recently on 20 June . impose sanction be one response among other diplomatic tool to tackle serious human right violation and abuse , but the shadow Foreign Secretary know well that it would not be appropriate for I to speculate about future designation because that could reduce the impact . Climate Finance Commitments what recent step his Department have take to help meet the UK ' s international climate finance commitment . as the Prime Minister set out at COP27 , we be committed to spend £ 11 . 6 billion on international climate finance over the timeframe originally envisage . I take some comfort from the Minister ' s reply . he will know that there have be much speculation — and indeed , some leak — in the national medium that demonstrate real concern that the Government be renege on their climate finance commitment . could he explain to I and the 50 cross - party mp and peer who have write to the Prime Minister about this when the £ 11 . 6 billion will be deliver in full , break down by each year ? could the Minister explain how the commitment will be meet and assure we that it will not be by raid the aid budget ? he will know that the money be mean to be new and additional . it would be wrong for it to come at the expense of recipient who be expect that aid budget and should have it . the hon . Lady will have notice yesterday that there be a very considerable return of transparency in the figure publish by the Foreign Office . she will have see that the allocation for aid for next year be nearly double what they be this year . we have a commitment to great transparency and I expect to be able to publish in full how we will reach the £ 11 . 6 billion , probably in September . the Minister will realise that £ 11 . 8 billion be quite a lot of money . how do the UK ' s international climate finance commitment compare to other G7 and G20 country , or , historically , to before 2010 ? we be a global leader on these issue , as my hon . friend know , and we have set a lead . part of that leadership , but only part of it , be in respect of money . the UK have deliver extraordinarily on its commitment . for example , we meet our previous climate finance commitment , include spend nearly £ 6 billion between 2016 and 2021 . I call the SNP spokesperson . the effect of climate change be intensify — NASA have just report that June be the hot month ever record — so it be important that the Government stand by their promise to double international climate finance . will the Minister , at the Dispatch Box , confirm that that be exactly what they will do , or be the rumour that they be about to renege actually the case ? the hon . Gentleman will have hear my response to the hon . member for Brighton , Pavilion ( Caroline Lucas ) . I can tell he that we be committed to triple our adaptation finance from £ 500 million in 2019 to £ 1 . 5 billion by 2025 . I hope he will wait , with admit patience , until September when we will be able to set all these figure out . Afghanistan : right of Women and girl what step he be take to support the right of woman and girl in Afghanistan . we condemn the Taliban ' s decision to restrict the right of woman and girl . we be work with international partner to urge the Taliban to reverse its decision to ban woman from work for the United Nations and non - governmental organisation , and to deny girl access to education . I thank the Minister for his answer . as he say , in Afghanistan , household lead by woman be effectively ban from leave the home and be , therefore , wholly dependent on female afghan aid worker . with the Taliban now effectively ban female aid worker from deliver humanitarian aid , even a one or two week delay in reach family mean that mother be turn to appallingly unacceptable negative cope mechanism such as child marriage . what be the impact assessment of the Taliban ' s policy on the distribution of essential aid and what be the Government do about it ? the impact assessment be truly horrific . the effect of the Taliban ' s decision be absolutely appalling and we be work with other country to press the Taliban to reverse its decision on education , especially that on 23 March and the ban on girl go to secondary school . on the specific point the hon . Lady make , we be do everything , along with our likeminded ally and other with great influence on the Taliban , to try to rectify that . Indo - Pacific region : Diplomatic Relations what step he be take to improve diplomatic relation with the Indo - Pacific region . what progress his Department have make on improve economic relation with the Indo - Pacific region . as be make clear in the " Integrated Review Refresh " publish a couple of month ago , the Government be commit to long - term economic and security partnership with the Indo - Pacific . the Foreign Secretary be in Jakarta last week for the Association of Southeast Asian Nations Foreign Ministers ' meeting , meet regional and global partner — the first Foreign Secretary ever to attend that meeting . this weekend we sign the agreement — there will be a discussion on this later — pave the way for the UK ' s formal accession to the Indo - Pacific trade block , the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , which now cover an area with a total gdp of £ 12 trillion . with AUKUS sub at Barrow and Team Tempest continue to progress at Warton , the UK ' s relationship with ally in Japan and Australia be not only defend our demographic value but create job in Fylde and across the north - west . what assessment have the Minister make of the role the skill of those work in the defence manufacturing industry have play in develop diplomatic partnership across Asia and the Pacific ? our world - lead defence industrial base underpin our national security . british ingenuity and skill have therefore make we a seek - after partner , as be demonstrate by the global combat air programme with Japan and Italy and AUKUS with Australia and the United States . these enhanced partnership will help we collectively to deliver well security for our citizen and ally . moreover , AUKUS submarine will be base on the UK ' s world - lead submarine design . this project will bring extensive new job and skill to the UK , as well as the opportunity to help Australia in particular to build up a new cohort of expert . as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Cambodia and Laos , may I ask what my right hon . friend think the new and improve relationship in the Indo - Pacific region will mean for UK trade ? the Indo - Pacific be important to UK security and to prosperity . it be home to half the world ' s people . at least 1 . 7 million british citizen live in the region , and give the new trade deal with Australia and New Zealand , the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership and the improved relation result from the UK ' s status as a dialogue partner of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations , the importance of our relationship with the Indo - Pacific , include those with Cambodia and Laos — in which regard my hon . friend ' s work be hugely appreciated — will continue to present opportunity to the UK and , indeed , protect our security . tomorrow , Thailand ' s Parliament will vote for a second time to choose a Prime Minister , follow the May election win by the Move Forward party , which be now lead an alliance of eight party oppose to the military junta that seize power in 2014 . it be likely that Move Forward ' s leader , Pita Limjaroenrat , will again be block from take office by the 250 senator in the upper House , all of whom be appoint by the junta . while the UK may not be well place to advise on the role of unelected second Chambers , our country be a good friend of the Thai people . what representation have the Foreign Secretary make to the Thai authority to let democracy take its course ? we welcome Thailand ' s strong show of support for democracy through the huge turnout in the May election , and we look forward to work with the new Administration . we continue to work closely , through our team in Thailand , to support those who will make up the next parliamentary group . I be pleased to hear the Minister talk about democracy in the Indo - Pacific area , but at present Prime Minister Modi seem to be a very popular man in country around the world , include the United States and this country . should we not look , laser - like , at his real record — for instance , his systematic persecution of Christians in India , and his takeover of press freedom and other civil liberty ? we have a close and endure relationship with India . we talk of a live bridge between our country , and we be work closely with India on our 2030 road map . however , as with all our international partner with which we have close link , we be happy to raise concern , and we do so privately on a regular basis . strengthen NATO Unity what diplomatic step he have take to help strengthen NATO unity . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary engage regularly with NATO ally , and do so most recently at the NATO leader ’ summit in Vilnius last week , where ally be unite on the delivery of a strong package of support for Ukraine that will bring it close to NATO . the Prime Minister have make it very clear that the UK ' s position be that Ukraine belong in the NATO family . what step be my hon . friend take to help our other NATO ally to reach the same conclusion ? at the historic summit in Vilnius , NATO leader agree that Ukraine would become a member of NATO at a time when ally agree and " condition be meet " . like the Foreign Secretary , I will continue to engage with NATO ally and with Ukraine , not least because we know that Ukraine be a hugely valuable and courageous partner in the defence of freedom . will the Minister inform the House whether the Government will be support or oppose Ursula von der Leyen ' s bid to become the next Secretary - General of NATO ? give her lamentable performance as Germany ' s Defence Minister , I would urge the latter , but it be clear that she have preferment , and despite all her failure she have always fail upwards . no . UN Convention against Torture whether his Department have receive recent representation on the adequacy of the United Nations convention against torture and other cruel , inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment . the UK be a state party to the United Nations convention against torture and other cruel , inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment , and work closely with partner to eradicate the use of torture . war manifest itself not just in today ' s combat but for future generation . as a signatory to the convention on cluster munition , the UK be aware of the reprehensible nature of these weapon . will the Minister assure we that US supply of those weapon to Ukraine will not be allow through US airbase in the UK ? the hon . Member make a point about cluster munition , and the position of the British Government be very clear : we have sign the treaty against their use . other country ' position be a matter for they , but that be the very clear position of the British Government . Hong Kong Nationals Living Overseas : arrest Warrants what discussion he have have with his international counterpart on the issuing of arrest warrant for Hong Kong national live overseas . the Hong Kong authority ' egregious targeting of eight individual live overseas be unacceptable . the UK and our ally be swift in our condemnation , and on 13 July , at the Foreign Secretary ' s instruction , his senior official conduct a d é marche of the chinese ambassador . with our ally we be develop a shared understanding of transnational repression , its scale , and its impact on our democracy . in the last two week there have be repeat example of the chinese Government ' s attempt to intimidate those who have bravely stand up for the freedom promise to Hong Kong . do the Minister accept that we must urgently improve our own protection of the Hongkongers , especially give our moral and legal responsibility , and take the lead role in international discussion on how to protect the Hongkonger community ? we absolutely support the three individual in the UK for bravely speak up and use their voice to challenge activity in Hong Kong . we will always champion freedom of speech , but I will not comment here on any support that may be in place , as I do not wish to compromise that in any way . what discussion have my right hon . Friend have with the Home Secretary or other in the Home Office regard the availability , if that be the word , of chinese police station operate here in the United Kingdom ? early in July , the Foreign Secretary set out that any attempt by any foreign power to intimidate , harass or harm individual or community in the UK will not be tolerate . we have make it clear to the chinese authority that the existence of any undeclared site — sometimes know as secret police station — in the UK be unacceptable . their operation must cease . the chinese authority have confirm that they have be close . many Hongkongers have seek refuge not only here in the United Kingdom but in other Commonwealth jurisdiction , principally Canada and Australia . what work be the Foreign Secretary do with our counterpart in those country to ensure that there be a united and concerted effort to support hongkonger in those country in the face of China ' s repression ? we work closely with our ally and friend and we be very proud , as the UK , to have make available british national overseas visa . so far , I think , 166 , 000 have take up the opportunity to be here in the UK . the chinese communist Government have break british law in their threat against people legitimately give safety in the United Kingdom . if my right hon . friend and other Ministers have speak to their counterpart , they will know that they have bring in sanction against official in Hong Kong and s freezing of asset . what have we do , and if , as I suspect , we have not do anything , why not ? as I say , the Foreign Secretary ask a senior official to call in the chinese ambassador last week , which he do , highlight that the issuing of arrest warrant and bounty for eight individual live overseas be unacceptable . we obviously continue to express our ongoing opposition to the imposition of the national security law , and as my hon . friend know , we continue to consider the use of diplomatic tool , include sanction where appropriate . I can not discuss what we may do in future . I call the shadow Secretary of State . last week ' s Intelligence and Security Committee report expose the consequence of more than a decade of conservative division , inconsistency and complacency towards China . it look rather like a bad ofsted school inspection report . it describe the UK ' s approach to China as " completely inadequate " and it say it have leave we " severely handicapped " in manage Britain ' s future security . national security be the first responsibility of Government . what will the Government do , in response to this report , to rectify their past mistake and raise their standard ? the integrated review refresh , publish in March , set out very clearly the Prime Minister ' s strong and robust position on China . the Foreign Secretary ' s speech at Chatham House , a few week later , also identify that we will protect UK asset and interest , that we will engage where appropriate , that we will align with our international partner to ensure that issue we consider unacceptable to we — the coercion we be see from China be one — be make very clear , and that we will use the tool available to we as require . Kashmir : Human Rights what recent assessment he have make of the implication for his policy of the human right situation in Kashmir . we recognise that there be human right concern in both India - administer Kashmir and Pakistan - administer Kashmir . we encourage all state to ensure that domestic law be in line with international standard . any allegation of human right violation or abuse be deeply concern and must be investigate thoroughly and transparently . many of my Luton South constituent have express concern at the recent appeal to change Jammu Kashmir Liberation Front leader Yasin Malik ' s sentence from life imprisonment to the death penalty , due to be hear on 9 August . the UK be home to significant diaspora community of Pakistanis , Indians and Kashmiris , and emerge issue relate to Kashmir have the potential to affect community cohesion if not handle sensitively . will the Minister ensure that the Government conduct any action relate to Kashmir sensitively and with consideration of the concern of the diaspora community ? the hon . Lady be right that these be difficult situation and that we want always to reassure those who be here , but it be not for the UK to comment on an independent judicial process in another country . we encourage all state to ensure that their domestic law adhere to international standard on free and fair trial and that their treatment of detainee respect international obligation . the UK Government oppose the death penalty in all circumstance , as a matter of principle , in every country . we be approach the anniversary of the abrogation of article 370 and the other temporary change to the indian constitution , which be finally remove after more than 70 year . do my right hon . friend agree that this mean equal right be restore to people in Jammu and Kashmir and , particularly , that woman now have the right to property , which be deny under those temporary arrangement ? my hon . friend be a passionate champion for all these community , and I thank he for the important work he continue to do with they . his leadership be well respected on both side of the House . our long - stand position , of course , be that India and Pakistan should find a lasting political resolution on Kashmir that take into account the wish of the Kashmiri people . it be not for the UK to act as a mediator . Food security : develop Countries what step he have take to help improve food security in develop country . we commit in the integrated review refresh , publish in March , to lead an 18 - month campaign to improve global food security and nutrition , and to mitigate the risk of famine . the devastating war in Ukraine and the destruction of its agricultural sector have sadly mean that , at the start of 2023 , roughly one in three ukrainian family be classify as food insecure . whether we live in Blyth Valley or in Kyiv , food security be of the utmost importance . will my right hon . friend assure I his Department be do all it can to ensure that ukrainian family be get the vital support they need , despite what be happen in their country ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance . in November , Britain will host a major event in London focus on prevent child from starve to death , and on prevent malnutrition and food insecurity . it be all good and well that the UK be host event , but the reality be that the amount of money it have to invest in food security be decline , because of cut to the aid budget and now because of the Home Office ' s use of official development assistance to house refugee . if the Home Office really want people not to come here on small boat , perhaps it would be well to spend that money on famine relief and food security so that people do not flee their country in the first place . the hon . Gentleman be right to point to the importance of international development in tackle these problem upstream . he will have see yesterday ' s publication of the very sharp increase in bilateral aid , and he will also have notice that I announce that we will spend £ 1 billion on humanitarian relief next year . Ukraine : British Council what recent step he have take to support the work of the British Council in response to the conflict in Ukraine . we work closely with the British Council in Ukraine . the British Council continue to provide online professional development to english teacher , reach one in five english teacher in Ukraine . the British Council ' s teach centre in Kyiv reopen online in April 2022 , and it teach English to approximately 500 student . I thank the Minister for that response . the British Council ' s teach and learn in difficult time programme have provide nearly 2 , 000 ukrainian English teacher with help to support young people and child who have suffer trauma during the russian invasion . thank to the work of Zhanna Sevastianova , who run the programme , and Leigh Gibson , the country director , the future of Ukraine , its young child , be be safeguard . will the Minister therefore confirm his thank for this outstanding programme , his support for Zhanna , Leigh and the team in general , and his recognition of the real strategic impact the British Council be have in challenge time ? yes , I definitely will , and I thank my hon . friend for recognise that outstanding team ' s important work . the programme have already train 1 , 482 english teacher to support young Ukrainians , to whom I pay tribute for their great resilience in incredibly challenging circumstance . rise — I call Jim Shannon . you do not look at I , but I appreciate your call I , Mr Speaker . thank you , very much . hon . member be right to point out the advantage of education , but for the child in Ukraine it be not just about education , but about the trauma they have have . what be be do to work alongside those in education and health to enable those young people to deal with the horror that they have experience ? as always , the hon . Gentleman make important point . he can be assure that the work we be do be not only about education , but about provide reassurance and support for these child and young people who be go through extraordinarily challenging time . I call the shadow Minister . as we know , the British Council have be a force for good in Ukraine and across the world for decade . give what we have just hear about the Government ' s support for its vital work in Ukraine , will the same energy and commitment now be use to support safe passage for those former British Council teacher and contractor who be strand in Afghanistan , despite have clear all the security check require to come to this country through the afghan citizen resettlement scheme ? the hon . Gentleman can be assure that we be honour our commitment to resettle eligible at - risk British Council contractor , and it remain an important priority for the Government . british Nationals detain Overseas what step he be take to provide consular support to british national detain overseas . support british national abroad through consular assistance be an fcdo priority and of concern to all the ministerial team . the good interest of detainee be at the heart of our consular work , and we support and work with family wherever we can . More than 100 other mp and I write to the Foreign Secretary express our concern about Alaa Abd El - Fattah , who have be perilously close to death because of hunger and water strike , and remain imprison in Egypt , in awful condition . member of Alaa ' s family be in the Gallery today , hope for a positive update . will the Foreign Secretary commit to make a statement at the upcoming session of the UN Human Rights Council in September to condemn Alaa ' s imprisonment by the egyptian Government ? I recognise the hon . Lady ' s concern and sincere commitment to this important case , and I be pleased that she have raise it today . the Government continue to make every effort in our engagement with the egyptian authority on Mr El - Fattah ' s case . we remain concerned about his welfare , and be press for consular access and his release . we continue to provide consular support to Mr El - Fattah and to his family , whom Lord Ahmad most recently meet on 6 July . the Foreign Secretary have raise Mr El - Fattah ' s case on several occasion with the egyptian Foreign Minister , most recently on 2 March . since then , Ministers have raise his case at every opportunity . I call the shadow Minister . Jagtar Singh Johal , Alaa Abd El - Fattah , Morad Tahbaz , Mehran Raoof and Jimmy Lai be all high - profile british citizen detain abroad , whose family have severely criticise the Government ' s weak , complacent and inconsistent record in support they . do the Minister agree with we that consular assistance should be a right of british citizen , not base on the whim of Ministers ? we take all these case incredibly seriously . they be very challenging . I do not really understand the tone of the question , because my interaction with Opposition Front - Bench and other colleague reflect the sincere effort , in extraordinarily difficult circumstance , to help in all the case that the hon . Lady raise . Iran : Human Rights violation what diplomatic step he be take to tackle human right violation in Iran . we detail Iran ' s dire human right record in the fcdo ' s annual report . the UK be at the forefront of hold Iran to account . at the United Nations Human Rights Council , we have work with partner to establish a UN fact - find mission . we have announce over 80 human right sanction since the start of the process and we raise human right with Iran at all appropriate opportunity . I be sure the Minister will share my concern at the excessive use of force and violence by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps against those woman who be protest . this week ' s news that the morality police be reinstate the hijab patrol illustrate the need for possible protection for those woman . have the Minister have any conversation with the Home Office about a potential visa scheme for those woman and girl who have be instrumental in the protest , who may need to flee Iran ? these be very important and concern issue . for decade , the morality police have use the threat of detention and violence to control what woman wear and how they behave in public . the UK sanction the morality police in its entirety in October 2022 . it be intolerable that that institution still exist in 2023 . we will continue to focus on that . western Balkans : stability what step he be take to help support stability in the Western Balkans . we be work with western balkan state and our ally to create a secure , safe and prosperous region , build on strong foundation of democracy , the rule of law and regional co - operation . we have invest just over £ 47 million on a programme of activity support that vision last year , and we will always oppose effort to destabilise the region . last week , thank to the British Group Inter - Parliamentary Union , a cross - party delegation of parliamentarian visit Serbia , an incredible nation at an east - west crossroad , with an alluring , tempestuous history and so much potential . I impress upon they the need to work together for peace and prosperity in the Balkans , but they consistently express concern about the situation of the ethnic serb minority in Kosovo . what step be the Minister take to help ease tension and ensure that the mayor of the four serb - majority municipality in Kosovo be truly representative of the area that they serve ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question and for his convey his experience . we engage on all side diplomatically to encourage positive progress , and we urge all leader in the region to de - escalate and work towards peace . I call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . we all want to see a stable western Balkans . to my mind , the Organisation for Security and Co - operation in Europe be in a strong position to cohere those effort . do the Minister agree with that assessment and that the OSCE will need more resource to help achieve the stable western Balkans that we all want to see ? I do agree and I think it be a hugely valuable platform . we must ensure that effort to deliver good impact from the OSCE be not derail by Putin ' s machination . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary be at the United Nations in New York for a meeting of the Security Council under the UK presidency . since the last oral question , we host the Ukraine recovery conference in London , which raise $ 60 billion towards Ukraine ' s reconstruction . my right hon . friend the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary attend last week ' s NATO leader summit in Vilnius , where a new tranche of military support for Ukraine be announce . the new White Paper on international development to 2030 be the subject of a write ministerial statement today . on Sunday , in Auckland , New Zealand , the UK sign the CPTPP — the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership — which represent more than 500 million people and a gdp of more than £ 12 trillion , which be large than the European Union . as well as the economic benefit to this country , what diplomatic benefit will the agreement bring ? I congratulate my hon . friend on get the letter of the agreement in the right order . he will know that the agreement span 12 economy across Asia , the Pacific and now Europe . by 2040 , we hope that it will add £ 2 billion to our gdp . I call the shadow Minister . there be report of widespread , systematic and targeted destruction of 26 community in Darfur . eighty - seven body be find bury in a mass grave last week , and fear be grow of genocide . I welcome the fresh sanction , but what step be the Government take with international ally to ensure that the International Criminal Court have the resource need to investigate and to hold those responsible to account ? I want to assure the hon . Lady that we will do everything we can to make sure that there be not a culture of impunity in the dreadful civil war in Sudan . together with our ally , we hold the pen at the United Nations , and with the Intergovernmental Authority on Development , the African Union , and the Troika — all of these different organisation — we be do everything that we can to ensure that there be transparency on what be be do in Darfur and to bring to an end this dreadful conflict . in April three member of the british - israeli Dee family be kill in an appalling terror attack . the Palestinian Authority continue to proudly send hundred of million of pound to the terrorist behind these very same attack . will my right hon . friend join I in condemn this grotesque " pay for slay " policy ? the UK have not directly fund the Palestinian Authority since official development assistance reprioritisation in 2021 . we do not fund prisoner ' payment and we believe that the prisoner payment system should be reform so that it be need - base , transparent and affordable . we continue to raise this at the high level with the Palestinian Authority . we talk of a two - state solution , but we be witness an increase in illegal settlement and an increase in violence , not least in Jenin recently . how be the Secretary of State use the power of his office to set a new framework , use the article of the UN declaration on human right , to bring about a movement towards peace , so that we see not just talk but action ? we remain committed to the middle east peace process and to find a way forward . we use our convening power as the current president of the UN Security Council , and the Foreign Secretary will no doubt be discuss these issue while he be in New York at the UN Security Council . Most of NATO , include America , Canada , France and Germany , have repatriate their citizen from detention facility in Syria . the United Kingdom repeatedly refuse to do so and be now an international outlier . twenty - five british family be hold in syrian detention facility without charge or trial . our independent reviewer of terrorism legislation have say that , without action , this will become our Guantanamo . will the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office review this policy to avoid our suffer international embarrassment for fail to take responsibility for our own citizen ? repatriate citizen and the management of risk pose by returnee be ultimately matter for individual country . our priority remain ensure the safety and security of the United Kingdom . the UK will continue to work closely with international partner in address the issue associate with those who fight for , or support , Daesh and to bring to justice those who have participate in terrorism overseas . last month , the UK host the ukrainian recovery conference in London . ukrainian trade union have an important role to play in lay the foundation for the reconstruction of their country , but the general secretary of the Ukraine ' s construction worker ' union have his application to attend the conference deny and be subsequently unable to secure a visa to travel to the UK in time . do the Secretary of State regret that ukrainian construction worker be deny a voice in a conference dedicate to the reconstruction of Ukraine , and can he assure the House that this be not the result of a proactive policy of exclude representative in the trade union movement ? I be grateful to the hon . friend for raise that matter . I will investigate and provide an update . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . thank you , Mr Speaker , and thank you for your strong response to the point of order last week on the threat against I by President Vu č I ć of Serbia . one colleague here raise the daily report that we be receive about extreme identity violence in Darfur , which will only get bad . as a UK penholder , what be we do to create a protective wedge between civilian and the militia ? will my right hon . friend show leadership at the Dispatch Box by declare these as crime against humanity , because it matter that Britain say that now ? I fully understand what my hon . friend be say about Darfur . she will know that I first go there with David Cameron in 2006 and see what be happen on the ground — what George Bush call a genocide . we will do everything that we can to protect the civilian there who be in great jeopardy today . that involve the use of word , as my hon . Friend say , and action at the UN . we will do everything that we can , as holder of the pen , to ensure that progress be make . last month the UN ' s world food programme announce the cessation of food aid in Ethiopia follow the large - scale diversion of supply . the UN have this week estimate that 8 . 8 million people in northern Ethiopia be in need of food aid , and severe malnutrition have increase by 196 % over the past year . will the Minister set out what the Government be do to respond to this desperate humanitarian crisis ? we be work incredibly closely with the UN agency , in particular the World Food Programme . we be conscious of , have investigate , and I think have now deal with the issue of food be steal . we announce recently that we would spend £ 143 million on humanitarian support in the horn of Africa . I welcome the write ministerial statement on the international development White Paper , although an oral statement to the House would have be well . how do my right hon . friend the Minister intend to achieve the consensual approach that be clearly his aspiration for international development , and do he agree , have hear many example this morning , that nutrition and combat hunger must be at the heart of any strategy ? I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend for his comment . as he know , we will hold a summit specifically on stop child starve to death in November . I hope that the White Paper will be announce at that summit , but of course he be right . this be a cross - party White Paper design to ensure that we reach the sustainable development goal , which be way off target at this midway point , and do something to combat the appalling danger that the world face , and which we have see so graphically in recent day , on climate change . for more than a year , the House have be highlight the threat of atrocity crime return to Sudan , as the Minister have hear again today cross - party . last week , we see more mass grave and widespread and systematic identity - base targeting of community . how much evidence do the Government need before they acknowledge those crime against humanity , and act on their own policy to take effective action to prevent and respond to atrocity ? the hon . Lady be entirely right in the language that she use about the atrocity take place in Sudan and Darfur . that point have be extensively ventilate at this question time . all I can say to she , to add to what I have say already , be that we be work very closely with our ally , particularly the Americans , on precisely the subject that she have identify . murder , rape and pillage continue on a massive scale across Sudan . as well as ensure that humanitarian aid get to those on the border , and the financial sanction that we introduce last week , will the ministerial team look far at way to cut off the source of funding for this violence , in particular by sanction Al - Khaleej Bank and Omdurman National Bank , which be associate with the two war general ? my right hon . friend , who know a lot about the subject , can rest assure that we be look at all possible sanction and other measure that we can take . she refer to humanitarian access . she will know that 15 humanitarian worker have be murder during the course of the violence , but we will do everything that we can to ensure that what she want to see happen happen . the Department ' s travel advice be highly respect , with observance consider mandatory by many business . what advice will the Minister give to a british organisation that need to send an employee to Uganda — advice that protect the right of that employee and their privacy , while also protect LGBT + employee in this country from exposure in Uganda to its cruel Anti - Homosexuality Act , which criminalise LGBT + intimacy and freedom of expression ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right . the british Government and the whole House be appal by the law that have be pass by Uganda . we make very strong representation , our high commission there work closely with affected group , and we always keep travel advice under sharp and close review . child be able to play be something we take for grant , yet minister will know from their travel that it be not something that all child around the world get to do . play instil confidence , build life skill , enhance resilience and restore hope , so will a Minister commit to the House that they will take a lead role in the forthcoming UN General Assembly to support the resolution for an international day of play , which be spearhead by a coalition of organisation such as Lego and IKEA , to ensure that every child ' s right to play be protect ? the idea of an international day of play be very important , and we take it seriously . I will pick the matter up with the noble Lord Ahmad and keep in touch with my hon . friend . in the past decade , more than 1 . 7 billion people have be affect by climate disaster through displacement , drought and food insecurity . the climate crisis be both create and aggravating humanitarian emergency . where be the ambitious strategy for UK aid to build resilience and offset the implication of climate breakdown ? the hon . Lady be right to identify climate change as the great existential crisis of this era . two week ago we have the hot temperature see in the world ever on the Monday ; it be then exceed on Wednesday and exceed again on Thursday . one way we have change how humanitarian work be do be by build in more adaptation and resilience when we deploy humanitarian support , and we will go on do that . evidence suggest that malaria be on the move ; it have appear in part of the US and be creep across Europe . can the Foreign Office please confirm that it be serious about eradicate malaria and neglect tropical disease across the world , and say what plan be be take , if any , to keep british people safe ? my hon . friend be entirely right . I be recently in Mozambique , where they have manage to cut malaria infection by 50 % , but we see that climate change be now lead to its increase again . we will do everything we can to make sure that what have previously be a successful policy of malaria eradication get back on track as soon as possible . a loophole in the sanction regime have see russian steel process in Turkey and export to the UK . the 43 % increase in russian steel export to Turkey in the last year alone show the extent of the problem . the Government have belatedly introduce a ban on import of such steel , but without enforcement the ban will be meaningless . can the Minister tell the House what the Government ' s plan be to enforce the ban on import of russian steel process in Turkey ? as I have say , we continue to work on our sanction policy to ensure that we get to grip with any potential circumvention , but it would not be appropriate for I to announce any future plan yet . whether it be the accession to the trans - Pacific partnership , the first free trade agreement with Malaysia and Brunei , our Foreign Secretary at the Association of Southeast Asian Nations summit or the joint economic trade committee with Indonesia on Thursday , the Government be rightly do all they can to bring alive the benefit of our trans - Pacific and Indo - Pacific pivot . do my right hon . friend agree that we in this House should all do everything we can to bring alive the potential for business in our nation , whether in design frigate , cyber , EdTech or anything else ? Mr Graham , do not push it too far . I be not be funny — it be totally unfair . some member be not go to get in now . my hon . friend be right . the opportunity the Indo - Pacific bring for UK citizen and business be enormous and we look forward to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership be one more new opportunity for they to discover one of the most exciting part of the world . follow up the question from my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central ( Chi Onwurah ) , a Billingham constituent be regularly in touch with I . her Ugandan girlfriend live in fear of her life every day , as new law have see more and more LGBT + people persecute . what more can the Government do with our ally to help people such as my constituent ' s girlfriend and protect LGBT + activist and human right defender in Uganda ? we be make representation as often as we can . there be limit to what we can do , but we be seek to stretch those limit as far as possible . I speak to the Ugandan Foreign Minister on 4 May to underline our opposition to the Anti - Homosexuality Act and highlight its impact on the safety of LGBT + people in Uganda . both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have speak to the Ugandan Foreign Minister and the Ugandan high commissioner in London . the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee be finalise our report on food security , which have come into sharp focus because of the pandemic and the war in Ukraine . with Russia regrettably pull out of the Black sea grain deal , will my right hon . friend reassure the House that the UK Government be work closely with the UN and NATO ally such as Turkey to restore that deal , which be so important for food security across Europe and in develop country ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . of course , we should make it clear that what Russia be do be lead directly to people starve in Africa . everyone should understand that , as well as the atrocious action that Russia have take in invade a neighbouring country . the Minister be aware of the arrest of Yasin Malik , a Kashmiri political prisoner whose only crime be oppose the indian military occupation of Kashmir . what talk have be have with the Indian Government about his death penalty ? as I say in response to an early question , the UK oppose the death penalty in every country in the world , include India . Post Office Horizon it scandal : Compensation ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade if she will make a statement on the interim report of the Post Office Horizon IT scandal inquiry relate to compensation . I thank the right hon . member for his question and his tireless campaign on this issue . I be also grateful to Sir Wyn Williams for his work and for publish his interim report . we will , of course , consider that properly in the come day and provide a formal response to the House . Sir Wyn ' s report recap the progress make in deliver compensation . he note our repeat commitment , which I reiterate again , that that compensation should be full and fair . he note allegation from some lawyer that there be impediment to provide such compensation , but say that he can not see any legal reason why we can not deliver our commitment . he be right , and that commitment will be deliver . Sir Wyn ' s first four recommendation deal with the advisory board , of which the right hon . Gentleman be a member . as he know , the board be establish at the instigation of my Department , and its composition and remit be extend as a result of discussion between Ministers , official , himself and the rest of the board . it have already perform a very valuable service . notably , its last meeting make recommendation about an appeal process independent of the Post Office . we be consider that recommendation and will reply in due course . Sir Wyn also refer to the tax treatment of compensation payment . the right hon . Member will acknowledge that when we work with he and the board on that matter , it result in £ 26 million of additional payment in the historic shortfall scheme , and exemption from income tax , capital gain tax and national insurance contribution . Sir Wyn also suggest that we should legislate to extend the deadline for the group litigation order compensation scheme . as we have state , we will not let an arbitrary date stand in the way of pay full and fair compensation to postmaster . as compensation be be deliver under the sole authority of the Appropriation Act , spend on it be limit to a two - year window that close in August next year . the Government be determined to deliver compensation by that date . that remain perfectly possible , but challenging . if it seem likely that we will not be able to compensate everyone in time , we shall of course consider legislation , as Sir Wyn recommend . I want to deliver by that date not for some legalistic reason , but in the interest of postmaster who have wait too long for justice . may I start by declare an interest , as a member of the Horizon compensation advisory board ? I thank the Minister for his remark and for the positive and constructive approach with which he have address this issue . I also thank Sir Wyn and the inquiry for their ongoing work . I agree with many of Sir Wyn ' s recommendation . I would be interested to know exactly when they will be respond to , especially because a lot of they be in the note that the advisory board send to the Minister at the last meeting . the three compensation scheme have become unwieldy , but the fundamental point be that equal and fair compensation have to be pay to all the people across the three scheme . I would be interested to know from the Minister when the recommendation will be address , particularly on extend the remit of the advisory board . I accept what he say : our aim — and certainly his — be to get compensation to people as quickly as possible . the elephant in the room that need to be address be the continued obstructive role of the Post Office . I find it remarkable that yesterday on BBC radio , the chief executive , Nick Read , say that the " sheer scale " of the problem have " go above and beyond anything that anybody could realistically expect " . that beg the question of what he have be do for the last four year and why he have be accept bonus for his and his management ' s role in the inquiry . the inquiry be stall last week because again , the Post Office fail to disclose document to it . when be this issue go to be deal with ? it either get deal with , or Nick Read and the entire board have to be sack . the Minister know , because he have meet many of the people who be wait for compensation , that they have go through a lot . they need justice , and they need action . Ill - conceive comment from the present chief executive of the Post Office be rub salt in the wound of the victim . either he have to go , or something have to radically change at the Post Office . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his work . he be right to say that there be three scheme , which might be describe as suboptimal . as Sir Wyn have say on this occasion and previous occasion , we be where we find ourselves , and we must push on . that be the easy way and the good way to get compensation for those affect . I refer in my initial remark to the request that the right hon . Gentleman have make for an appeal mechanism . we be consider that carefully . I think he would acknowledge that whenever he have come to I with something that he think we should consider , we have always do that and be keen to deliver the mechanism that the board require . the delay in disclosure be unacceptable , without question , and the Post Office have apologise for that . you be only as good as your last game , and the Post Office have to up its game ; there be no doubt about it . we have a governance review into early issue around remuneration and the metric regard bonus , which be find to be completely inappropriate . we be wait for that report , which I should receive by the end of this month . we will take that under advisement , as we do any other evidence we receive about the operation of the board of the Post Office . I thank my hon . friend for the update . some 555 individual have suffer incredible destitution and injustice for far too long . this have go on for more than 20 year , and some people have die during this process . will he ensure that the Post Office own up to what it have do and that the individual who be responsible for cover this up 20 year ago be bring to justice , rather than this leave a stain on the reputation of the postmaster and postmistress , who be totally innocent of any crime ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his work on this issue . he be right : 62 people have pass away while await compensation . it be simply unacceptable . my Department be look at creative way of accelerate the process of provide compensation to the victim . I agree with my hon . friend about the need for people to be hold to account , and I speak about that on a number of occasion from the Back Benches . it be right that people be hold to account . it be also right that due process be follow . Sir Wyn Williams ' s inquiry be there to identify what go wrong and why and who be responsible , and once that be do we should make a judgment about what happen to those people , but I be keen , like my hon . friend , that people be hold to account . I call the shadow Minister . nine hundred prosecution — all the postmaster involve have their own story of dream crush , career ruin , family destroy , reputation smash and life lose . innocent people have be bankrupt and imprison . this may well be the large miscarriage of justice in our country ' s history , and I pay tribute to member on all side of this House who have work for justice , none more so than my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) . I also thank the advisory board and Sir Wyn for their work , as well as the Minister for the constructive approach he have take on this issue to date . however , as Sir Wyn ' s interim report make clear , the compensation scheme for postmaster be a mess . the commitment to give fair compensation should apply to all postmaster . Sir Wyn specifically recommend that term of reference should enable the monitoring of individual case . can the Minister say that he will act on that recommendation , and when can we expect he to respond in full to the report ' s recommendation , include maximise the use of the Horizon compensation advisory board and provide clarity about the tax status of compensation payment ? can he also provide a final figure for claim that have be make to the historical shortfall scheme and how much the Government anticipate the final compensation will cost ? I also ask the Minister what he be go to do about Post Office management . as the only shareholder in the Post Office , do his Department take responsibility for address those management issue ? the leadership team accept bonus for their work on the inquiry , which be just unacceptable . when will the Minister deal with this ? sub - postmaster have have their life ruin : they must be confident that lesson will be learn from those failure . sadly , it seem that the Post Office have fail to do so . I add my thank to the advisory board and the right hon . member for North Durham , but also to Lord Arbuthnot — who be a tremendous campaigner in this area — and other individual such as Professor Moorhead , who we be keen to include on the advisory board . I also thank campaigner on both side of this House who make sure that the issue come to light and that action be take to address these horrendous situation . on individual case , as I say to the right hon . member for North Durham , we be look at Sir Wyn ' s recommendation . there be an appeal mechanism , and condition d of the term of reference do not prevent we from look to make sure that claim have be settle fairly and fully . that be something we be look at and we will respond in due course . on the tax position , as I say early , we have provide an extra £ 26 million to address that . we be keen to make sure that not only all the settlement , but all the tax treatment of those settlement be fair across the board . on the total for the historical shortfall scheme , we have make offer total over £ 100 million in value and £ 72 . 8 million have be accept , so we have make good progress , but we be keen to make further progress on the remain claim that be yet to be accept . on the Post Office management , there have be a number of unacceptable matter relate to what have happen in the governance of the Post Office . that be why we put in place a governance review , which be be conduct by a very competent legal firm . it be due to report by the end of this month . we will study that review carefully and respond accordingly . the Minister in place at the moment will realise that former colleague have stand at the Dispatch Box and give excuse . the procrastination from his Department have be terrible and the effect be ongoing . Fulsome and full compensation be to be welcome , but the word that be miss from the Minister ' s statement be " timely . " therefore , the first part of my question be this : why two year ? why not two month or two week ? pay the compensation to the postmaster affect . the second part of my question be about the senior management team . so far , they have get away with it . they need to be hold to account , as do their IT consultant . when will something positively be do to bring those people to book ? again , I know my hon . friend be one of the key campaigner on this particular issue . I can not speak for previous Ministers — although I have a great regard for my immediate predecessor certainly — who have deal with this issue . I have not see any procrastination and we be drive this as quickly as possible within the Department . on why not two week , rather than two year , settle compensation claim be complicated . it be about specific instance of pecuniary loss and non - pecuniary loss ; it be complicated . we be keen to get that money out the door as quickly as possible and , as I have say , we be look at creative way to do that . I be just as ambitious as my hon . friend be to get that money into the hand of the people who need it . there have be interim payment of around £ 20 million on both outstanding scheme — the GLO and overturned conviction scheme . nevertheless , full and fair compensation be what we desire . on people be hold to account , I refer my hon . friend to what I say early . we need to see the result of the inquiry — that be what Sir Wyn Williams be there for and we need to see the outcome of his inquiry — and , where he can identify blame , we be very keen to make sure those people be hold to account . I call the SNP spokesperson . I do not know where to start — there be so much — but here I go . the SNP welcome Sir Wyn Williams ' s interim report on compensation . his recommendation would go a huge way to ensure that victim be fully and fairly compensate , and it be about time . the enhanced role for the Horizon compensation advisory board be welcome as well . but the question , as one hon . Member have already say , be : when be this all go to happen ? I know the Minister can not give we an answer to that today , but he update something I have in my note : it be now 62 claimant who have die without receive full and fair compensation . we need to move this on . funnily enough , we have a meeting of the all - party parliamentary group on post office this morning , at which the chief executive officer of Post Office Ltd appear and answer some question . the culture at Post Office Ltd have not change since the new ceo take on his role in 2019 . he promise to change the culture ; he have not yet do so . we be mire in obfuscation still , and we can not get to the truth of stuff because of the delay in provide evidence to Sir Wyn ' s inquiry . will the Minister agree to put pressure on the ceo to get this do ? the hon . Lady be one of the Members of Parliament I engage with more often than not in this place and she do a fantastic job , not least in chair the all - party parliamentary group on post office , so I thank she for her work . I agree with everything she say about the pace of delivery , the quality of delivery from the Post Office and make sure it meet its obligation . we have this constantly under review and we be drive this issue . we be determined to look at creative way to accelerate compensation for all those affect by this , so we can finally draw a line under the matter . I accept we will not draw a line under it until we have hold people to account for what have go wrong , so that be something we be extremely keen to do . where there have be such a grave miscarriage of justice , it strike I that we should be pull out all the stop to ensure that justice be do and in a timely fashion , so perhaps the Government might consider bring criminal charge against the Post Office and its IT adviser as a way of accelerate the process . on pull out all the stop , I could not agree more , and that be definitely what we be do in the Department . my day be never without one or other post office issue , which be not the situation we want . on bring forward criminal charge , of course the Government do not do that , but when our enforcement agency determine that there have be criminal action , wherever those criminal action have emanate from , we would of course expect they to take action . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . the victim of the Post Office Horizon scandal should be fully compensate , so that they be put back into the position they would have be in have they not be a victim of this miscarriage of justice in the first place . the Minister have agree with that statement from the Dispatch Box before , but it be not happen . can I say that it be not a complicated process to be able to quantify their loss and to be able to compensate they fully ? my Committee , I understand the advisory board and the statutory inquiry have suggest that one way to try to improve this be to remove the Post Office entirely from this process and to make it an independent process , properly budget , with the requirement to fully compensate the victim in the way I have describe . why will the Government not just do that ? I thank the hon . member for his work in challenge we in this area . I would probably push back a bit . it be complicated to assess loss . both I and the right hon . member for North Durham sit in on a long call with the HSS panel recently and some eminent lawyer give we a lot of confidence that this be be do right , on an inquisitorial basis , but it be complicated to assess those loss . I would refer to Sir Wyn Williams ' s comment . he basically say that we should carry on what we be do . he would not necessarily have advise this route in the first place , but what he say now be that the good thing we can do be push on with the framework we have in place . there be three different scheme . we need to push they on more quickly of course and I be very keen to do that . as a former post office counter clerk myself , I understand at first hand how the Horizon IT debacle have a devastating impact on postmaster , their family and their business . will the Minister assure the House that lesson have be learn from this terrible case ? certainly , we have learn the lesson in this place to heed those warning more quickly . I be sure the new management of the Post Office have see what have go wrong , and we be clearly keen to make sure it never happen again . I do not think we will be able to say we have learn the lesson and this will not happen again until we have receive the final result of the inquiry and then decide what action can be take against the individual responsible , because that will be the ultimate deterrent in stop these thing happen again . the significance of Sir Wyn bring forward an interim report of this sort be something that should not be underestimate . I be with the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) in the APPG meeting this morning and it be clear that , as far as the chief executive of the Post Office be concern , in deal with historical matter such as this , he see it as a major barrier to change the culture within the Post Office . whether that be a reason or an excuse remain to be see , but he have to ensure that that barrier be remove so that there can be no further excuse about change the culture . I agree , and we be determined to play our part in that of course . I be very grateful for the report and I have read the recommendation . clearly , there be a lot of detail in the report that I want to study and consider fully , but I think it be very helpful . I do not see anything in the recommendation I immediately object to . as I say , I want to make a good study of those thing , but a number of different process have to take place . we have to give due process the time to do its work in make sure that we establish exactly what have go on , so that we can put those matter right . I , like many other , have sub - postmaster who have suffer in this space . I would just like to thank member across the House , most notably the Minister , his predecessor , my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) — I be on the Select Committee when we be particularly look at this issue , and thank he for his time on that — and obviously the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) for his energy there . could I just reiterate what so many have say and ask the Minister to accelerate , with all energy , the payment to the victim , and will he please follow through on the consequence for the Post Office leadership and its it consultant ? I thank my hon . friend for the point in his question , and we absolutely agree that we need to accelerate compensation payment . as I say , we have make significant progress on the HSS scheme . for the two other scheme — the GLO scheme and the overturn conviction scheme — we need to get those payment resolve as quickly as possible . there have be around £ 40 million of interim payment through those scheme , but the full and fair compensation — the final compensation — be where we need to get to . on hold people to account , he will have hear what I say early and I absolutely agree with he on that point . the report state that there be " something like 230 - 250 late application to be determine and that there may yet be significantly more " late application as well . can the Minister confirm that those application will be seriously consider and that those victim may be entitle to compensation ? can he provide an assessment as to whether the number I have quote be accurate or be actually high ? the hon . Gentleman raise an interesting point , as do Sir Wyn Williams , and we be look at that recommendation carefully . it be our intention that everybody who have be affect by this be fully and fairly compensate , and we will look at any further issue that might get in the way of that . we be keen to resolve those kind of issue . I have be involve in the investigation into the Post Office Horizon scandal since my arrival in this House back in 2010 , represent my constituent Mr and Mrs Rudkin . by 2014 , follow the investigation by Ron Warmington of forensic accountant Second Sight and his evidence , I know that they have be wrongly convict . the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) know and have evidence that they have be wrongly convict . the Post Office have evidence that they have be wrongly convict . importantly , the Government have evidence that they have be wrongly convict . will the Minister explain why , more than nine year after we all know they be innocent , they be still wait for full , fair compensation and closure on this issue ? they be the real victim in all this — the sub - postmaster . we certainly agree with that , and we should leave it to the Williams inquiry to establish who know what when , and what could have be do early , and hold those people to account . get wide compensation out to those affect be the no . 1 priority , and the why , who and when be a secondary point to ensure that people be fairly compensate . that be the no . 1 thing on my agenda , and I thank the hon . gentleman for all his work on this issue over a number of year . will the Minister explain why Fujitsu , whose IT software be at the heart of this scandal , continue to win Government contract , include a recent extension to a Post Office contract worth £ 42 million ? those decision be make by other , not by I , so I can not comment on those specific case . the hon . Lady raise an interesting point . to be fair , in this country people be still innocent until prove guilty , and it be right that due process be follow and guilt establish before we make decision on how we treat company or individual down the line . like I , she would like to see the full result of the Williams inquiry as soon as possible , so that we can determine blame . decent , honest people — postmaster — have have their life ruin and be put in prison , and they be now be make to wait year for justice and compensation . the public inquiry also expose racism and discrimination at the Post Office ' s Fujitsu - run IT help desk during the Horizon scandal . will the Minister outline what the Government be do with regard to the appropriateness of Fujitsu win public contract in future ? I deal with that question a second or two ago . it be right that the presumption of innocence be follow until prove otherwise , and the Williams inquiry be look at Fujitsu ' s role in this , as well as the role of individual in the Post Office and elsewhere . with regard to the document he refer to , clearly that be inappropriate , and the Post Office have apologise for it . that document , among other , form part of the Horizon inquiry , which will need to establish the full fact before we decide what action to take . I commend the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) and other who have assiduously pursue this matter and doggedly ensure a Government response . I know of postmaster who have lose their shirt because of the dreadful scandal . while it might be acceptable to push the date back on paper , in reality that could mean more default on payment and loan , and further humiliation for those people who have be tar as dishonest , when we all know they to be decent and honourable . can something be do to ensure that those who need it the most now have access to their reparation , as that will help they on the road to recovery from the trauma that they be feel at this moment in time ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman for speak out about this matter on a number of occasion . one of my constituent — Sam Harrison of Nawton near Helmsley — pass away prior to receive full and fair compensation , and that situation should never have be allow to happen . interim payment be available , so some compensation be available . in the terrible situation where somebody have pass away , that compensation will still be pay to their estate . that be slim comfort of course , and the hon . Gentleman ' s central point that we should get the money out the door as quickly as possible be one I totally agree with . some individual who have already be compensate have be devastate to find that a significant portion of that money have go straight to pay back creditor . they be then in the position of have to make a second compensation claim , suffer additional stress and anxiety . what talk have there be about ensure that any payment make be sufficient to cover all expense , as well as properly compensate individual for their hardship and loss , without the need for additional claim ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her question , and I be happy to look at any specific case . if she be talk about those who be bankruptcy claimant , Sir Wyn in his report agree with our view that insolvency practitioner should not be able to take a share of group litigation order compensation . we have take advice from specialist counsel on how good to deal with that issue , and we will look to take further action on that in due course . comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade if she will make a statement on the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership . the Secretary of State for Business and Trade sign the accession protocol to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership on Sunday 16 July in Auckland . the UK will be the first new member since CPTPP be create . with the UK as a member , CPTPP will have a combined gdp of £ 12 trillion and will account for 15 % of global gdp . accession to the agreement send a powerful signal that the UK be use our post - Brexit freedom to boost our economy . it will secure our place as the second large economy in a trade grouping dedicate to free and rule - base trade . it give we a seat at the table in set standard for the global economy . the agreement be a gateway to the wide Indo - Pacific , which be set to account for the majority of global growth and around half of the world ' s middle - class consumer in the decade to come . that will bring new opportunity for british business abroad and will support job at home . More than 99 % of current UK good export to CPTPP country will be eligible for zero tariff . the UK ' s world - lead service firm will benefit from modern rule , ensure non - discriminatory treatment and great transparency . that will make it easy for they to provide service to consumer in other CPTPP country . in an historic first , join CPTPP will mean that the UK and Malaysia be in a free trade agreement together for the first time . that will give business well access to a market worth £ 330 billion . manufacturer of key UK export will be able to make the most of tariff reduction to that thriving market . tariff of around 80 % on whisky will be eliminate within 10 year , and tariff of 30 % on car will be eliminate within seven year . join CPTPP mark a key step in the development of the UK ' s independent trade policy . our status as an independent trading nation be put the UK in an enviable position . membership of that agreement will be a welcome addition to our bilateral free - trade agreement with more than 70 country . I pay tribute to the many official and minister who have work on this deal over the past two year , some of whom be in the Chamber today . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question . the Government publish a write statement yesterday that the CPTPP have be sign on 16 July . unfortunately , member have not have an opportunity to scrutinise the agreement , or to ask the Secretary of State question about its impact . the CPTPP contain controversial provision that will potentially undermine british health and safety standard , as well as those in place for the environment and animal welfare . organisation from trade union to the RSPCA have express their concern . it be apparent that clause in the arrangement will allow large company to sue the UK Government behind close door if they believe that their profit have suffer from change to law or regulation . palm oil produce in Malaysia will have tariff of 12 % eliminate , include from area that have be deforest . there be apparently no mechanism to ensure that import of palm oil have be sustainably produce . on food standard , the agreement exclude egg as a sensitive sector , mean that egg product will be allow to be import from country that be CPTPP member , but where egg production rely heavily on battery cage hen , which be outlaw in Britain in 2012 . for other animal product , sow stall , the use of antibiotic , hormone treatment and pesticide that be outlaw here will all potentially be import in great number . import that have a low production cost but a much high animal welfare and environmental one , risk undermine our world - lead british farmer and food producer . the Business and Trade Committee , which provide important scrutiny of the process for free trade agreement , produce a report last week that lament its inability to scrutinise all element of the trade agreement . I have the follow question for the Minister . what step be his Government take to ensure that the british public can be sure that the food they buy have be produce to the food safety and animal welfare standard that they rightly expect , such as those of the British Lion code of practice ? what estimate have he make of the long - term impact on british farming of this agreement , which will bring an increase to gdp of only 0 . 8 % over a decade ? I be disappointed that the hon . Lady do not see the opportunity for farmer and for this country as a whole from CPTPP . if she share the confidence in british producer and british service that we have on the Government Benches , she might be able to look at this deal with a glass half full , rather than a glass half empty , but I know that would be a fundamental change of attitude . the hon . Lady be simply wrong in many area . it be important that we stop peddle these myth about standard relate to CPTPP or any trade deal we be do . let we be clear that this deal do not lower any UK product or quality safety requirement . the import standard and import rule that we have the day before we join CPTPP will be exactly the same the day after . the deal do not alter safety standard , but give we an opportunity to engage and talk with colleague and friend around the world on how we would like to improve and work on important issue , such as the environment , which she mention , and there be indeed an environment chapter . for example , the UK be commit to tackle illegal deforestation within UK supply chain , and this deal will not change that . as part of conclude cptpp , the UK and Malaysia have issue a joint statement to reaffirm and strengthen joint work to support sustainable production , particularly of palm oil , in our supply chain . despite what the naysayer on the Opposition Benches might say , be it not true that this deal benefit county and nation across these isle and give our farmer the opportunity to export to part of the world that will pay a premium for their great product ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right , as always , and I thank he for his work in make this deal a reality too . he be absolutely correct that this deal create opportunity across the whole range of food and beverage , include Scotch whisky , which I have already mention . this deal should be welcome by Scotland for the opportunity it give , but in many area of food we be open up market , such as in dairy produce . he be absolutely right to point out that we estimate that CPTPP will bring benefit to every single nation and region of the UK . I would hope today that we hear about those positive stride on CPTPP from all those in the Chamber who represent different part of the country . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I congratulate the hon . member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) on secure this urgent question . we on the Opposition Benches be pro - trade , pro - business and pro - worker , and we welcome the opening up of new market for UK exporter . I have meet representative from the CPTPP signatory and make clear to they our commitment to drive up trade . however , we now must scrutinise the full detail of this agreement because , with this Government , the devil be always in the detail . what provision be in place to ensure the high possible worker ’ right and that UK worker be operate on a level playing field ? the Minister mention the sustainability agreement with Malaysia . can he tell we exactly how that will deal with the concern raise on palm oil ? can he also tell we whether the Government have put in place any side - letter , as the Government of New Zealand have do , to exclude the operation of the investor - state dispute resolution mechanism ? can he confirm that the agreement will not undermine the Windsor framework ? on China ' s application to join CPTPP , what approach will the Government take to safeguard british interest ? we have raise the issue of the scrutiny process on free trade agreement many time . can he set out what the scrutiny process will be ? the Government ' s own modelling suggest that this accession will add 0 . 08 % to GDP . at the same time , the OBR predict that export will fall by 6 . 6 % this year — a hit of more than £ 51 billion . promise trade deal with the US and India be not even in sight . be it not the reality today that we have a Government out of idea and bad at negotiate , and it be the economy that suffer ? I be sorry to hear the opposition yet again never miss an opportunity to talk Britain down . this be a great opportunity for business right across the UK . already , CPTPP country sustain about one in 100 job in the UK , and that will only go in one direction — it will increase because of the opportunity , include in investment , that open up . the shadow Secretary of State mention investor - state dispute settlement . there be coverage of ISDS . it be a good thing and it help ensure confidence in international trading and international investment . he mention China . he will be well aware that we be not yet fully ratify member of CPTPP , so it would be inappropriate for we to comment on any individual application . however , what I can say be that we know after two year of negotiation what an incredibly high bar exist on membership of this fantastic organisation . do my hon . friend agree that this be not only an important trade deal , but an important geopolitical event that allow Britain ' s share value , which the labour Prime Minister of New Zealand and the labour Prime Minister of Australia say they share , to be bring to the partnership and to strengthen the partnership as it go forward ? my right hon . friend be make a powerful and important point about the importance of pivot to the Indo - Pacific , where there be so much global growth . we want to be part of that growth . I thank he for the incredible work he do as one of the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy . as well as more trade , this deal will lead to further co - operation . when we trade with country , we talk to they more , we have agreement and discussion on a whole range of issue , some of which go beyond the strict term of a trade agreement . there be many opportunity to come out of this deal , and I be pleased that many member on the Government Benches recognise they . I call the shadow SNP spokesperson . it feel unnecessary to repeat this , but this Government seem willing to sign up to any trade deal . my party be in favour of good one , and we be against poor one , and that be why we oppose this deal . [ interruption . ] the concern that we have , despite the heckling from those on the Government Benches , about the lack of mechanism to safeguard worker ’ right and about the potential impact on domestic standard , particularly in the agrifood sector , do not go away with blustery repetition and flat contradiction , which seem to be the stock - in - trade in all that Government Front Benchers have to say about this deal . the Secretary of State get aerate whenever it be point out that the Government ' s own figure show that GDP be estimate to increase by only 0 . 08 % over the next 10 year as a result of the deal , at the same time as the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast a 4 % hit to gdp through Brexit . minister have have an awful long time to find out what the figure actually be , if they do not believe that 0 . 08 % figure . without reference to vague opportunity , the number of middle - class consumer in the Pacific rim or the gdp of country in the CPTPP , and without deviation , repetition or hesitation , what exactly will the impact be on UK GDP as a result of this deal ? again , I be disappointed to see the hon . Gentleman talk negatively about a deal that will benefit Scotland as well as all other part of the United Kingdom . it will add significant amount . we estimate that in the long run , at least £ 2 billion a year will be add to the UK economy , include in his constituency . perhaps he would like to welcome that , rather than be negative about it . also , this be a grow area of the world . there be likely to be new member , so we anticipate considerable opportunity go forward . in Scotland , 547 business be already own by CPTPP country , employ more than 20 , 000 people in Scotland . perhaps he would like to welcome that . as someone who have serve as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy for the past seven year in Chile , Colombia , Peru and Argentina , I warmly welcome this announcement . I urge the Minister to make sure we be use the time between now and finally join CPTPP to make sure that in the sector that we think will be hugely beneficial to we , we be ramp up that british industry presence and be work with his Majesty ' s trade commissioner for the area to identify opportunity . I thank my hon . friend for his work as a trade envoy as well as all the trade envoy for the important work they do . he make an important point : sign the deal be one thing , but we need to ensure that it be use . the Secretary of State have say that again and again . we will be make sure that there be full benefit , use export support service and all the training , trade adviser and so on to promote the deal , as we have with the Australia and New Zealand deal , because it be important that we get the full benefit of the deal and maximise those benefit right across the country . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . UK car manufacturer be currently change their supply chain to buy component from either the EU or the UK so that they can continue to export their car into the EU . however , under CPTPP , those same company ought to be buy part from Vietnam to export their car to Mexico . that be quite confusing . will the Department publish guidance for business that highlight the regulatory conflict between trade with the European Union under the trade and co - operation agreement and trade with member of the CPTPTPP ? sorry — you know what I mean . [ laughter . ] it trip off the tongue eventually . the hon . Gentleman be underestimate the opportunity , but he have give I the chance to point out one of the key benefit of CPTPP , which be cumulation , with product and part be use — of course , supply chain can be complex across CPTPP — and still benefit from the low tariff . so there be huge opportunity with CPTPP for the reason that he outline . I congratulate the Minister as well as all the Ministers who have contribute to this significant moment , with the UK strike a trade deal with some of the world ' s fast - grow economy . do he agree that this provide a great opportunity for all part of the United Kingdom where we have significant strength in term of drive export ? what action be he plan to take to promote the trade deal all around the UK so that manufacturer , food producer and other supplier take the opportunity that he have provide ? I thank my right hon . friend . again , I really appreciate the recognition that the deal will benefit all nation and all region of the UK . in Wales , for example , there be currently 281 cptpp - own business employ more than 16 , 500 people , and we expect that to go up . there be trade opportunity in so many area cover both good and service . that be a really important point : as we negotiate a lot of trade deal around the world , one thing we notice about many of the deal do by the EU on our behalf be that they do not cover service , yet service be over 70 % of our economy , so it be great that we be now negotiate deal that fit our modern economy . even if the world be flat — for the benefit of the Minister ' s Back Benchers , it be not — the Pacific would still be very far away compare to Europe , so how do the deal benefit fresh seafood producer and shellfish producer on the west coast of Scotland who can not get their fresh produce into the much - close european market as a result of Brexit ? how on earth be they suppose to get that fresh produce even more quickly halfway around the world ? again , I be sorry to hear hon . member conflate different point . we have leave the European Union — that be a democratic decision — and we have a good free trade agreement with the European Union that will continue . CPTPP create opportunity in area of the world with considerable growth where we do not previously have deal . surely the hon . Member must recognise that that be a positive thing right across the country , include for his constituent ? this be good news . I be delighted that the Government have sign up to this huge trade partnership . we be the first non - found member to have do so . while it may not be in the convenient party political interest of some Opposition Members , it be very much in the national interest and , dare I say it , in the interest of Shropshire business — small , medium and large — who will now be able to export tariff - free or towards tariff - free to place such as Malaysia and Vietnam . what progress , if any , have the Minister hear about the United States potentially join the partnership as well ? that , of course , would be a huge boon to everybody . my hon . friend make an important point about the role that small and medium - sized enterprise can play . we be work to encourage even more sme to export through export support service and the trade adviser network give the opportunity that this and other deal will present to they . he will be aware that the US be not enter into free trade agreement with anybody at the moment . I have speak to congressman and woman in the US , and there be mixed view , but many have great enthusiasm for the CPTPP . despite all the Government fanfare , the CPTPP trade deal will contribute merely 0 . 08 % to our country ' s gdp over the next decade . laughably , the Secretary of State be now dispute her own Department ' s modelling . as part of the spring Budget , the OBR forecast say that in 2023 , due to Government incompetence , the hard Brexit and failure to sign other free - trade deal , UK export be set to fall by 6 . 6 % . that be a staggering £ 51 billion hit to our economy . how exactly will the Minister compensate for that loss with respect to the signing of the new CPTPP deal ? again , I be so disappointed to hear Opposition member never miss an opportunity to talk Britain down . CPTPP will benefit every nation and region of the UK , to the tune of billion and billion of pound — [ interruption . ] the hon . Member say that be tiny , but if we put it in his bank account tomorrow , he would probably be quite happy . we be talk about huge amount of money and lot of job right across the United Kingdom . it would be great to see the opposition support one of these deal , which will benefit their own constituent , at some point . I join other in congratulate the Secretary of State , her predecessor and all the Ministers involve in deliver this excellent deal , which , as have be say , be really good news for the UK . it be depressing to hear Opposition Members ' comment ; they clearly have little confidence in british company . business in the Yorkshire and Humber region will certainly benefit from the new deal . will the Minister elaborate a little more on how he see those business be able to take advantage of it ? I thank my hon . friend for his work in championing international trade over many year . he be right that sign this deal and other deal be one thing , but we must ensure that business be aware of the opportunity . therefore , we will be , and be already , work through export support service , trade adviser and other programme to ensure that we take full advantage of the opportunity available . we want business large and small , some of whom have probably never export before , to realise that there be a whole world of opportunity out there in the EU , but also way beyond that . great emphasis have be place on the diplomatic benefit that the UK will see through join the cptpp . what further step be minister take to cultivate positive diplomatic relation in the Indo - Pacific region ? there be multiple way in which we be do so . in fact , the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Berwick - upon - Tweed ( Anne - Marie Trevelyan ) , be do exactly that right around the Indo - Pacific on an ongoing basis . as well as advance our trading opportunity , there be many opportunity to have discussion on a wide range of issue that concern we and our constituent , whether that be the environment , labour right or a whole bunch of other . some of those be part of trade deal , but many go beyond they . we have discussion across multiple Government Departments on those issue . I thank the Government for this excellent announcement and congratulate all of those who have make it possible . it be beyond question that join the cptpp be absolutely the right thing to do . may I please ask the Minister what message he have for the doomster who think that Britain should not have a global role , who think that Britain be in permanent decline and who think that we would be well off back in the European Union ? the message be quite simple : life be well with the Conservatives in charge . let we not be churlish — this be a good deal and the Government deserve some credit for it . I sometimes despair when I hear those negative comment . when something be good , let we say that it be good . in the light of this tremendous deal secure by the Business and Trade Secretary , will the Minister further outline how his Department will work with fcdo Ministers to ensure that such deal far the aim and term of our moral duty and international obligation ? again , I congratulate the Minister and the Government on their hard work well achieve and a deal do . I thank the hon . member for his always gracious and consider comment . he be right that we be committed to ensure that all nation and region of the UK benefit from this deal , include Northern Ireland , which be do great thing with export opportunity . in fact , there be a Northern Ireland investment summit come up and , therefore , many opportunity . we will work constantly with the Administrations to make sure we take full advantage of this and all deal . I congratulate my hon . friend and everyone involve in secure this deal . the impact of export service across the world be clearly vital . will he outline the advantage for the service deal available , particularly to London and the digital economy , which can be reach from anywhere in the world ? my hon . friend make a sensible point that be pivotal to our future trading arrangement . we be the second big service exporter in the world . those service be increasingly be transport , and therefore physical distance do not matter — they can be deliver at the press of a button . we have an excellent reputation on those . he make the point about London ; more than 3 , 000 business be own by CPTPP member , and over 100 , 000 job be reliant on those business . that will only increase over time . it be important to stress that London be benefit from our relationship with CPTPP member , but more than 75 % of the benefit be outside London . in contrast to the negativity from the Opposition Benches that ooze across the Chamber , I positively welcome my hon . friend ' s update . be there anything comparable in recent history or down the track as good as the agreement and partnership that have be enter into ? let we bank this agreement for the positive benefit it will bring . my hon . friend know I be a yellowbelly , and Lincolnshire people always talk common sense , as do he . there be a lot of opportunity , but this be one of many deal we have already sign and ink — more than 70 since we leave the European Union . we be in negotiation with many area include India , Switzerland and other . importantly , we be focus on service as well as good , because some of those deal do not cover service at the moment . in the 1975 European Economic Community referendum campaign , Barbara Castle ask : " what kind of internationalism be it that say that henceforth this country must give priority to a Frenchman over an Indian , a german over an Australian , an italian over a malaysian ? this isn ' t the language of internationalism … it be Euro - jingoism . " do my hon . friend agree that , with the signing of the partnership , the era of Euro - jingoism be dead , and once more we be truly an international trading power ? my hon . friend speak eloquently and be absolutely right . Europe will continue to be an important trading partner of the United Kingdom , but there be a whole world out there that we have not yet take full advantage of . the Government be commit to work on behalf of our constituent to recognise the benefit from around the world , through our relationship with Commonwealth country and develop country that can significantly benefit from international deal . the EU will continue to be important , but there be a whole new world out there and we want to be part of it . Defence Command Paper Refresh with permission , I would like to make a statement on the publication of our refresh defence Command Paper . it be just over two year since we publish the original Command Paper in March 2021 . in those two year , our security have be challenge in so many way . this be Defence ' s response to a more contested and volatile world . in the last four year that I have be Defence Secretary , I have be consistent about the reform I have seek to implement . I want Defence to be threat - lead — understanding and act on the threat face our nation as our sole mission ; not protect force structure , cap badge or much - love equipment but ensure that we be focused on challenging threat . I want the Ministry of Defence to be a campaigning Department , adopt a more proactive posture , and our force more forward and present in the world , with a return to campaign assertively and constantly , push back those threat and our adversary . I want Defence to be sustainable in every sense . for too long , Defence be hollow out by both Labour and conservative Governments , leave our force overstretch and underequipped . we must match our ambition to our resource , our equipment plan to our budget , and take care of our people to sustain they in their duty . we must never forget the travesty of the Snatch Land Rovers in Afghanistan . the 2021 defence Command Paper be true to those principle and , with some tough choice , present an honest plan for what we can and will achieve : a credible force , capable of protect the nation , ready to meet the threat of today but invest heavily to modernise for those of the future ; a force in which every major platform would be renew by 2035 , from armoured vehicle to dreadnought submarine , frigate to satellite . we do not plan on issue a new Command Paper just two year on . many of the conclusion of that Command Paper remain right : Russia be and be the great threat to european security , and China ' s rapid military modernisation and grow assertiveness in the Indo - Pacific and beyond do pose an increase challenge to we all . however , I have always say that as the situation change , we must change with it . since the first dcp be release , the world have shift once more , from a competitive age to a contested and volatile world . the technology advance we predict materialise . the threat and challenge we fear have manifest . there be no more immediate threat than Russia . its full - scale invasion of Ukraine be not simply an assault on a proud and sovereign nation but an attack on all our value , european security and the open international order on which stability and prosperity have depend for over three quarter of a century . right now , the people of Ukraine be suffer the tragic consequence of President Putin ' s illegal , unprovoked invasion . his naked aggression and imperial ambition have play out in a tragedy of epic human suffering . the brave citizen soldier of the armed force of Ukraine be protect their own nation and people , quite heroically take on the once mighty russian force . the whole House recognise that they fight not just for their freedom but for our . they be not just liberate their homeland but defend the rule - base system . as Defence Secretary it be important to import the lesson learn from the conflict to our own force . while I wish such lesson be generate in a different way , the conflict have become an incubator of new way of war . they be prove the way for warfare in the 2020 — whole of nation , internationally partner , innovative , digitise , operate with a tempo , precision and range requirement and a recognition that there be a trade - off between assurance level and operational impact . I be proud , too , of the role the UK be play in support Ukraine , whether provide equipment , training or political support , or galvanise european and international ally and industrial partner to do likewise . but the return of war to the continent of Europe , alongside grow threat elsewhere in the world , have mean that we must sharpen our approach . the integrated review refresh publish in March outline how we would do that . it would shape the global strategic environment , increase our focus on deterrence and defence , address vulnerability that leave our nation expose and invest in the UK ' s unique strength . defence be central to all those effort . that be why , after three decade in which all party have continue draw the post cold - war peace dividend , this Prime Minister reverse that trend and provide Defence with an additional £ 24 billion over four year . he and the Chancellor have go far since , in response to the war in Ukraine . next year we will spend over £ 50 billion on defence for the first time in our history . that be nearly £ 12 billion a year more cash investment than when I become Defence Secretary in 2019 — a real - term increase of more than 10 % . this Government have commit to increase spending yet far over the long term to 2 . 5 % of GDP , as we improve the fiscal position and grow our economy . our defence plan , and the armed force to deliver they , must be robust and credible — not fantasy force design , unfunded gimmick or top trump number . as Russia have so effectively prove , there be no point have parade ground army and massed rank of man and machine if they can not be integrate as a single , full spectrum force , sustain in the field under all the demand of modern warfighting . that take professional force , well equipped and rapidly adaptable , support by critical enabler and vast stockpile of munition . that be why in this document , hon . member will not find shiny new announcement , comms - lead policy drive unsustainable force design or any major new platform for military enthusiast to put up on their chart on their bedroom wall . we stand by the Command Paper we publish in 2021 but we must get there fast , do defence differently and get ourselves on to a campaign foot to protect the nation and help it prosper . as I say stand here when DCP21 be announce , we owe it to the man and woman of our armed force to make policy reality . the work be just begin . in this refresh , we have focus on how to drive the lesson of Ukraine into our core business and on how to recover the warfighting resilience need to generate credible conventional deterrence . the great advantage of have serve in Defence for some time be that my ministerial team and I have now take a proper look under the bonnet . consequently , we be clear that our strategic advantage derive from four key source which require urgent prioritisation . first and foremost be our first - class people . our man and woman be not just brave and committed , but talented and incredibly skilled . they be our real battle - win capability . it be our duty to ensure they be as well support , prepared and equip as possible , so we be go to invest in they . last year , I commission Richard Haythornthwaite to conduct the first review of workforce incentivisation for almost 30 year . it be such good work that we be incorporate the response into our Command Paper , and today I be unveil a new employment model and skill framework for our armed force . it will offer our people a spectrum of service that allow far great career flexibility , make it easy for military personnel to zig - zag between different role , whether regular or reserve , or between the civil service and industry . we be transform our force ' overall employment offer by adopt a total reward approach to provide a much more compelling and competitive incentivisation package . since all our armed force personnel deserve the good quality accommodation , we be inject a furth £ 400 million to improve our service accommodation in the next two year . many of we over Christmas will have be frustrate by the poor support our service personnel and their family receive from those task with look after their accommodation . it be for that reason that I have withhold their profit and use the money to freeze for one year only the rent increase our personnel be due to pay . take together alongside such initiative as wraparound childcare , they be intend to enrich career and enhance the ability of our most talented people to keep protect the british people , and to ensure they be reward and fulfil while they do so . our second priority be far strengthen our scientific and technological base . we be already world leader in specific area , but to continue outmatch our adversary we must stay ahead of the curve in digital , datum and emerge scientific field . in 2021 , we say we would invest £ 6 . 6 billion in advanced research and development . in fact , we be now invest significantly more to stay ahead in the technology prove themselves vital on the battlefield of Ukraine , such as AI , quantum and robotic . we be enable a culture of innovation across Defence , pull through those R & D breakthrough to the frontline . follow in Ukraine ' s footstep , we be increasingly source the £ 100 solution that can stop £ 100 million threat in their track , win both the kinetic and economic exchange of modern warfare . of course , our ability to do that depend on the quality of our relationship with the industry , which be our third priority . I be push the Ministry of Defence to form a close alliance with our industrial partner . a genuine partnership to sustain our defence will mean do thing differently . Ukraine remind we that time wait for no one . it be no good hold out for the 100 % solution that be obsolete by the time it be launch . often , 80 % be good enough , especially if it mean swiftly put kit into the hand of our service personnel . capability can be rapidly upgrade , spirally develop , for the relentless cycle of battlefield adaptation to win the innovation battle . instead of stick to acquisition programme that drag on for decade , we be set maximum delivery period of five year for hardware and three year for digital programme . our fourth priority be productivity and campaigning . to face this increasingly contested and volatile world , we need to make major change to the machinery of the Department and its method . we be emphasise an ethos focus ruthlessly on the delivery of real - world effect , increase the bang for buck in everything we do . this approach reach into every part of the Defence enterprise , from the front line to the back office , and involve a major redesign of the Department . we must shift our whole organisational culture away from the previous peacetime mentality to one where we live and operate as we would fight , focus more on output than input and achieve a well balance between risk and reward . that mean empower people to live and operate alongside partner , and sometimes to be enable by they when in low threat environment . that mean ensure our equipment , whether Type 31 , Challenger 3 , or Typhoons , have the infrastructure and supply need to sustain operation more of the time and to deliver real - world effect wherever and whenever it be need . and it mean work with the relevant regulatory authority , for example the Military Aviation Authority , to accelerate the experimentation , testing and innovating of new technology , while remain within legal bound . I want to emphasise one final aspect of the Command Paper refresh , namely the development of a global campaigning approach . we start with a review of our head office , where we break out campaign delivery from policy formation and establish integrated campaign team . they have adversary focus , not geographic , and will drive our endure campaign in the same way operational commander lead our force on deploy operation . the indivisibility of operational theatre in today ' s world mean Defence must be constantly ready to respond globally to safeguard our interest and those of our ally . sometimes it will be to evacuate our citizen in moment of crisis , such as in Sudan . other time it will be to deter an adversary or reassure a friend . as we have show through our support for Ukraine , the UK Government have the political will , but that only matter if it be match by our military agility . today , we be establish a defence global response force . ready , integrated and lethal , it will well cohere exist force from across land , sea , air , space and cyber , to get there first in response to unpredictable event around the world . crucially , today ' s paper also recognise that it be in the interconnected world and that the UK be unlikely to act alone . partnership be critical to our security and prosperity . in future , we will be ally by design and national by exception . our support for NATO will remain iron - clothe , but we will continue to prioritise our core relationship . we will invest in deepen relationship with our new partner . it be why we have invest to expand our global defence network , improve communication , and co - ordinating defence attach é s within our intelligence function . none of that be headline - grab stuff , but it be the fine detail that make the difference to our national security . to conclude , the paper be the result of have several year in the Department to understand where it need most attention . that continuity in office be improve and I be incredibly grateful to the long - serve Minister for Armed Forces , my right hon . friend the Member for Wells ( James Heappey ) , whose experience in uniform and public office provide the basis for this paper . we be grateful to the hundred of individual and group who contribute to the first challenge phase of its drafting , from academic to serve personnel and industry representative , not to mention the many member of this House . Most of what we learn from they be encapsulate in the document . this be likely to be one of my last appearance at the Dispatch Box . it have be the great privilege to serve as Secretary of State for Defence for the last four year . I thank my team , civil servant , special adviser and Members for their support and their challenge . all of we here have the common interest of defend this fine country , its value and its freedom . of all the many function of Government , Defence be the most important and be more important than ever , as the next 10 year will be more unstable and insecure . the man and woman of our armed force be second to none and Britain ' s place in the world be anchor in their professionalism and sacrifice . I believe we will increasingly call on they in the year ahead . we must ensure that they be ready to answer that call . I wish they and whomever replace I well . I commend the statement to the House . I thank the Defence Secretary for the advance draft copy of his statement and welcome some element he announce today that be not in that draft copy , such as the improved childcare package and the rent freeze for armed force personnel . follow the Defence Secretary ' s decision to stand down , I want to start by pay tribute to his time in this House . he be a political survivor . I remember that his first job in 2010 be as parliamentary private Secretary to Ken Clarke , and for the last four year he have be a dedicated Defence Secretary . in particular , I want to recognise his work on Ukraine , and that of the Minister for Armed Forces , the right hon . member for Wells ( James Heappey ) . his decision on send military support to Ukraine , get other nation to do more and declassify intelligence have all be beneficial for Ukraine and for Britain . today , the Defence Secretary be present his plan for the future of the british armed force at a time when , as he tell the House this afternoon , we have " the return of war to the continent of Europe , alongside grow threat elsewhere in the world " . as his own future be now short , how long be the shelf - life of his plan ? industry and military leader can not be sure that his successor will agree with his decision , will accept his cut , will act on his approach ; and they can not be sure how the strategic defence review plan of both his party and mine after the next election will reboot defence planning . it do not have to be this way . labour want this to be the nation ' s defence plan , not the plan of current Conservative Defence Ministers . we offer to work with the Government on a plan to make Britain secure at home and strong abroad . this be not such a plan . it be not a good enough response to war in Europe . it be not enough to accelerate support for Ukraine , to fulfil in full our NATO obligation , to halt the hollowing out of our force , and to renew the nation ' s moral contract with those who serve and the family who support they . why have this defence plan be so delay ? it be 510 day since Putin shatter european security . since then , 26 other NATO nation have reboot defence plan and budget . in the time it have take the Defence Secretary to produce this long - trail new defence strategy , Finland have carry out its own review , overturn decade of non - alignment , increase defence spending by 36 % , apply to join NATO , and see its application approve by 30 Parliaments before last week ' s NATO summit in Vilnius . that successful NATO summit have make the alliance strong and support for Ukraine great . we fully back NATO ' s new regional plan and the G7 long - term security commitment to Ukraine , and if UK military aid be accelerate in the come day , that too will have labour ' s full support . there be a welcome " back to basic " element in this plan — a focus on stockpile , training , service condition and more combat - readiness — but it be clear that the plan be drive by cost , not by threat . it be drive by the real cut in day - to - day resource departmental expenditure limit spend that the Defence Secretary agree in November 2020 , and by the failure to secure the £ 8 billion extra that he say be need in the spring Budget just to cover inflation . where be the halt in further cut in the Army , while NATO plan an eightfold increase in its high readiness force ? where be the commitment to fulfil in full our NATO obligation ? where be the action plan for military support to Ukraine , first promise by the Defence Secretary in August last year ? where be the programme to reverse record low level of satisfaction with service life ? where be the full - scale reform of a " broken " defence procurement system for which the Defence Committee call on the very day the Defence Secretary announce that he be step down ? in fact , it be hard to tell from his announcement today what have change . the £ 6 . 6 billion for defence research and development be promise in the 2021 integrated review , the " global response force " and force level cut be announce in the Secretary of State ' s defence Command Paper 2021 , and the " strategic reserve " be recommend by Lord Lancaster in 2021 . as the right hon . Gentleman step down as the Conservatives ' long - serve Defence Secretary , will he accept that many of the big challenge be be leave to the next Defence Secretary , and to the next government ? finally , as we may not see he again at the Dispatch Box , may I , on behalf of Members in all part of the House , wish he well in his post - parliamentary career ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his kind comment . unfortunately for he , I will , however , be here again tomorrow , deliver my very last statement . I understand what the right hon . Gentleman be say , but this be the refresh of the defence Command Paper . it be not a complete redrawing of a strategic defence and security review . we have do those , periodically , so many time , and so many time they have be publish under government of both party , and so many time they have not have real funding attach to they . so many time we have reach the end of the SDSR period , under Labour and conservative Governments , with black hole , with unspent money and overspend . it have happen time and again . but this be a report to make we match - fit : to ensure that , whether we have 3 % , 2 . 5 % , 2 % of gdp , we have the reform that , in my view and , I hope , that of my successor , will help we to deal with the grow threat that we face in the decade ahead , and will also reflect the lesson that we have see in Ukraine . the right hon . Gentleman mention Finland ' s defence review . he will know that Finland and Sweden periodically conduct a fix in - Parliament , in - schedule review . that be how it will always be . those country ask a parliamentary committee to carry out the review , and then hand it to their Defence Ministries to implement . that be their process . Finland ' s review be not trigger by anything specific , and the fact that it produce that review before I do this refresh be not a benchmark ; it have be predict and profile . I will say , however , that long before Sweden and Finland join NATO , I be the architect of last January ' s security pact between the UK and those country . that be because I recognise that they be our friend and our ally , and while they be not in NATO , it be inconceivable that we , as Britain , would never come to their aid should a more aggressive Putin attack they . that be the beginning of the process of develop our strong relationship with they . the right hon . Gentleman talk about defence procurement . I have read the report produce by my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) , and I thank he for it . many of the thing in it we be now do . I give credit to he , obviously , for his report , but some of its observation have also be mine — observation about sro , about 75 % and 50 % , about a spiral development cost ; observation that the House have hear from this Dispatch Box about gold - plating and the over - speccing that have too often drive price through the roof , and be a cumbersome thing . [ interruption . ] let I say this to the Opposition Members who be heckle , and who have be Ministers in this Department . they will know that of all the Departments to serve in , this be not one that move at the great speed of reform . the process of reform take time , and member need only look at the record of every single former Minister to know how hard it be . that do not undermine their contribution , and it do not make any of they less of a Minister , but this Department of 220 , 000 people , a Department that seek every authority through a ministerial chair , be not — and I have serve in a number of Departments — the quick to change . no doubt the right hon . Gentleman , if he succeed in his ambition to be the next Defence Secretary or the one after next , will learn that all too well . what I promise he , as I will promise my successor , be that I will not come to this House and pretend that the problem with which my successor be deal be make the week before . they be make 20 , 10 , 15 year before . that be the truth of many of the policy and procurement challenge with which we deal in this Department . I believe that the Command paper will stand the test of time because it be about face the threat — and that be the answer to the right hon . member for Wentworth and Dearne ( John Healey ) . for the record , we be about to lose one of the good Defence Secretaries we have ever have . he will be sorely miss in this House , and in the Department . he know that we have discuss what be wrong with defence procurement on many occasion , and he know that the Public Accounts Committee and the Defence Committee have publish a number of report say that it be break . the most recent , entitle " it be broke — and it ' s time to fix it " be publish only last Sunday , and on Tuesday we see the DCP refresh , whose acquisition strategy have effectively accept some of the 22 recommendation in our report within 48 hour . I humbly submit that that be some kind of world record for a Select Committee report . however , the proof of the pudding be in the eating . let I , in all seriousness , encourage the Defence Secretary , when he do his handover to whoever succeed he — accompany by his excellent team of junior Ministers — to impress on his successor the fact that we really do need to bring about this reform , not just for industry and not just for our armed force , but for the whole security and defence of the realm . and with that , we wish he well . I thank my right hon . friend for his work on the report and for his campaigning . let I also say , however , that procurement have start to improve . in 2009 - 10 , the average time delay on a project be 28 % ; it be now 15 % . the average cost overrun be 15 % on a project in 2009 - 10 ; it be now 4 % . the direction of travel be improve . the number of civil servant at DE & S go from 24 , 000 to 11 , 000 , so we be cut away the bureaucracy and the direction of travel be improve . [ Official Report , 4 September 2023 , Vol . 737 , c . 1mc . ] in my time as Secretary of State for Defence , I be also determined to put to bed some of the problem project that we be all inheriting . I be pleased to say that , as I speak , Ajax be back on track and start to be deliver to the unit . the unit be start to train in it now . we could all have a discussion about whether we would have choose Ajax all those year ago , but fundamentally it have not cost the taxpayer any more money and it be be deliver to our frontline . I be determined to put that right , or take other step to deal with it . that should always be the case . the other thing that I have always try to do , which be not in the document but which I recommend in defence procurement , be to never defer — either delete or deliver . if you defer , it cost hundred of million of pound . defer the aircraft carrier cost £ 1 billion under the Labour Government . defer the F - 35 cost £ 500 million . deferral create the black hole . Delete or deliver , but don ' t defer . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . I too thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of a draft statement , albeit that there be one or two addition on delivery . I also , perhaps pre - emptively , join in wish he well in whatever come next . although I have not directly shadow he , I certainly pass on those thought from my hon . friend the Member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) , who have work closely with he over a period now . I will start on a positive note . I welcome a number of the point make . I very much welcome the fact that people be put front and centre . that be absolutely critical in anything we do in defence . People be what make it work , and if we be not support the man and woman of the force , what be we do at all ? there be probably that more we can do , even beyond this . while it will not surprise Ministers to hear I say that we need to support those serve , we also need to continue to look at what we be do to support our veteran . I know that the Minister be work on that , but it be an area in which we need to try to do more . I also welcome the recognition of some of the accommodation condition . I welcome the fact that step be be take and matter look at , but that need to be move forward at a great pace . I note that the Secretary of State say we be go to spend over £ 50 billion for the first time next year . I wonder whether he can tell we how much of that be simply down to inflation create by this Government . I be not try to be awkward , but that be clearly quite a significant factor . we have also hear of the ongoing and long - last issue around procurement , with report show that roughly £ 2 billion be waste each year in fail equipment programme and cancel procurement contract . be the Ministry of Defence make the necessary reform to make its procedure well , and will they deliver value for money ? recruitment and retention issue have be flag up ; the Haythornthwaite review clearly highlight those . be the right hon . Gentleman confident that the step be take now on the skill agenda will be the necessary action to address recruitment and retention issue ? finally , the Haythornthwaite review highlight cyber capability as a major issue . be the right hon . Gentleman confident that the step be take and outline today will do enough to deliver that capability in the way that we all want to see ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , and grateful for his party ' s support on Ukraine . on the Haythornthwaite review and skill , right across Europe and the west we be see recruitment challenge in the military . I be with my New Zealand counterpart recently , and my canadian counterpart , and they too have a challenge . the skill shortage across society be big , and it be no different in the armed force , which be why we have to adapt rapidly and tackle some of the challenge . on procurement , as I say , the figure have start to improve . yes , there be challenge , and we could spend a whole day debate the reason for those challenge . complex procurement be not as straightforward as many people think , and the hon . Gentleman will know from the Scottish Government ' s procurement issue that it be not straightforward to deal with . I certainly believe that if we invest in the people and be prepared to invest in continuity — if instead of have the senior responsible owner who help manage our project here today and go tomorrow , we ensure that they be there for the long term and link their incentive to success , and help they manage our project — we will have a well chance of deliver well value for money . may I express my admiration for my right hon . friend ' s dedicated and distinguished service as Defence Secretary ? it be a sad commentary on the state of the special relationship that our american ally do not recognise his suitability to be the next Secretary - General of NATO . my right hon . friend will remember that successive Defence Committees , well before the invasion of Ukraine , argue that defence expenditure should never have be allow to fall below 3 % of gdp . the present Chancellor of the Exchequer , when he be stand for the leadership in 2019 , even express the wish that it should be at 4 % of GDP , which would have take we back to the cold war percentage of between 4 % and 5 . 1 % of GDP spend on defence . in what way do this refresh allow defence the potential to expand quickly if that extra money be belatedly make available ? I be very grateful to my right hon . friend . long before I be do this job , he be campaign for defence to be properly apportion the funding it deserve to keep this country safe , and I pay tribute to he for that . he have fight for that for many year . should there be an increase in funding for defence — and I seriously hope that there will be , base on our Prime Minister ' s 2 . 5 % pledge — and if we invest in our specialty and our skill , we can expand our armed force when the threat increase . find a way to hold those skill on the book even if they be rarely use , be why it be important to develop a single armed force Act . currently we have legislation that say that if you want to join the reserve from the regular , you have to leave the regular and join a separate legal entity — the reserve . that prevent soldier from go backwards and forwards and people from be mobilise in the way we want . we want to introduce a single armed force Act . we think this will help we do that . skill be at the core . the second thing be the investment in rapid procurement — the ability to keep headroom in the budget to respond to the late threat as the adversary change . the third be make sure that we invest in sustainability and enabler , because there be no point in have all the frontline vehicle if you can not get anywhere . I know it be consider bad form to speak ill of the dead , even the politically dead , but frankly the Secretary of State ' s contribution be pretty thin and full of clich é s , and fundamentally an admission of failure — of 13 year of continual cut by this Government . let I take just one example , which be touch on in the report . it be clear from allied exercise that in any major conflict we would run out of artillery munition within a week , and the Ukraine invasion reinforce that . so why have it take until this month for the Secretary of State to sign the contract to replace those artillery shell ? it be very clear . first , the right hon . Gentleman might actually understand that sometimes the supply chain have to be reinvigorate . when we place an order for the nlaw — the next generation light anti - tank weapon — it turn out that the optic have stop be make 10 year before . you can ring up all you like and try to place an order the next day , but until the manufacturer source the supply chain , it be not go to happen . but what I do be ensure that I place the order in the United Kingdom — in the north of England and in Wales . that factory will start produce 155 mm shell . I have give it a long - term contract of half a billion pound to start supply our force . by the way , the stockpile of our ammunition start deplete around about 1997 . I thank my right hon . friend for his clarity , his calmness , his wisdom and his fortitude . we will miss he . it be clear that the tectonic plate of geopolitic have shift and make the world a much more dangerous place for country such as the United Kingdom and other that believe in freedom and democracy . how will his new global response force help we and our ally be able to react more quickly and nimbly when crisis arise ? because we know that they will . an important lesson from Ukraine be to make sure it be digitally glue together , and to make sure its command and control be not as vulnerable as it use to be . it should have a lot in the rear , a long way away — perhaps thousand of mile away — with only its headquarters forward . we should make sure we invest in the enablers to move it around the world , the continent or wherever it need to be . that will help . at the moment , the provisional layout of the global response force be a light brigade and 16 Air Assault Brigade , support by a logistical support brigade . this will give we a whole range of opportunity , include meet our NATO commitment . should we wish to do something else with it , we will be able to deliver . as defence spokesperson and deputy leader of the DUP , I thank the right hon . gentleman for his honourable and gallant service to our armed force . as the Member of Parliament for Belfast East , I thank he for reinvigorate shipbuilding in our country and for support Harland & Wolff . I thank he for his commitment to Thales and NLAW , and to the utility it have prove in Ukraine . as a member of the Defence Committee , I thank the right hon . gentleman for use our Sub - Committee ' s report on soft power and for the benefit I see in his statement on engage defence attach é s more thoroughly and appropriately with the intelligence network . we can see that the document before we build on and augment the refresh . in recognise the right hon . Gentleman ' s four year well serve , may I ask he whether he believe this document will not only give our armed force the good chance to embrace the future but will ensure that his positive contribution leave a last legacy ? this be about make sure the framework be match fit for any expansion and for the future . it be also about invest in hole such as re - stockpile , and make sure that , over time , we spend £ 2 billion , and then another £ 2 billion , to make sure our stockpile be back where they should be — in fact , even more money to do that . that will be good news for the like of Thales and NLAW in Belfast , for the 155 mm shell factory in Washington and north Wales , and for our industrial base such as MBDA in Stevenage and Bolton . it will all be about invest in our sovereign supply chain while , at the same time , make sure we sometimes make a difference not in the obvious thing but in the behind - the - scene that make our armed force so ready . I commend my right hon . friend for his service and dedication as Secretary of State , and I wish he well for the future . as a fellow infantryman , he will know there be sometimes no substitute for boot on the ground if one want to command that ground . give that the 1922 defence committee submit a paper to the defence Command Paper refresh express concern about hollow out , can he assure we that this hollow out will stop and that cut to the Army , in particular , will stop ? what assurance can he give that not only will it stop but we will have scope to build on those number ? ultimately , an Army of 72 , 000 and fall be simply not large enough , give our commitment . we can argue about size , but we have to make sure that whatever we put in the field be properly equip and enable , and be effectively 360 ° . that be really important . we therefore have to be honest about the size of our defence budget envelope . there be no point pretend that we can have huge number without a defence budget to match . I have be determine throughout my tenure that this be not purely a number game , and I know my hon . friend get that . many of his suggestion be incorporate into this Command Paper , because the lesson of Ukraine show that , yes , we need infantry and tank , but also that we can sometimes dominate the ground without even be there . the proliferation of cheap drone and the use of highly accurate artillery allow few people to cover or dominate more area . I go to see a frontline corps commander in Ukraine , and he have nearly 1 , 000 cheap unmanned aircraft system at his disposal every day . at any one time , he might have 80 or 90 up in the air , which give he the ability to dominate ground without necessarily have mass . I get that , ultimately , the ground have to be take , but let we make sure the people who take the ground be properly protect and equip so they can hold it , otherwise russian force will take the ground and kill they . may I first thank the Secretary of State for his service ? we have know each other for 20 - plus year , and he have always be a strong advocate for defence . he say in his statement that in 2019 he get a 10 % increase for the defence budget . he fail to tell the House that one of the problem he face be the 16 % cut , from 2010 to 2019 , in the defence budget . the Command Paper say that the first priority be homeland defence and our NATO commitment . it also announce a new global response force . how can we commit to do both well without substantially increase the defence budget ? I be grateful for the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment . we both go to Washington in 2006 to lobby for a waiver from the International Traffic in Arms Regulations and we be very close to get it . that be my point , if you think this Department be quick and easy . I have hair back then . if we get the ITAR waiver over the line , it will be one of the thing I will be proud of . it be possible to have a global response force and to dedicate it to NATO . we allocate our NATO force by give they to the Supreme Allied Commander Europe , but those force be able to be use elsewhere , unless he call on they . that be often how we do it , so it be perfectly possible to have a global response force , with element of it elsewhere if it be not call upon by the Supreme Allied Commander Europe . of course , if NATO call on the force under article 5 or something else , that will be the priority . our force , more often than not , be absolutely dedicated to NATO and the security of Europe . I thank the Secretary of State for his impressive , no - nonsense leadership . it be always great to see a Minister who know his brief so well . it have be 12 year since the Levene report give great power to single service , but we be now move in the opposite direction , with great integration , full - spectrum effect , hybrid war , joint effect — call it what you will — link up the military but also the military and other tool of state power . do the Secretary of State think Levene be still fit for purpose ? what would he recommend that this House and his Department do about it ? my hon . friend make an important observation about Levene . I do not think Levene be fit for today . part of Levene have not work . I do not see the tlb , or the Army , Navy and Air Force take the responsibility we hope they would take when their programme do not work . examine whether joint force design should move back to the centre , where these thing will be at the core of the MOD , will be important . on other part of Levene , it be important to make sure that the centre have a role in hold our armed force to account . the Command Paper have a commitment to start review that process . I thank the Secretary of State for his service . where I have agree with he , I have say so , not least on his work to support Ukraine , but perhaps his big legacy be that he agree to and oversaw a huge cut of 10 , 000 in the Army , which I believe seriously weaken our armed force . I want to test whether this document be more than warm word . page 89 say " we will step up our effort to deliver an Integrated Air and Missile Defence approach . " when will that happen ? I be just look up page 89 , which say that , to counter these threat , " we will step up our effort to deliver an Integrated Air and Missile Defence approach . " we be do that across NATO , integrate with NATO , and work with the Germans and the French . we be already start that . we have sign up to the process . [ interruption . ] we be start it now . last month , we start to examine what Europe and NATO need to have the right integrate air defence to protect its territory . the starting point be to find out what we need . there be no point in we rush out and buy long - range air defence missile if the long range can be do from a ship in the channel . there be no point rush out and buy very short range if we be not deploy from our basis in Tidworth . so , first , we have already start do the overall survey of what need to be do . secondly , we have start invest in our next generation of GBAD — ground - base air defence — our medium - range air defence capability . and we have recognise that we be short of our long - range air defence capability by invest — [ interruption . ] we be already do it . I do not know where the hon . Gentleman have be for the past two year . if he actually pay attention to this , he would realise that we have start invest in the extend - range missile for the Type 45 ; we have start increase the number of battery of our GBAD ; and we have manage to export our GBAD to Poland in a £ 2 billion export deal . so we have start this , but the first thing to do be recognise that we put together the right profile of air defence because , as he will know , it be layered , so we have to get the right layer . if we do not get the right layer , we look like some of those country such as Russia , which just buy big profile thing that can not talk to each other and then they get whack . may I begin by thank my right hon . friend for his service and leadership ? do anything in this Command Paper address the barrier and bureaucracy that be hinder ukrainian defence manufacturer and british defence manufacturer from collaborate effectively together ? such collaboration would help the Ukrainians to liberate their country and enhance our own capability and supply chain . there be certainly an odd thing that I observe in the Department : I can not understand why the procurement speed and delivery in our Kindred , our operation to gift and support Ukraine , can not be normal for we . I see our procurement in parallel . some of that be about assurance . if we be go to fly drone over people in this country , we require much high level of assurance ; the Civil Aviation Authority and so on absolutely require that . when you be in war , some of those level can drop . some of it be simply about that , but in other area it be one lesson we be look at through Defence Equipment and Support to understand how we can bring that into our main procurement and delivery . the Secretary of State know that I be not a defence expert , although I have a great interest in it . I be bear in the same week as the bad bombing of London , which take place not far from here , close to the day on which this place be bomb , and my father serve in the last war . I have watch the Secretary of State over the year he have be in this House and I have a lot of regard for he . we have become quite good friend , which we be still allow to be across party in this House . he be not perfect . I have be a consistent critic of our go below 100 , 000 man in our Army — I have a long track record on that — but he be a well Secretary of State for Defence than many I have see on those Benches . do he realise that we be not daft on this issue ? how could a Prime Minister and a Government allow a man of his stature as Defence Secretary to go at the critical time , when there be a war in Europe ? all hell be break out on our planet and we lose a good Defence Secretary . what have happen with the Prime Minister and the little clique around he ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind comment . I have always like both spar and discuss defence with he . importantly , many of we across the House understand that defence be a core function of a Government . it be not a discretionary spend stick on the end ; it be ultimately the core responsibility of a Government . I know that come the next election the battleground between these two Front - Bench team will probably not see defence in it . we all know that . many of we around this House who have campaign for more defence will know that the election will come down to school , hospital , transport and everything else . the casualty of that be often defence , and we stop make the case to our citizen and our constituent as to why it be important . I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , who always remind people on this side of the House and , certainly under the previous leadership , in his party of the importance of defence . I have a fantastic team and there be plenty of amazing civil servant , military leader and everyone else who will do just fine without I in this job . I believe it be President Lincoln who say , " the cemetery be full of indispensable man . " I , too , pay tribute to my right hon . friend . I be extremely disappointed that he be step down because he have be an excellent Defence Secretary . as he say , people be at the centre of our armed force , so this refresh , with its focus on people , be welcome . Rick Haythornthwaite ' s report make some excellent recommendation , so I be pleased that the defence Command Paper reflect that . can my right hon . friend confirm that accommodation be an absolute priority because that be the big thing that every member of the armed force bring up when we go to visit ? it absolutely be . the House have hear I say that I have take the profit from those company ; I have nationalise more thing than any previous Defence Secretary , so perhaps I be put up a job interview for the opposite side — [ Laughter . ] this be absolutely about look after our people . I be determined to do so : if these company could not provide the service , why should our people take the hit ? there be an extra £ 400 million to go into that . some of we will have see the legal test we have try on Annington Homes to make sure that we re - enfranchise this . it be all very important . if we can not give the people who work for we the skill , future and lifestyle they deserve , they will not be join we . I want to start by recognise the Secretary of State ' s leadership on Ukraine and the wide threat from Russia . he make reference to the grow range of threat across the globe and how the UK often have to respond to those . may I invite he to go a step far , reflect on how the MOD can work with other Departments in Whitehall and how the UK can work with its international partner on early intervention and prevention , understand the driver of conflict — for example , gross human right abuse , climate change and lack of international aid — and see how we can get ahead of the curve in some situation ? the original defence Command Paper absolutely build on that . on the resilience building of nation such as , sadly , Mali , if we can get in early enough and help those country with security , complement aid and complement work on counter - radicalisation , education and poverty prevention , we can help prevent those conflict . one message I give the Treasury be , " that small amount of investment save we a lot of money far along . " the conflict , stability and security fund — the Foreign Office and MOD funding — be a really good piece of work , where we often fund a range of issue that deal with that . I be happy to write to the hon . Gentleman to give he detail of that fund . I thank the Secretary of State for his regular visit to David Brown Santasalo Gears in Huddersfield , in my constituency , which be in the supply chain for the Type 26 frigate and for our submarine . it also provide world - lead gearbox for our armoured vehicle and tank . do he agree that it be important to have resilient regional supply chain to deliver the equipment we need to tackle change global threat ? yes , absolutely . I be delighted to visit David Brown — it be the famous David Brown of the Aston Martin David Brown in Huddersfield . when one go there , one realise the importance of not only keep the skill base go , but make sure that we have a clear pipeline of order and pathway to incentivise those company to invest in the next generation of machinery . if they do not feel incentivise , they will not invest and when we need they at a time of war , there simply will not be anything there . as I say about some of the rearming of our stockpile , restimulate the supply chain take year and it be incredibly important . it be also important to recognise that the aerospace industry be pan - United Kingdom ; it go across the UK and be everywhere . People do not often realise that it be not just in Lancashire , part of which I represent ; it be in mill town , in Scotland and in Wales — it be all over the place . the defence pound really do help the british economy and secure british job across the UK , include in Northern Ireland . the Secretary of State be a thoughtful man , and today he have announce that we be go to be spend £ 50 billion on defence , at a time when every other Government Department be under financial pressure . he have also say that he predict that this country will be at war within seven year . do he have any idea or process to bring about more peace and rapprochement in the world , and less military threat ? or be we go to go on , year by year , increase expenditure on defence and potentially be involve in more and more military conflict ? do he have any idea different from that ? the right hon . Gentleman know I fairly well . we once spend a nice week in Iran together , with the then Member for Blackburn — I be the most pro - european of the three , I remember . I be not out look for war . we be all out here try to defend our nation by avoid war , but we do not avoid war by not invest in deterrence . sometimes we have to invest in hard power , to complement soft power . we do not want to use it and we do not go look for it . I know the right hon . Gentleman mix with some people who always think this be about warmongere ; it be not . but if country be not take seriously by their adversary , that be one of the quick way to provoke a war . I congratulate my right hon . friend on an extraordinary four year as Secretary of State for Defence , in which he have do his duty above and beyond . he will be sorely miss . I welcome this refresh , particularly the point he make about the global campaign and how it might complement aid . with regard to our service personnel , who do so much for we in the field of conflict , how might we recognise they in term of campaigning , when they be away for extended period of time ? what be the Ministry of Defence go to do to ensure that they be recognise for the extraordinary service that they provide ? our man and woman be motivate by lot of thing . the state often show its appreciation , not only when they be serve , by the x - factor — the wraparound — but also by medallic recognition . one of the thing that have take quite a long time in my tenure be the creation of the wide campaign medal . I be still wait for the final approval by those medal committee , but it will recognise people ' s contribution to a campaign that keep we safe . a good example of that could be the continuous at - sea deterrent , which be an endure campaign . campaign that reflect modern war mean that not everyone be on the frontline . People hundred of mile away be contribute to keep we safe , and they sometimes need to be recognise , not just the person pull the trigger or storm the bunker ; it go all the way back . in today ' s military , the pyramid be very big and very deep , and hopefully a wide campaign medal will recognise that . I pay my own tribute to the Secretary of State for his service and thank he for the personal courtesy that he and his official have show I on a number of occasion . he have rightly be focus on the major geopolitical threat and risk to our own security and that of our ally , but he will also know the importance of watch the flank and rear . whether it be the western Balkans , the Sahel , which he mention , space , the polar region or the non - geographical domain — in cyber , artificial intelligence and those issue — he know that the range and diversity of threat be increase . give that , be he convince that we have the number of personnel right ? I have no doubt about the commitment of our troop in all those area and capacity , but the number be simply not there to deliver on that diversity and range of threat . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that , as the threat rise , we should respond and design our force to meet whatever be the threat of the day . do I think 73 , 000 be enough to meet today ' s threat ? I do . do I think defence need a great share of public spending ? yes , and that be what the Chancellor say in the autumn statement . do I think we need 2 . 5 % of gdp ? yes , that be what I have campaign for and what I have achieve . I do not have a timeline , but I know that be the direction . should we get the extra money , what be important about it be that it will prepare we to have a range of choice , depend on the threat of the moment . the Army will still be over 100 , 000 people . my hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Baron ) raise the challenge . I have instruct that the Army ' s modernisation require we to protect its budget until it be modernise . it be behind the other two service and we will continue to modernise it . I think the Army have currently configure a size , but do I never say never about make it big ? we should always be prepare to change our course if the threat change . I thank my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary for his statement and for his fantastic service over many year . give the current tempo of commitment face by hm force worldwide , I be clear , as a former capability planner , that quantity have a quality of its own . it be also incumbent upon the MOD to fulfil all the expectation place upon it , both by our NATO ally and our own defence task . will my right hon . friend confirm that , post refresh , the MOD remain committed to a fully deployable , scalable and sustainable armoured division at readiness ? yes , we be committed to that , but we have also be honest about the time need to get to be able to do that . our force family be make to live in damp , mouldy service accommodation , with broken boiler . in his statement , the Secretary of State speak about rent freeze , but well over 4 , 300 troop already do not pay rent because their accommodation be so bad . he say that there would be no unfunded gimmick , so be the £ 400 million in two year for service accommodation new money or be it from exist budget and commitment ? have listen to the hon . Lady , for example , we have take money that be allocate elsewhere and decide that make sure those house be in a well state be more of a priority . we have housing stock that go back many year and be a challenge . one of the challenge I have be that I unfortunately have to pay almost £ 20 , 000 a house to a private finance initiative that Gordon Brown sign we up to , even when those house be empty . I commend the leadership of the Secretary of State over the last four year , not just in our response to the war in Ukraine , but in secure a record financial settlement from the Treasury . I welcome the new employment model and skill framework . will he outline how that will far facilitate collaboration with employer , such as BAE Systems on the Fylde coast , and offer new opportunity for recruitment and retention ? the Ministry of Defence recognise , as do the defence industry , that skill be important . about two week ago , I spend a great afternoon at the National Cyber Force , up at Samlesbury , with further education college from around Lancashire , include Blackburn and Bolton , and Greater Manchester , which come to bring young people amazing opportunity . we recognise that if we invest young , we will get the skill we need . it be absolutely the case that without the skill , defence will be starve of the oxygen we need to do our job . I , too , wish the Secretary of State well and thank he for all that he have do . while I welcome the £ 2 . 5 billion additional investment in stockpile and the improvement to readiness , he will know that unless we have highly train service personnel in place to use they , then they be useless . the refresh document say : " People : our most important asset . " in relation to people , the UK now have the low number of soldier since the napoleonic war , which I think be quite dramatic . will the Secretary of State strategise to increase our strength in number , to recruit young and capable people who want to defend this great nation , the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? on the plane , I sit next to a guy from Belfast who be 20 year old . he have sign up to the Army for 25 year . he want a future — can we give he that ? that young man will have an excellent future in the armed force , for as long as he wish to stay . the Army be still recruit ; we have not all stop everything . it be important to remember that we need to embrace our reserve . we have talk about that for a long time , but we have not do it . a single armed force Act would help we do that . the Army will be over 100 , 000 people , of whom 73 , 000 will be regular , but I believe the reform in today ' s refresh will make sure we be scalable should we wish to increase it . whatever we do and whatever party in this House come with pledge in the next election , we must ask ourselves whether it be just about fund people or will we be fund their equipment , vehicle , house and barrack to go along with they . we can not just have people without any of that , or we condemn they to a pretty miserable time , unprotected on the battlefield . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . he have be an outstanding Defence Secretary and I wish he all the good for the future . I be aware that , under the new defence Command Paper , soldier should soon be able easily to transfer between each of the three service as well as into the civil service . what step be minister take to ensure that the civil service be a more attractive option than the private sector for talented personnel ? the military could definitely take a leaf out of the civil service ' s book . I look at how senior civil servant can flex , do step - up and step - down , take break or sabbatical , and I think , " why can ' t we do that for our military ? " why can people , if their life circumstance change , not step up or step down ? that be what we be try to do with these change in the Haythornthwaite regime . if we do that , we will match the demand of generation z . the young generation want more and more different thing . it be not just whether they work in defence , but whether they work in the civil service or in the private sector . all employer face the challenge of how they will do that and keep people long , so that they get investment both way — into their business or whatever . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . I believe that he say he might be return here tomorrow . as I have a number of Ministers here , I wish to take the opportunity to say how important it be that no announcement be make in statement that have not previously be give to the opposition . just in case I be not in the Chair tomorrow , I will take this opportunity to wish the Secretary of State well in whatever he decide to do next . Afghan Resettlement Update in March , I update member of this House on afghan resettlement and relocation . to date , around 24 , 600 individual have be bring to safety in the UK from Afghanistan , include some british national and their family , as well as Afghans who loyally serve the United Kingdom , and other identify as vulnerable and at risk . I be proud that our generous offer have ensure that all those relocate through safe and legal route have be able to access the vital health , education and employment support that they need to integrate into our society , include English language training for those who need it . on top of that , we have also ensure that all arrival have have the immediate right to work , as well as access to the benefit system . in my last update , I make it clear that this government do not consider it acceptable that , at the time , around 8 , 000 Afghans be still live in temporary bridging accommodation , prevent they from put down root in community and build self - sufficient life in this country . around half of this number have be live in a hotel for more than one year . it be time to ask our afghan friend to find their own accommodation , with the support of this Government , and to integrate into british society . the status quo be not fair to taxpayer and , crucially , it be not fair to Afghans . since March , we have issue legal notice to quit and individualised communication to household live in hotel and serviced apartment , set out when their access to taxpayer - fund bridging accommodation will end . resident have receive at least three month ' notice to make arrangement to leave their hotel or serviced apartment and clear guidance on the support that they can access to help they find their own accommodation . alongside that , we have significantly step up our support for those in bridge accommodation and to local authority , back by £ 285 million of funding , to speed up move into settle home . we have ensure that enhance , multi - disciplinary case working team have be present in every bridge hotel and serviced apartment , work closely with household to help they navigate the pathway to find their own private rent accommodation . for local authority , this funding include more than £ 7 , 000 per afghan individual to enable they to support move - ons . we recognise that local authority will be well place to understand the specific need of individual family and the local housing market . that be why we have ensure that this funding can be use flexibly and pragmatically , in line with local circumstance . over the past three month I have meet local government leader and home builder , and personally visit bridge hotel , up and down the country . I have be hearten to see at first hand the many individual , family and local authority who have hear this message and step up their effort to make use of central Government ' s generous offer and identify suitable non - hotel accommodation . some council be very effectively use this funding to offer significant support package , include deposit , furniture , rental top - up and rent advance , among many other thing . I encourage local authority to share this good practice throughout their network . as I have say before , this be a national effort , and we all need to play our part . that be why I be also urge landlord to make offer of accommodation by either speak to their local council or make an offer via the online Afghanistan housing portal that we have set up . this online form have be develop so that landlord and private individual can make offer of accommodation directly , which be then share with potential tenant . we be interested in property of all size and currently have a particular need for one - bedroom property and large property to help accommodate family across the UK . since my last update , we have see many hundred of individual leave their hotel and move into settle housing across the UK . although progress have be make , there be more to do . I have outline the generous support package that this Government have put in place — and example of the commitment and resourcefulness that I have see from both Afghans and local authority to rise to this challenge . in return for this generous offer , we expect family to help themselves . as far as possible , we want to empower Afghans to secure their own accommodation and determine where they settle , work with the caseworker available in every bridge property to do it within the limit of individual affordability . I see no reason why anybody live in a hotel today should not be able to make use of their right to work and access to benefit and the flexible funding available to local authority to find suitable , settle accommodation and live independently of central Government support . I wish to make it clear today that the Government remain committed to end access to costly hotel at the end of the notice period that we have issue to afghan individual and family . for some , this will be at the end of this month . everyone will be expect to have leave bridge accommodation by the time their notice period expire . there will , however , be a small number for whom time - limit contingency accommodation will be provide , include where there be a need to bridge a short gap between the end of notice period and settle accommodation be ready for they to move into , and in case of medical need where a family member require continue attendance at a specific hospital . everyone else should be finalise their plan for move on from bridge accommodation . I repeat my call to our afghan friend and local authority : they must access the support that the Government have make available before the expiry of their notice period to leave bridge accommodation . I be write again to all local authority , remind they of the funding stream available to help find settle housing solution for Afghans who remain in bridge accommodation , as well as the new stream of accommodation become available shortly . I implore they to draw on this support and match as many household into settle accommodation as possible . Central Government be do their part , and local government must do its . this be the right thing to do , both for the taxpayer and for those Afghans who risk their life on our behalf and deserve the opportunity to live self - sufficiently here in the UK I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . none the less , I have to say to he that this statement be not up to the quality that this House expect from a Minister on such an important issue . the Minister have be send here to update the House , but in his statement he have give we no precise number of Afghans who be currently in bridge accommodation , no number of those he expect to stay in the time - limit contingency offer , and no estimate or detail . Madam Deputy Speaker , this be really poor . this House deserve well than a statement that be light on delivery on such an important programme . we need to understand the detail of what the Minister be try to explain . he be a Cabinet Office Minister come to update the House when Defence Ministers should be here explain why the afghan relocation and assistance policy be fail to deliver , when Home Office Ministers should be here explain why the afghan citizen resettlement scheme be fail to deliver , and when Levelling up , Housing and Communities Ministers should be here explain why we do not have sufficient home for those who be be move out of bridge accommodation in the middle of a housing crisis . the Cabinet Office Minister in the Chamber be the bailiff serve the eviction notice . this be not good enough . I fear that he be a human shield for the failure across Government . the statement today confirm what we already know : the Government be fail to support those people who serve alongside our force in Afghanistan . in a few week ' time , it will be two year since Operation Pitting begin , but there be still a backlog of 60 , 000 ARAP application . operation Warm Welcome have become operation cold shoulder , with 8 , 000 Afghans be tell that they will be force out of temporary accommodation by the end of the summer . can the Minister tell we on what date the notice period expire ? what day will Afghans no long be able to stay in bridge accommodation ? we owe a debt of gratitude to all those Afghans who be loyal to Britain and who serve british aim in Afghanistan , and fail to find they appropriate accommodation and then kick they out on to the street be no way to repay that debt . the reality be that the Government have fail to keep the promise make to our afghan friend , and that be shameful . since 1 December last year , just four ARAP eligible principal , along with 31 dependant , have be process and arrive in the UK out of the thousand who be wait . that leave thousand of Afghans flee the Taliban stick in hotel in Pakistan without hope or proper support . can the Minister clarify the exact number of Afghans who have be rehouse into settle housing in the UK ? how many home be available for Afghans to move into ? how many do he expect will be make homeless by the eviction notice that he have serve on these Afghans ? I know that the Minister ' s personal experience in Afghanistan must weigh heavily upon he as the Government evict so many Afghans from hotel , but we owe the people who be be evict a debt of gratitude , and we owe it to they to keep the promise that we have make . minister must fix the broken ARAP scheme , which along with the ACRS have be plague by failure . People in fear of their life have be leave in Afghanistan , housing promise have be break , and processing staff have be cut . from the ballooning backlog to the breach of personal datum , and even the Ministry of Defence tell applicant that they should get the Taliban to verify their ARAP application document , the record be shameful . the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs be be use as a human shield to deflect failure from the Ministry of Defence and across Government . how many ARAP eligible principal remain in Pakistan , and how many hotel be still be use as temporary bridging accommodation for afghan family ? will he publish constituency datum so that all member can understand whether he be evict people in their community ? he mention the afghan housing portal . how many landlord have sign up to it , how many have use it to house Afghans , and what promise by the Ministry of Defence have be keep in speed up and process ARAP case ? I do not doubt the Minister ' s commitment to the people of Afghanistan , but this be not good enough . the promise that we make as a country be serious and solemn . those who have flee from Afghanistan deserve our support and gratitude . eviction notice be not good enough if there be nowhere for they to go , so can the Minister give we his solemn promise that not a single Afghan who be currently in bridge accommodation will be homeless when the date of the eviction notice that he have serve upon they expire ? I thank the hon . member for his remark . clearly , I do not think that I be a human shield for the Government . this be a particularly difficult issue . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , who grapple with this extraordinarily difficult and complex problem before I . I have to say to the hon . member for Plymouth , Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) that this be one of the most generous offering that this country have ever make to resettle national from a foreign country in the United Kingdom . since 2015 , under consecutive conservative Governments , we have welcome more than half a million people on country - specific and humanitarian safe and legal route , so I just do not recognise his portrayal of the Government ' s attitude towards those who be resettle here . we have work with around 350 local authority across the United Kingdom to meet the demand for housing . as of datum publish on 25 May , around 10 , 500 people have be support into settle accommodation — around 10 , 000 have move into home , with an additional 500 match but not yet move . the hon . member be right that , from the end of April , family start to receive legal notice to move . that be accompany by £ 35 million - worth of new funding to enable local authority to provide the increase support for afghan household to move from hotel into settle accommodation . the hon . Member have many question for I , and I will write to he on the one that I have miss , but the truth be that this be an incredibly complex issue that the entire nation have a duty to fulfil . we can sling political remark across the Dispatch Box on this issue , but we need all local authority and political leader in this country to pull together to challenge what be a very difficult situation and to try to encourage these Afghans to move , in what be an extremely generous offer from central Government , into private rent accommodation . we all have a duty not to use these individual as political pawn , but to provide they with a life in the UK that we can be truly proud of . if we all work together , we can achieve that . I welcome my right hon . friend to the Dispatch Box . I want to ask one simple question : will no Afghans , to whom we owe a debt of gratitude and honour , be make homeless during the course of this process ? I also want to ask , peculiarly , whether he have see the remark of our right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) in Afghanistan , in which he refer to Afghanistan as peaceful and stable , and say that we should welcome that . I see that an afghan woman who will remain nameless promptly write on his Twitter : " shocked . afghan woman have be throw to the wolf , and that be refer to as peace . " do the Minister agree that it be not a very welcome statement to have make give the terrible time that those woman have have and the persecution that have take place in Afghanistan ? order . can I just check that the right hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) have be inform ? I can not find he . well , really it be discourteous — with respect , Madam Deputy Speaker , this statement be make in Afghanistan and it be relevant to this Chamber . it have be impossible to contact my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East , but I hope , respectfully , that I have the right to reference his statement , because it have a bearing on today ' s ministerial statement . if the right hon . Gentleman intend to refer to another Member , he should be courteous and inform they of that , even by email , which I be sure be not impossible . he be a very experienced Member of this House , and he know that . I will email he immediately . I call the Minister . as I have say many time from the Dispatch Box , there be no reason why any of these individual should be homeless at the end of the process give what be on offer . clearly , we can not march people into accommodation if they choose to present themselves as homeless in an attempt to secure themselves some sort of other accommodation . it be very difficult to affect that . there be no tangible reason why any afghan family should present as homeless at the end of this process . on my right hon . friend ' s remark on Afghanistan and our right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) , I be clear , as be the Government , that the fall of Afghanistan to the Taliban be a tragedy of epic human proportion . I fight the Taliban myself . the Taliban murder my friend . it be clear that the Taliban represent a serious threat to human right , the treatment of woman , and all the thing that we fight for . that be the Government ' s position . that remain unchanged , and I know that colleague from across the House will join I in those sentiment . let I first clearly associate myself with the word of the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) . I be sure that the former Chair of the Defence Committee , the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , would never have go online and make the public statement that be make early today . I be dumbfound by they . I see the former Chair of the Defence Committee present on the Government Benches . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . I know from our time together on the Defence Committee that this subject be close to his heart , and that he have go the extra mile to ensure that we do well by those who risk so much alongside the UK armed force — he serve in Afghanistan , as do my brother — and Government personnel . I be afraid , though , that while the Minister speak warm word with good intention , he have come up rather awkwardly against the fact , which he have studiously avoid , that accord to Office for National Statistics figure , as I think be mention previously , only 54 people have be able to apply through his government ' s flagship afghan citizen resettlement scheme . perhaps he could come back on that . the scheme be mean to provide safe haven to the many thousand of Afghans who be eligible to come to the UK but have not be able to do so at the time of Operation Pitting . with the unacceptable backlog of Afghans currently in the country , along with the demonstrably obstructive barrier to those still suffer under the Taliban rule from come here , do the Minister not agree that it be time for a " Homes for Afghans " scheme similar to the " Homes for Ukraine " scheme , which would give central Government and local authority the impetus to ensure that permanent accommodation be find for all the Afghans whom he seek to remove from hotel ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . on the issue of ACRS and ARAP , I need to be transparent with he : my responsibility , which this statement be about , be for Afghans in bridge accommodation in the UK and get they into accommodation . the Ministry of Defence still own that ARAP pathway and I be sure will have hear his question . there be many more than 54 recipient of the acr in this country and I be more than happy to write to he to outline where they be at the moment . his last point have slip my mind — home for Afghans . yes . we be look at a similar proposal on home for Afghans as we have for Ukrainians , but they be a fundamentally different cohort . Ukrainians traditionally , and in our experience , tend to want to go back to Ukraine in the future . that be not the case with the afghan population . we be certainly look at all option ; we have set up an afghan housing portal where landlord can offer their property and we can accept offer , but all those option be in play . it be a fundamentally different cohort , but we can get there in the end . | my right hon . friend focus on what central Government have do and what local government need to do , but there be no mention of third sector organisation . what scrutiny have he give to the vulnerable person resettlement scheme , to the community sponsorship scheme and to how the charitable sector might be able to step in and assist ? I point in particular to the Southampton & Winchester visitor group , which be very active in my constituency , but it be crucial that the Government be prepared to look at all model to try to find solution so that afghan woman and child in particular , who certainly would not find Afghanistan peaceful and stable , can find peace , stability and a home here . my right hon . friend be right . if we be to be successful in this space , we will have to harness the entire estate — not only Government , local and national , but third sector provision . to be honest with she , the good practice I have see when I have visit the hotel be where the third sector be deeply embed with the Home Office liaison team , the Department for Work and Pensions and the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities official . each of those team be now in those hotel every day and , if there be charity out there who be willing to help and get involve , I ask they to contact their local Home Office liaison officer run each of the hotel . there be a lot of goodwill out there for the afghan community , and we need to harness it . third sector organisation and charity be a hugely important part of that . I recently meet an 18 - year - old constituent who be look after her 17 - year - old brother and her 10 - year - old sister . they have be separate from their parent for the past two year because , in the scrum of the evacuation , they make it on to the plane and their parent do not . what can I tell she and her sibling about the effort the Government will be prepare to make to reunite they with their mum and dad ? the chaos of Operation Pitting mean that that situation be all too familiar for different family . we be committed to reunite family where appropriate . if the right hon . Gentleman write to I about that specific case , I will look at it . to restart the professional pipeline of ARAP applicant out of Pakistan and back to the United Kingdom , it be incumbent on all of we to get Afghans out of hotel . if we can do that , we can reunite family such as theirs and they can live good , fulfil life , integrate into UK society . in May , I refer to the remarkable programme " woman at War : Afghanistan " by the courageous journalist Alex Crawford . I recommend that any Member of this House who have doubt about the enslavement of woman in Afghanistan take a look at it . refer to the resettlement within Britain , can the Minister give we a rough idea how many of the people concern be translator and thus have an adequate command of English ? I suspect the vast majority do not and , as a third - generation member of an immigrant family myself , I know that the key to successful integration be master the english language . be there anything the Minister can do to point those people in the direction of service that might be available to help they to do that ? I pay tribute to my right hon . friend for his long - stand advocacy in this space . ESOL — English for speaker of other language — course be available to every single person who come forward from Operation Pitting . I will be honest with he , however : the grasp of English be not where I would like it to be . some of these individual have be in hotel for two year ; those who have really throw themselves into the process of integration into the United Kingdom have a good grasp of English and be out work , while some , unfortunately , have not match that effort and consequently can not speak English at this time . there be clear measure build into the funding package to ensure that learn English and help this cohort to integrate into society be priority . I urge afghan family to take up that offer , because it will make their life in the United Kingdom and get a job here so much easy . I start by thank the Minister for his recent engagement and reiterate , as one of the co - chair in the all - party parliamentary group on afghan woman and girl , that he would be welcome to attend one of our meeting and speak directly to the woman and girl who join we . many of the family unit in accommodation will be head by woman . that be the reality of the devastating consequence of the conflict in Afghanistan and the brutal Taliban regime . the Minister mention in his remark support for those with medical requirement , but , give that those woman will have eld and childcare responsibility and their ability to exercise their right to work will be limited , can he provide reassurance about what additional support be be give to they by the multidisciplinary team ? each individual Afghan — not each family — be entitle to £ 7 , 100 additional funding as they move into their receive local authority . there be an ongoing programme of support for those individual . the idea that this cohort can simply be abandon when we move they out of the hotel be clearly misguided . I have visit most of the hotel now and I have not come across a lot of female - only - lead family . I have meet one or two , but where we see they , we will do everything we can to support they . I hardly need remind the Minister , as he fight in Afghanistan , but I will take the liberty of remind the House that we lose 450 personnel kill in that theatre , and thousand more , unfortunately , sustain life - change injury . the right hon . member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) be abroad on a Select Committee trip , but I have communicate with he by text to give he notice that I intend to mention he in the Chamber , so I have observe the courtesy of the House . last night , follow a visit to Afghanistan , he post an utterly bizarre video laud the Taliban management of the country — something a fellow member of the Defence Committee describe to I barely an hour ago as a " wish you be here " video — in which he make no mention of the fact that the Taliban be still attempt to identify and kill afghan citizen who help our armed force , or of the fact that young girl in Afghanistan do not even have the right to go to school under that Government . I wish to make plain , on behalf of the Committee , that he be speak for himself , even though he use the title of Chairman of our Committee in a number of associate article . not in our name . he be entitle to have whatever bizarre opinion he want , but do the Minister agree that any Select Committee Chairman who want to remain a Select Committee Chairman should be careful to make clear that he speak only for himself and not imply that he speak for a number of other people who barely agree with a word that he say ? I thank my right hon . friend for his moral clarity in this space . member must be extremely careful to identify when they be speak for themselves and when they be represent a group of individual and elect member of this House . as I say previously , the Government position remain unchanged . the fall of Afghanistan be a tragedy . we fight the Taliban for many year , and 457 british service personnel lose their life in Afghanistan in pursuit of freedom , peace and woman ' s right , none of which be find in Afghanistan today . whenever we speak about that country , we should bear that sacrifice in mind , because it be an everyday occurrence for family up and down the country . as Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , I feel that I have well be very careful in how I put this question , but I think that I speak on behalf of the Committee . in November 2021 , the then Minister for Afghan Resettlement , the hon . member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , who I see be in her place , tell the Home Affairs Committee , in relation to the resettlement scheme for afghan refugee , that the Government " want to ensure that any scheme we set up be future - proof for the people of Afghanistan " . since then , the post of Minister for Afghan Resettlement have be scrap , and its successor post — Minister for Refugees — be currently vacant . about 2 , 000 afghan refugee have be strand in third country because they be tell that there be no suitable accommodation for they here , and between January and March of this year , afghan national constitute the majority of those make dangerous channel crossing in small boat , up from 5 % in 2021 . be there plan to fill the post of Minister for Refugees , and will the Minister confirm that , after the enactment of the Illegal Migration Bill , Afghans who come across in small boat , include woman and child , face detention and removal to a third country , possibly Rwanda ? I completely refute the characterisation of the work of my hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) . get those Afghans into community be incredibly complex and it require many government agency to pull together and deliver . that be exactly what the Prime Minister appoint I to do . we be all well aware of what have happen under previous government , but the issue now be that individual be in hotel , which be not the right place for they to be — the right hon . Lady be well aware of the issue that have come about because of prolonged hotel stay . the offer that those individual have through the ARAP pathway be still open . there be no requirement to take illegal route to this country . the ARAP pathway can be apply to from third country . the Illegal Migration Bill be pass last night , and we have numerous debate on that . I be clear that this be a good offer for Afghans who serve with british force in Afghanistan , and we all need to ensure that that offer be take up and that we integrate those people properly into our society . may I thank my right hon . and gallant Friend for come to Chelmsford and meet the afghan family who be still in the atlantic hotel ? stay in a hotel indefinitely do not give stability or security to any of those family , and the Government be right to give a generous offer to help those family find themselves a home . nevertheless , my Chelmsford local authority say that the very generous £ 7 , 100 per person be not enough to find rental accommodation in Chelmsford , but it be enough to find rental accommodation elsewhere in the country . can he confirm that that amount of money can be transfer with the family should they want to go and rent elsewhere , and ensure that that process be work for those family in Chelmsford ? first , I believe that I misunderstood the premise of what the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , say . I think that she be give my hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) a hard time , but she be not — I apologise for misunderstanding . when it come to Chelmsford and various local authority , I have to be honest : I have see a wildly differ spread in the application of the policy . the truth be that in some local authority , it be an extraordinary package that be have huge success . we be see up - front payment for six to 12 month , deposit pay , and £ 4 , 000 load on to credit card for people to go out and furnish their accommodation . on top of that , the £ 7 , 100 per Afghan — not per family — move with they to that local authority . that be why there be no reason that any Afghan should remain in hotel beyond 31 August . as I say , I have not always see good application of the policy by local authority — my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) will be well aware of what I be speak about . when I take over this brief , I be very clear with the Prime Minister that we need to resource the policy correctly , and he have resource it correctly . we now need to be honest , recognise that it be a good offer and get those Afghans out of hotel and properly integrate into the United Kingdom , which be the original promise of Operation Pitting . let there be no doubt : the situation of woman in Afghanistan be dire . I know that I do not have to tell the Minister that ; he know it . since the fall of Afghanistan , I and other have be campaign for one particular group of woman : former afghan judge and prosecutor who be leave behind and be live in fear of their life , hide from the Taliban . last summer , I meet those at the fcdo , who be very sympathetic to the idea of a humanitarian visa for those woman , and on 3 May , I meet the Prime Minister , who I think seem very sympathetic to the idea . on 23 May , I be promise a meeting by junior Minister at the Home Office , but that have not yet happen . be there anything that the Minister can do — bear in mind his knowledge of the country and his appreciation of the issue — to assist I in put pressure on the Home Office to deliver a humanitarian visa for at least some of those woman ? let I take that away . I recognise the hon . and learn Lady ' s concern , and she make very valid point . my responsibility in this area be clear : to get Afghans out of hotel and embed and integrate properly into UK society . once that be do , I want to establish a professional pathway out of Afghanistan to ensure that we fulfil our duty to those we have make promise to . that be a sequential operation — I need to move the family I refer to first — but I hear what she say and will take it away . what step be my right hon . friend take to ensure that those who can not move because of ongoing and acute medical treatment be not leave homeless when the access to hotel cease ? be that something on which local authority need to do a lot more ? on local authority , the truth be that , as I say in response to my right hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Vicky Ford ) , there be a disparity in the application of the policy across the country . I have see it do extremely well . I be in Bristol , near my hon . friend ' s constituency , at the beginning of the week , and I pay tribute to Anne James , who have an extraordinary record of rehouse vulnerable people come to Bristol from across the world — that have prove to be really successful . a small number of individual receive specialist healthcare at hospital close to where they be currently house , and there will be contingency for they , but that be a very small number . for the vast majority , there be no clear reason why they should not move out of hotel . although we have an extremely generous offer , we also need to be firm — firm for the british taxpayer and for Afghans and their family — and ensure that we do this integration job properly . I thank the Minister for visit my constituency last week and meet Afghans and local official with I . he will have see clearly the commitment of the Welsh Government , Cardiff Council and the Vale of Glamorgan Council to work with his official to find a solution to this . the reality , as he hear clearly in that meeting and as I hear afterwards , be that there have be wildly different experience across the UK of engagement and delivery on the offer that he have promise . that be why some people will sadly end up need contingency accommodation , as he set out . I hope that that be a small number of people , and I know that the Minister want to do his good to get those people out . be that contingency accommodation in hotel , will there be a time limit on it , will there be a financial limit on it , and will it be in the location where those Afghans be currently house ? I pay tribute to the hon . gentleman for his engagement in the process . we have a useful — although very short , I be afraid — visit to his constituency to see the challenge there . he be absolutely right : the disparity in provision be obvious where he be . we need to work hard in central Government , as well as at local government level , to ensure that all the benefit of the scheme be play out for the family we be try to serve . I will have more to say in due course about contingency accommodation , but clearly , where individual be get specialist help at local hospital , it will be in that area . we be yet to make a decision on precisely what that contingency accommodation will look like , but as I have say from the very start of the process , I do not want to see anybody go homeless at the end of the process — nobody should be homeless . I can not march people to private accommodation and give they all the money in the world if they still do not want to live there , but there be no reason why Afghans should present as homeless at the end of this process . while there be clear concern about what the Minister have announce today , it be important to recognise that there be a two - tier system , in that many ten of thousand of Afghans be currently stick in the UK ' s asylum system . many of they have be stick there for over two year . they , too , want to move on with their life and be prevent from do so . on the approach across Government , what representation can the Minister make to his colleague in the Home Office to try to get those Afghans out of the asylum system , bear in mind that many of they will have serve with UK force in Afghanistan or otherwise help our force ? application to the ARAP scheme by those who serve alongside british force and so on can be make from a third country and at any stage . the Home Office be deal with the asylum system at the moment , and we have hear a lot about that in the last couple of day . my responsibility in this area be very clear , and that be to get Afghans who be already in hotel into their accommodation , but I be sure the Home Office will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s remark . we be aware that this be a hugely challenging space , but I hope that with this scheme , the way we have work with local authority and the third sector , and the fact that we have build an afghan taskforce for those who have already settle here and have charity work for the Government , we can set down a really clear blueprint for how we do migration that could see we properly integrate people from these vulnerable situation into british society . the Minister make it sound ever so easy , expect refugee to find their own accommodation with three month ' notice when they have be languish in hotel for nearly two year and this Government have do nothing . can the Minister confirm that no Afghan who serve alongside british troop in Afghanistan will be make homeless as a result of his decision to evict they from bridge hotel ? in Liverpool , we have 227 family likely to be put on the street . I have make request on the Floor of the House and in write to the Minister to meet I to talk about what be happen in Liverpool , and I have not have a response . I be sorry that the hon . Lady have not have a response ; I will look into that directly after this session . I be more than happy to meet at her early convenience to talk about these issue . I do not think I have ever say that this be easy or will be a simple project to achieve . it be incredibly complex . we have take around 24 , 500 Afghans out of Afghanistan since Op Pitting . that be a huge number of people to push into an already overcrowded housing market . they now have the most generous offer this country have ever make in the private rented sector , and they get an extraordinary amount of assistance . I pay tribute to all the Home Office liaison officer and those work at the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities who be on the frontline every day , try to house afghan family in United Kingdom society . I be more than happy to meet the hon . Lady to go over those detail with she . where local authority engage with central Government and my team , we be have huge success , and I encourage she to do the same . this be a difficult process , so it be inevitable that there will be significant number of Afghans who struggle to find accommodation in time . how will they be support to make homelessness application or to present as homeless ? will there be somebody physically evict people from hotel when the time come , and if so , who , and what will then happen to the Afghans and their belonging ? Central Government will stop pay for these hotel when the eviction notice run out . there will then be extra homelessness funding for those who wish to present as homeless . there be £ 7 , 100 per family to help local authority look after they and get they out of hotel or homeless accommodation and into the private rent sector . I come back to this point . I have be to see some local authority , and the no . 1 thing they have say to I be , " can we keep the hotel open ? " despite how bad that be for the afghan family and the kid who be not go to school , and the challenge it pose in the community . we have to move these Afghans on . we have to get they into private rent accommodation . there be no reason why we can not do that , and I look forward to work with the hon . gentleman in the month ahead to achieve that . the Minister ' s official recently visit my constituency , and they will be aware that there be grave concern regard the wellbeing and emotional welfare of the family involve . what additional support be the Government put in place to help with need that be not simply accommodation - related ? furthermore , it have be suggest that some of the same hotel will be stand up as contingency accommodation for asylum seeker . can the Minister respond ? be that the case ? I be not in the Home Office , so I do not know which hotel will be stand up as contingency option for asylum seeker . there be some really good practice go on in Chester , but there be also some extremely difficult situation . the truth be that , while some Afghans have do an extraordinary job of try to integrate into and relocate to the United Kingdom , I have meet some individual who have property here but choose to live in hotel and be send money back to Pakistan and Afghanistan , while get food and accommodation in this country . that be the reality of the situation . while the number of those case be small , we need to ensure that we be do everything we can to get Afghans into sustainable accommodation . I look forward to work with the hon . Lady to achieve that objective . I think the Minister for his statement . five day ago , the Government publish their 2022 " Human Rights and Democracy " report , in which they refer to pathway 3 and the commitment that be give . it be nearly two year since the fall of Kabul and 18 month since the opening of pathway 3 . in that time , few applicant have arrive in the UK . many member of this House , include the Minister , fight hard for the establishment of the pathway , which be originally intend to support vulnerable group , include ethnic and religious minority . it be promise that 20 , 000 people would be resettle in the UK under the scheme , yet it appear that the number bring to the UK so far be minimal , and application have not open for the original group . give the finding of the Hazara inquiry , detail the escalate atrocity crime and warning of a possible genocide , why have the scheme be so slow to open and process people ? the ACRS and ARAP process do not lie with the piece of work we be discuss today , but I be more than happy to take those point away . in context , this have be an extremely generous scheme . I recognise that there be an appetite to relocate everyone who serve in the afghan armed force , for example . we simply can not do that — that be half a million people . we have a special duty to those who serve alongside we and those in unit 333 and 444 who work with the UK special force community . we be do everything we can to fulfil that , but we have to be honest and realistic about what we can do in this space . all I can say to the hon . Gentleman be that the Prime Minister be absolutely determined to fulfil our commitment to these people . that be what he say to I when I be ask to take this over , and that be what he have demonstrate with the amount of money and resource he have direct at this . if we all pull together and work together in local government , national Government and the third sector , there be no reason why we can not successfully integrate this generation of Afghans into british society today . just last week , a constituent of mine who be a british citizen of afghan descent be tell that after wait year for a resolution to his family ' s case due to absurd delay at the Home Office , his five young child and wife would all be prevent from enter the UK . he be tell that the document he hold be insufficient , despite have provide dna evidence to the Home Office . the reason his require document be not in the form they should have be in be that they be damage in a devastating bomb blast at Kabul airport — something that my parliamentary staff can attest to because they be on the phone at the time of the bomb blast happen and have deal with this case from that awful day . my question to the Minister be quite simple : what be my constituent able to do about that situation ? how can he work with our Government to rightfully bring his family to this country without delay ? if that individual be eligible under ARAP or ACRS and be approve , the hon . Gentleman should write to I about the case , and I will look into it . the status of these individual be determine by the Home Office , so that be a question for that Department , but I be more than happy to look into individual case . as I have say a number of time , this be an extraordinarily complex situation ; he allude to what happen at Kabul airfield two year ago . we be determined to ensure that those we owe a duty to are bring back to this country , and I urge he to write to I about that case today . I thank the Minister for his statement . the British Red Cross be deliver information session to afghan refugee on life in the UK , digital safety , and protection and woman ' s healthcare . what step be minister take to ensure that they , too , provide afghan refugee with the tool they require for successful assimilation in the UK ? there have be a huge amount of work to make sure that Afghans have absolutely everything at their disposal in order to integrate into the United Kingdom , include funding that be flexible enough to , for example , knock through house that be build together but not sized for the big family that we see in this cohort ; english course and training ; replicate the qualification they have in Afghanistan ; and try to get they into the NHS . there be a wealth of opportunity out there for afghan family in the United Kingdom today . we must present that alongside a compassionate but firm outlook that hotel be not the place for afghan family to reside in the long term . that be why we have put so much money and effort into this . we be determined to see through our commitment to this cohort and we will get there in the end . I thank the Minister for his statement . Bill present Members of Parliament ( Oil and Gas Companies ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Richard Burgon present a Bill to require the Leader of the House of Commons to move a motion prohibit member of Parliament from receive any financial or other benefit from oil and gas company ; to require the Leader of the House to publish proposal for divestment of the Parliamentary Contributory Pension Fund from oil and gas company ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 355 ) . high Income Child Benefit Charge ( report to Parliament ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Chancellor of the Exchequer to report to Parliament on the likely effect of increase in line with inflation the income threshold for the High Income Child Benefit Charge and of determine that threshold by reference to household income instead of individual income . I thank the House for allow I to present this ten - minute rule Bill . give the timescale , I will attempt to be succinct : most member of the House will have an understanding of why I , the Democratic Unionist party , and other seek to present this Bill today . it be in the interest of fairness , something that be always critical — always key — to everything I do . the high income child benefit charge be equal to 1 % of a family ' s child benefit for every £ 100 of income that be over £ 50 , 000 each year . if an individual ' s income be over £ 60 , 000 , the charge will equal the total amount of the child benefit . that be how it be work out — indeed , that be how it have be work out since its introduction in January 2013 , with not one single change . the fact that the threshold for the charge have remain unchanged for 10 year be incredible , and not usual when it come to Government threshold . even the standard personal allowance for tax have rise by almost a third during the same period . in the interest of fairness , I should note that income tax threshold have be freeze in cash term since 2021 - 22 and it be Government policy that they will remain frozen up to and include 2027 - 28 , but in tandem with the child benefit freeze , that mean that work family find themselves even hard press to pay the bill . the question of why we be now face with an immovable child benefit threshold be difficult to answer when we consider that literally every other rate have fluctuate over that timespan . the cost of the diesel that people need to get to work be up by 30p a litre since 2013 — well over 20 % — while those who invest in electric car have see the price of electricity consumption increase from an average of £ 577 in 2013 to the current price cap of £ 2 , 500 . increase be not limit to those essential : use the consumer price index measure of inflation , the tremendous staff of the Library have work out that average price in the UK rise by 25 . 9 % from tax year 2013 - 14 to 2022 - 23 . let we take a moment to take that in — an increase of 25 % . that be substantial , and wage have not increase at the same rate . a family ' s wage may well have increase , yet they be bad off because the bill they be pay cost 25 % more . that wage increase may in turn preclude a child benefit claim , yet it be clear that , for work family , child benefit be more necessary than ever before . the question that the Treasury will be work out be this : what would the threshold be if they be uprate with inflation ? as Treasury Ministers be aware , the usual practice be that income tax threshold be uprate base on the annual inflation rate of CPI in the September prior to the start of the come tax year : for example , the threshold in tax year 2023 - 24 be determine by CPI inflation in September 2022 . base on that practice , if the threshold have be uprate in line with CPI inflation , the low threshold of £ 50 , 000 in 2013 - 14 would be £ 62 , 644 in 2023 - 24 , and the upper threshold of £ 60 , 000 in 2013 - 14 would be £ 75 , 173 in 2023 - 24 . that be what the threshold should be , but they be not — we find ourselves in a substantially different position . that be one of the reason why I have table this ten - minute rule Bill . the Government be aware of the issue ; indeed , the Minister and I have speak about it before . she be always very generous in her reply , although not always with the answer I be hope for , hence why I have table the Bill . I have raise the issue during Budget debate and other debate in Westminster Hall , and the Minister be quick to highlight that the charge affect a small proportion of child benefit claimant , namely those who have relatively high income . I think we have establish that the threshold be nowhere near the same rate that people be allow to earn when the charge be design in 2013 , so the Government must answer the question of whether it be a stealth tax on the work middle class — who can not be classify as rich by any stretch of the imagination — or to ensure that those who do not need help do not get it . the rationale behind apply a child benefit threshold have be terribly blur by the refusal to uplift that threshold in line with inflation , or indeed with common sense . the Minister have previously say that , in 2019 - 20 , only about 373 , 000 individual in the UK declare a HICBC liability , and the vast majority of those individual have income above the UK high - rate income tax threshold of £ 50 , 270 . the inference be that those people be rich and do not need help , which be quite untrue . with a CPI increase of 25 % , that argument do not carry weight for the family who pay £ 98 . 15 per week for 25 hour of childcare in 2013 , but who now pay £ 285 . 31 . that be the inflation — that be the CPI — that be the problem . if that family earn £ 50 , 000 , they certainly do not get child tax credit to help they . those people be in ordinary job , try their good to make their mortgage payment , heat their home and educate their child , without one penny from Government over their child benefit . since HICBC be introduce , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have also carry out compliance check on those who either do not register for self - assessment to pay the charge , or pay the incorrect amount on their self - assessment tax return . we start off with a few thousand people be over the threshold , but the number have escalate to 61 , 881 check on those not register for self - assessment and 63 , 713 check on those who return the incorrect amount in 2019 , before the pandemic . that be not a few family . the scale of those compliance check illustrate the difference between the time when the charge be introduce , in 2013 , and the number of people who be now expect to fill out a self - assessment form without training or guidance . they may even be pay an accountant to get it right for they , due to their fear of get a fine or a black mark . the Bill also highlight the inconsistency of the fact that a single - income home have a threshold of around £ 50 , 000 , yet a couple in a dual - income household could be earn £ 49 , 000 each — that be £ 98 , 000 in total — and still receive their entitlement . again , this show the inconsistency of the Government approach , and the reason that this House must , I believe , take the time to review the matter and get it right . our middle class be struggle . they be the one — in every one of our constituency , include the Minister ' s , represent in this place — work hard , raise their child and try to give they opportunity in their life , while all around they price have sky - rocket . they be the one who be discover how difficult it be to make end meet , and who realise that , if they gather their courage to ask for a reasonable pay rise of a couple of thousand pound , most of it will be lose in tax and that , with the miss child benefit , the struggle will continue and they will be no far ahead . they be the one that our party ' s ten - minute rule Bill be advocate for — for help and for change . we have determine that there be a minimum amount that people must have to live and to fill the gap . I can not for the life of I fathom why the only group of people we do not seek to give a hand up to be the work backbone of this country — and the backbone , by the way , of every one of the party here as well . the sum of £ 50 , 000 be not what it use to be . some people will say , " well , actually , if only we have that " , but it be the threshold I be refer to . we know that the value of money have change . that be why everyone who would have earn £ 65 , 738 in January 2013 , when the charge be introduce , now earn almost a third more , which be still not embrace by the Minister and by the Department . time have change , and so too must the child benefit threshold . I today lie this Bill before the House for consideration . question put and agree to . order , that Jim Shannon , Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson , Gavin Robinson , Sammy Wilson , Carla Lockhart , Mr Gregory Campbell , Paul Girvan , Ian Paisley , Margaret Ferrier and Tim Farron present the Bill . Jim Shannon accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 November , and to be print ( Bill 356 ) . as the House know , the House of Lords have accept all of the Commons amendment and disagreement to Lords amendment that this House send to the Lords on Monday evening and , accordingly , there be no more proceeding on the Illegal Migration Bill . we now come to motion 3 relate to Business of the House ( today ) . I call the Whip to move the motion in an amend form , leave out paragraph ( 2 ) . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at this day ' s sit — Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to ( a ) the Motions in the name of Secretary Th é r è se Coffey relate to Environmental Protection and ( b ) the Motion in the name of Secretary Chloe Smith relate to the Online Safety Bill : carry - Over ( no . 2 ) . — ( Steve Double . ) Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) bill : Programme ( no . 3 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Bill for the purpose of supplement the Orders of 24 May 2022 ( Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) bill : Programme ) and 29 June 2022 ( Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) bill : Programme ( no . 2 ) ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . ( 2 ) the Lords Amendments shall be consider in the following order : 20 , 44 , 1 to 19 , 21 to 43 , 45 to 118 , 120 to 129 and 119 . subsequent stage ( 3 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 4 ) the proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement — ( Steve Double . ) question agree to . Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Bill consideration of Lords amendment Clause 13 - conduct of review I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 20 . with this it will be convenient to discuss : government amendment ( a ) and ( b ) in lieu of Lords amendment 20 . lord amendment 44 , government motion to disagree , and government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) to the word so restore to the Bill . lord amendment 1 to 19 , 21 to 43 , 45 to 118 and 120 to 129 . lord amendment 119 , and Government consequential amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 119 . I be delighted to speak to this Bill follow its year - long passage through the other place . I pay tribute to Lord Caine for his expert stewardship of the Bill in that place , as well as to all the opposition spokespeople for their patience and engagement on the Bill . hon . and right hon . member will know all too well that the legacy of the trouble remain one of the outstanding issue since the Belfast / Good Friday agreement be reach in 1998 . as a government , we have seek to make a realistic assessment of what we can do to well deliver for those affect by the trouble over a quarter of a century after that agreement and well over 50 year since the trouble begin . I recognise , and I know the House recognise , that this be a hugely difficult task . that be reflect in the many valiant attempt make to address this issue since the signing of the Belfast / Good Friday agreement all those year ago . it be also incumbent on we to ensure that any process for deal with the past focus on measure that can deliver positive outcome for as many of those directly affect by the trouble as possible , as well as for society in Northern Ireland as a whole . we maintain that the Bill before we be the good way of do that . the Bill contain finely balanced political and moral choice that be uncomfortable for many , but we should be honest about what we can realistically deliver for people in Northern Ireland , in circumstance where the prospect of achieve justice in the traditional sense be so vanishingly small . the Bill seek to deliver an approach that focus on what can practically be achieve to deliver well outcome for all those who suffer , include those who serve , and it aim to help society look forward together to a more shared future . the Bill leave the House of Commons over a year ago . in that time , my ministerial colleague and I have hold more than 100 meeting with victim group , veteran group , Northern Ireland political party , the Opposition , the Irish Government , academic , US interlocutor and member of both Houses , in an effort to make meaningful change to improve the Bill . as a result of that extensive engagement , the Government have bring forward a significant package of amendment that provide great assurance regard compliance with our international obligation ; enhance the independence of the new Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery — I will call that by its catchy nickname , ICRIR , from here on — provide a much great focus on the interest of victim and family ; and strengthen provision relate to the process of grant immunity from prosecution to those who engage meaningfully with the commission , while keep open the possibility of prosecution for those who fail to do so . let I run through the Government ' s Lord amendment thematically , as well as our response to Lords amendment 20 and 44 . first there be conditional immunity and incentive to co - operate with the ICRIR . as I say from the outset , the aim of the Bill be to provide more information to more people than be possible under current mechanism , and we will do that by create an effective information recovery process . the commission will conduct review with the primary purpose of provide answer to those who want they , and will grant immunity from prosecution only if individual provide an account that be true to the good of their knowledge and belief . I know that be challenge for many , but conditional immunity be a crucial aspect of the information recovery process . the Government believe it be the good mechanism by which we can generate the great volume of information in the quick possible time , to pass on to family and victim who have be wait for so long . that be why the Government can not accept Lords amendment 44 , which seek to remove clause 18 and conditional immunity from the Bill . as many member of the House will know , there be a significant precedent regard limited immunity and amnesty in Northern Ireland and in the Republic of Ireland , follow period of violence . that include , follow the Belfast / Good Friday agreement , an amnesty for the decommissioning of paramilitary weapon , and limited immunity for individual who share information about the location of victim ' remain . if we look back far , the newly create irish state legislate three time between 1923 and 1924 for amnesty , dispense with civil and criminal liability for violence for UK state force , republicans and free State force . through Government amendment , we be make the conditional immunity process more robust . that include amendment to clause 18 in my name , which be agree in the other place but fall when the clause be remove from the Bill . the commission be already require to consider all relevant information that it hold when form a view on the truth of a person ' s account , as part of their application for immunity , include information obtain through a related review . through Lords amendment 49 , we be strengthen that provision by place the commission under a positive duty , require it to take " reasonable step " to secure information relevant to that assessment . the Government be far strengthen the immunity provision by introduce circumstance under which immunity may be revoke , or may not be grant . I have restore Lords amendment 60 , which make it clear that where a person apply for immunity be subject to an ongoing prosecution , immunity may not be grant if there be a risk that it might prejudice that ongoing prosecution . through Lords amendment 63 we be create a new criminal offence for those who wilfully or recklessly choose to mislead the commission when provide information . individual who be grant immunity will automatically lose it if they be convict of such an offence . can the Secretary of State confirm to the House how many ongoing IRA trial be take place vis - à - vis how many ongoing trial against member of the security service be take place ? I do not have those figure with I , but I will get they from my official and give they to the hon . Gentleman when , with the leave of the House , I reply to the debate later . build on what I be just outline , Lords amendment 62 ensure that a grant of immunity must be revoke if an individual be subsequently convict of terrorism offence or offence connect to terrorism commit after the immunity have be grant . that include offence relate to fundraising , involvement in terrorist fundraising arrangement and the encouragement of terrorism and dissemination of terrorist publication . the offender will also be preclude from obtain immunity for offence within the scope of the revoke grant . we be also disapplye the Northern Ireland ( Sentences ) Act 1998 for future conviction . that mean that individual who choose not to engage fully with the commission and be not grant immunity , but who be subsequently convict of an offence , will not be able to apply for early release and will be liable to serve a full sentence . I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) for raise that issue before the Bill leave the Commons this time last year . alongside that , have listen to suggestion in the debate in this House , we be increase the financial penalty for non - compliance with the commission from up to £ 1 , 000 to up to £ 5 , 000 , which be in line with the ask during this Bill ' s passage . the Secretary of State say that it have take a year for the Bill to go through the House of Lords — I and other campaign for four year for the Bill even to be introduce in the first place . I fear that some of the Government ' s own amendment introduce in the other place have have the effect of swinge the pendulum too far — I admit it be a delicate balance — against our veteran who serve in Operation Banner in Northern Ireland . specifically , the Bill now give the independent commission extremely wide and latitudinal power to decide whether a veteran should still be investigate , even despite the Bill ' s so - call double - jeopardy provision . the decision still ultimately lie with the commission . it also have great latitude in decide whether a veteran have comply with an investigation , which would then allow they immunity . they would not get it if the commission rule they have not comply . can the Secretary of State absolutely assure I in his heart of heart that we be not institutionalise the mechanism for a republican lawyer f , which would be totally contrary to the whole point of bring in the Bill in the first place ? I be a great believer in short and honest answer to such question , and the answer be yes . I now turn to the conduct of review by the commission and , in particular , Lords amendment 20 , which establish minimum standard for review conduct by the ICRIR to ensure that conduct be investigate to criminal justice standard , along the line of Operation Kenova . will the Secretary of State give way ? the right hon . Gentleman really do have to be pithy than he be in his last intervention . by their very nature , intervention should be short . I thank the Secretary of State for that clear answer , but could he just with a couple of sentence pithily explain why he be so confident that he be right ? I will turn to element of this later in my speech , but I refer early to the importance of the conditional immunity clause . I think what my right hon . friend will hear in the course of this debate be how many people think the pendulum have swing in this delicate balance , as he have put it , too far in the opposite direction to the way he believe it have swing . the Secretary of State will be aware that it be back in April 2017 that the then Defence Committee first recommend draw a line with a statute of limitation couple with a truth recovery process . we recognise that the process have to be for everyone or for no one . do he accept that there be a risk of have overcomplicate the process , and be any remedy likely to be available if , in put this into practice , it be find that service personnel be not be sufficiently protect for ongoing prosecution ? there be obviously no statute of limitation . the Bill have move on and , as I say , I would like to think it have be improve a great deal . but it will be an independent body that allow for these thing to happen . that be vital both in deal with the issue of the past , as my right hon . friend outline , and in help all victim perhaps to get some information about the circumstance by which they lose love one or other . we recently hold the memorial concert for the deal marine musician who be murder by the IRA bomb in Deal in 1989 . no one have ever be bring to justice for that . will my right hon . friend confirm that the process will apply across the whole of the United Kingdom ? what information can we hope might come forward that have not already do so in more than 30 year ? in answer to my hon . friend ' s first question , I confirm the geographical jurisdiction . on her second question , it rather depend on the evidence that might be hold by individual or organisation . I know that the case she raise have be subject to a number of past investigation , and there be limited information in the public domain . the Secretary of State mention the issue of all the victim . the justice that many victim want be quite clear to I and to other on the Opposition side of the Chamber . I think my hon . friend the Member for East Londonderry ( Mr Campbell ) have say that even if there be only a candle of light of a possibility for justice some day , we would all want to see that — I want to see that for all the people I know . the Secretary of State will remember how , last time we speak on this , I name every one of those people who we really feel justice be not there for . whenever he talk about justice for all , I do not see it , and my people do not see it . where be it ? it be contain within the Bill and within the independence of the commission , which will be able to conduct criminal investigation when the family ask it to do so . I have meet numerous family in my time as Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , and there be a complete range of view as to what people want when it come to seek information about what happen to their love one . I know , as I mention at the top of my speech , that the Bill will not satisfy everybody . however , lot of time have pass — the hon . Gentleman will know that well than most — and there be now a dwindle opportunity for investigation lead to criminal prosecution . People do need to have information , if it can possibly be find . fifty - one year ago , my cousin Kenneth Smyth be murder — [ interruption . ] Kenneth Smyth be murder . his friend Daniel McCormick , a roman Catholic , be also murder . fifty - one year later , there be no justice for my family and no justice for Daniel McCormick ' s family . and there be no justice for the four Ulster Defence Regiment man murder in Ballydugan , or for the young lad Stuart Montgomery , also murder . our pain be still here ; our pain be still raw . our people grieve ; my constituent grieve . the Secretary of State say that they will have justice , but we can not see justice . the people who kill my cousin — three of they — run across the border and get sanctuary in the Republic of Ireland . two of they be dead and one be still live . there be no justice . nine people be involve in the murder of those four UDR man , and one of they be dead today — it be in the paper this week — Colum Marks , an IRA commander . he be in hell , burn — the good place for he . where be the justice for my family and for my constituent ? I do not see it . the Secretary of State say we be go to have it . no , we be not . I do not see it at all . first , I completely recognise the emotion with which the hon . Gentleman have express his view . he know that I have meet a huge number of people who have reflect with passion on the people they have lose . I can not put myself in the hon . Gentleman ' s shoe — I would not try to — and nor can I right the wrong of something that happen 51 year ago . the hon . Gentleman ' s family have go without justice or much information for 51 year . he know that , unlike he , there be family across the piece , some of whom be his constituent , who have not have any information about the circumstance in which they lose love one during the course of the trouble . this Bill be definitely not perfect . but after 51 year , should people choose to use the power of the independent commission in this legislation , they might just able to get some information that allow they to remember their love one in the appropriate way . my heart go out to the hon . Gentleman . I know that this be an imperfect Bill for he , but it might just work for some other . this piece of legislation be a difficult balancing act . I be talk about Lords amendment 20 , which raise a number of important issue that have be address by Government amendment table in the other place and for Commons consideration . we can not accept any amendment that seek to make every review a criminal investigation . the legislation rightly ensure that the independent commission , via the commissioner for investigation , have the flexibility to determine if and when it be appropriate to utilise police power during the course of its review . a one - size - fit - all approach require criminal investigation in all case would remove such flexibility and significantly increase the likely time to complete review , far delay the provision of information for many family . I point to a case raise with I in oral question only a few week ago by my hon . friend the Member for Wrexham ( Sarah Atherton ) , should anyone not believe that such investigation be useful . far , in case where the investigative duty under article 2 or 3 of the convention apply , a criminal investigation may not be sufficient mean of discharge that duty . that be because there may have be failing by the state that contribute to a death , but which be not themselves criminal in nature . lord amendment 20 also seek to introduce a reference to compliance with the european convention on human right . as a public authority , for the purpose of section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998 , the ICRIR and its commissioner be require to be compatible with convention right within the meaning of the Act when exercise their function under the Bill . government Lords amendment 19 and 22 expressly confirm that the commissioner for investigation must comply with obligation impose by the Human Rights Act when exercise operational control over the conduct of review and other function , . lord amendment 20 reference gathering as much information as possible and explore all evidential opportunity . the commissioner for investigation be require to ensure not only that a review be carry out when a valid request be receive , but that each review look into all the circumstance of the death or incident - in question , include but not limit to criminal activity . furthermore , as I set out , Lords amendment 49 will place the commission under a positive duty to take reasonable step to secure information for that assessment . to strengthen far our commitment around the conducting of review , I have table amendment in lieu of Lords amendment 20 , which seek to clarify that the duty of the commissioner for investigation when look into the circumstance of a death or serious injury apply regardless of whether a criminal investigation form part of the review . they also place a duty on the chief commissioner to provide , where possible , answer to question pose as part of a request for a review . Sinn F é in have always argue that , because in the early year of the trouble fatal shooting by armed force personnel be investigate by the Royal Military Police , and only after a few year be that transfer to the ruc , those investigation be not article 2 compliant . as the Government have deliberately strengthen the role of article 2 , via their own amendment , do that mean in practice that every single fatality prior to 1972 be likely to be reinvestigate in order to be article 2 compliant ? no . turn now to the role of victim and family — sorry , do the Minister want to explain that ? I will happily explain a bit later , when I have finish what I be say . turn now to the role of victim and family , through our extensive engagement with stakeholder we have seek to make the Bill more victim - centre . to achieve that , I be place the commission , when exercise its function , under a duty to have regard to the general interest of person affect by trouble - relate death and serious injury . the Bill will also make it clear that in exercise its function , the commission ' s principal objective be to promote reconciliation . that be a crucial overarching principle that will embed the need to promote reconciliation in everything the ICRIR do when carry out its work . the commission will also be place under a new duty to offer victim and their family the opportunity to submit personal impact statement , set out how they have be affect by a trouble - relate death or serious injury . the statement must be publish if the person make the statement so wish , subject to limited exception that ensure no individual be put at risk and that the Government ' s duty to keep people safe and secure be uphold . we table the amendment as a direct result of engagement with the Commissioner for Victims and Survivors in Northern Ireland , who maintain it be crucial that victim have a voice in this process . we agree . the Government fully recognise the need for the commission to have credibility , expertise and legitimacy so that effective investigation can be carry out and information provide to family as soon as possible . on 11 May , I announce the intend appointment of the former Lord Chief Justice of Northern Ireland , Sir Declan Morgan KC , as chief commissioner - designate , have obtain input from the Lord Chief Justices of Northern Ireland , and England and Wales , and the Lord President of the Court of Session in Scotland , all of whom I would like to thank publicly . to allay further concern around the integrity and independence of the immunity process , the Government ' s Lords amendment place a duty on the commission to produce guidance that be relate to determine a request for immunity . that will replace the power that previously rest with the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . there be also amendment relate to oral history and memorialisation . we be , I be afraid , never go to agree in Northern Ireland on a common narrative about the past , but we can aim to put in place structure to help all in society , include future generation , have a well understanding of the past , with the overarching aim of enable people to move forwards . therefore , our memorialisation strategy will seek to build consensus around inclusive new initiative to commemorate those lose in the trouble and seek to ensure that lesson of the past be not forget . I fully understand concern raise regard the need to prevent the glorification of terrorism in relation to the memorialisation strategy and other measure in part 4 . as a result , we have add an overarching requirement to clause 48 so that designated person must have regard to the need to ensure that the way in which the trouble - relate work programme be carry out promote reconciliation , anti - sectarianism and non - recurrence . we also amend the Bill to broaden the requirement to consult the First Minister and Deputy First Minister with a duty to consult organisation that be experience in reconciliation and anti - sectarianism , and to consult relevant Northern Ireland Departments before decide on a response to each recommendation in the memorialisation strategy . we add an additional requirement in clause 50 that the Secretary of State must consult organisation that have an expertise in reconciliation and anti - sectarianism before designate person for the purpose of this part of the Bill . there be also government amendment relate to interim custody order . we have make the amendment in response to concern raise by member of both Houses over the 2020 Supreme Court ruling concern the validity of the interim custody order make under the trouble - era internment legislation . to be clear , it have always be the Government ' s understand that interim custody order make by Ministers of the Crown under power confer on the Secretary of State be perfectly valid . in order to restore clarity around the legal position and to make sure that no one be inappropriately advantage by a different interpretation of the law on a technicality , the Government table amendment that retrospectively validate all interim custody order make under article 4 of the Detention of Terrorists ( Northern Ireland ) Order 1972 , as well as paragraph 11 of section 1 of the Northern Ireland ( Emergency Provisions ) Act 1973 . that have the effect of confirm that a person ' s detention under an ICO be not unlawful simply because it have be authorise by a junior Minister rather than by the Secretary of State personally . the Secretary of State have make an important point about the r v . Adams case and the disregarding of the Carltona principle by the Supreme Court in 2020 , and he be right to affirm the Government ' s view that the signing of warrant by a Minister of the Crown be always a lawful act , but why have this take three year , and why do the amendment originate from the Back Benches rather than the Government ? be the Secretary of State right to describe they as Government amendment ? for a great many people in Northern Ireland who think that this be a welcome step during Bill ' s passage , it come rather late . well , perhaps it be a case of well late than never . these be government amendment , but I be the first to admit that amazingly good idea sometimes emerge from the Back Benches of both Houses of Parliament . the amendment could also prohibit certain type of legal proceeding — include civil case , application for compensation as a result of miscarriage of justice and appeal against conviction , which rely on the 2020 ruling — from be bring or continue . to align with the other prohibition in the Bill , the continuation of pende claim and appeal in scope would be prohibit immediately from commencement . there be a specific exemption in the Bill for certain type of ongoing criminal appeal , where leave to appeal have already be grant or where there have be a referral by the Criminal Cases Review Commission by the time of the Bill ' s commencement . the exception would not allow for the payment of compensation flow from the reversal of such conviction , and I want to make it clear that the amendment would not lead to the reinstatement of conviction that have already be reverse . there be other amendment relate to criminal justice outcome . the Government ' s primary focus have always be on establish one effective legacy body seek to provide well outcome for family . we also want to ensure that organisation such as the Police Service of Northern Ireland , the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland and the judiciary be able to concentrate their capability on more present - day issue . it remain our view that the independent commission , when establish , should be the sole body responsible for trouble - relate case , but we be also mindful of the concern raise about the ending of the ongoing process , especially give the current legislative timetable and the expect timeframe for the commission ' s become fully operational . our amendment would therefore ensure that ongoing criminal investigation , ombudsman investigation , the consideration of prosecution decision , coronial inquest , and the publication of report will continue until 1 May 2024 , when the commission will become fully operational . we hope that the additional time provide will allow such case to conclude their work , while ensure a smooth transition between the ending of the current mechanism and the commission ' s take on full responsibility for outstanding legacy case . do the Secretary of State recognise the huge concern feel by family who do not think it be practical to expect all inquest to be complete by next spring ? some have not even begin , and it be fear that a two - tier approach will emerge . owe to a number of factor , some case schedule by the former Lord Chief Justice will have start and may well finish , while other have not even have a chance to start . notwithstanding what the Secretary of State have say , people do not believe that the new process will have the rigour of an inquest . our amendment provide until 1 May 2024 for inquest to conclude . since the Bill ' s introduction , expeditious case management of inquest in order to reach " an advanced stage " have result in the overloading of a system that be already struggle under incredible pressure , cause delay and frustration . we hope that the amendment will ensure that resource will now be focus on complete those inquest that have a realistic prospect of conclusion in the next year . the Government expect trouble - relate case that do not conclude via the coronial process by 1 May 2024 to be transfer to the fully operational ICRIR , lead by Sir Declan Morgan as chief commissioner - designate , through the use of provision already contain in the Bill , and I believe that those provision will allow he to maintain the relevant level of investigation . the Secretary of State be very kind and generous to give way . before he conclude , would he care to mention any response to the irish Government threat that they intend to take his Majesty ' s Government to court on these matter ? how do he view that threat , and what have be the response back to the Irish Government , give their own dire record of deal with legacy ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . there have be a number of quite forthright conversation between the Taoiseach , the Tanaiste and myself on this matter . obviously anything could be test in legal action as we move forward , but I believe that the Bill be article 2 - compliant . I do not see that as negative , because there be five element to article 2 compliance — independence , capability of lead to the identification and punishment of perpetrator , prompt and reasonably expeditious , involvement of next of kin , and a degree of public scrutiny , which I think be all include in this . so I think we be in a strong place to resist any such potential charge , and I would like to think that mean that we can happily move on together . I have be wait patiently for the Secretary of State to answer the question that I ask he early about the interrelationship between article 2 and pre - 1972 investigation . I be sure he mean to answer the question before he sit down . he have very few bit of paper leave . could he now please give a direct answer to my question about the interrelationship between the two ? I think my hon . friend will remember that I give he a direct answer and he want something that be a bit long . I have just give he something that be a bit long that identify why there be article 2 compliance , and we believe — [ interruption . ] I do directly , which I think be the good way of deal with this . it do not answer my question . order . the ICRIR have always , as a public body , need to comply with all its duty under the Human Rights Act . we have make it clear , on the face of the Bill , that the commissioner for investigation must comply with those duty when carry out their review . it be a very straightforward — it generally be a straightforward — answer to a straightforward question , and I hope that my hon . friend , when he read Hansard , will see that his question have be answer threefold in what I have say . no they have not . there you go ; we beg to differ . finally , through these amendment the term " the relevant day " have be remove from the Bill , so a consequential amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 119 in my name simply seek to remove the power to define the relevant date . I be very confident that the Government ' s legacy Bill provide the framework that will enable the independent commission , establish by the Bill , to deliver effective legacy mechanism for family and victim , whilst comply with our international obligation . when the Bill become law the delivery of those mechanism will be lead by Sir Declan Morgan KC , currently chief commissioner - designate of the independent commission . Sir Declan be also an individual of the high calibre , with a track record of delivery on legacy issue , and I know that he will approach the task with the rigour , integrity and professionalism require . the challenge before we be immensely difficult , but it be also clear . if we be to place the legacy of the trouble in the rear - view mirror and to help all in society to move forward in a spirit of reconciliation , we must try to do thing differently . the Bill have manage to unite all Northern Ireland party in opposition to it . the word " reconciliation " may be in its title , but victim say that it be traumatise . both the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission and the Law Society of Northern Ireland have criticise it . the Labour party have vote against it at every stage . that be because it benefit terrorist more than their victim . anyone doubt that should read the BBC front page today , and the story about Louie Johnston , who be just seven year old when his Royal Ulster Constabulary officer father David Johnston be shoot by the IRA . Louie have ask mps to show empathy with his family today and not force through this Bill . lord amendment 44 address the flaw at the centre of this Bill , by remove the immunity clause . the Government must not put immunity back in . it be not a wreck amendment , as the independent commission would have a well chance of win people over without it . I listen with interest to the Secretary of State ' s recent speech to the Institute for Government . he tell a story about meet three ruc widow , and how all three want different thing in relation to their husband ' s death . he say that , if he be a member of the public , he would side with the widow who want justice above all else . he suggest that conditional immunity in exchange for information would satisfy two of the three widow , and he say this be progress on legacy . I be intrigue to hear the Leader of the Opposition publicly state last week that , if he be to become Prime Minister , he would repeal this Act . this surprise I for a variety of reason , and I wonder if the shadow Minister might indulge I for a second . be I right in think that public protestation mean Labour have no intention of draw a line under legacy issue in Northern Ireland and move on ? and do it mean that Labour have no wish to stop vexatious complaint be make against british serviceman ? labour believe in a more consensual way forward . we believe that , in the past , there have be agreement that draw more consensus . this Government publish a Bill that have broad agreement in Northern Ireland and be deem human right compliant , yet they jettison the Bill after gain all that consensus and choose a different way forward . we believe the way forward lie in the origin of that draft legislation , and we believe there be a way forward that take into account the learning since . the hon . Gentleman mention vexatious litigation against former servicepeople in the Northern Ireland context . perhaps he could give an example of vexatious litigation where someone be currently be prosecute or pursue as a result ? Officer B . Dennis Hutchings . okay . I will move on . the Secretary of State have clearly be try to do his good with a Bill he inherit from one of his predecessor , but this Bill will slam shut the door to justice . it be now well over a year since the Bill be publish . in that time , Ministers have have ample opportunity to consult . the Secretary of State outline dozen of meeting , and he have have the chance to consult and listen to victim , their representative and local northern irish politician . that be ample opportunity to win the people over to the Government ' s approach , yet nobody have be win over — no politician , no victim , no international partner , no one . immunity from prosecution for murder would work only if it have popular support in Northern Ireland . it do not . the Government have underestimate the strength of feeling among victim . I have be ask by some victim to put their view on the record . on 10 August 1996 , John Molloy have nearly reach his home in north Belfast when he be confront by a group of young man and woman . John be catholic . he be repeatedly stab in a frenzied attack and be leave to bleed to death on the pavement . he be just 18 year old . John ' s still - grieve parent , Pat and Linda , want to know how offer his killer immunity will aid they in reconciliation ? we be try to heal division but this Bill be damaging . take the case of Cecil Caldwell , a 37 - year - old construction worker who be travel in a minibus from Omagh , where he and his colleague have be repair an Army base . a roadside bomb be detonate , kill eight of the 14 people on the bus . as the dead and die lie on the road , their pay packet be steal . a simple , dignified monument be erect at the site , and it be regularly vandalise . cecil ' s wife , Jean , do not want this legislation . she have ask whether the Government have any idea of what victim have go through . if the Bill be not an aid to victim such as she , what be the point ? clearly , the Government be also conflict . in the other place , amendment be introduce to stop Gerry Adams receive compensation , follow a Supreme Court ruling in 2020 . we support the upholding of the Carltona principle and that amendment . however , there be a disconnect between the horror the Government feel at the idea of give Gerry Adams compensation and the potential implication of the immunity clause we be debate . I want to explore that in a hypothetical . Gerry Adams have , of course , always deny be a member of the IRA , but he be currently be sue in the High Court by victim of the IRA in a civil case . not only will this Bill halt any similar case , but the immunity provision remain open to Gerry Adams if he be ever to need they . immunity be worth a lot more than compensation . in this hypothetical , should Gerry Adams seek to avail himself of immunity , nothing in this Bill could prevent it , and the people support the Bill would be the very first one on their foot scream for emergency measure to prevent it from happen . even if we choose to ignore the moral problem of this policy , there be also doubt about it on the Government ' s own term . member need not take my word for it , because this be the view that Sir Declan Morgan give to the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee last year . the House will know that Sir Declan have be name as the chief commissioner of the independent body . he say : " the only group who will go for immunity be those who have be the subject of investigation , bring in for questioning and it look like there be a viable case . it seem to I like that be a vanishingly small number of people . again , the question then arise of why you would put immunity in place for such a small number of people in the circumstance . you must be able to justify that . that present a challenge . " I do not have reason to believe that Sir Declan ' s view on the number of people who will go for immunity have change since his appointment . immunity can not be justify when the rest of the Bill shut process down which have work for some victim . will the Minister give way ? Shadow Minister , for the time be . I be go to make that clear in my comment . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for what he be say . I understand entirely what motivate my colleague on the other side of the House who serve in the armed force ; I have the honour of serve in the Ulster Defence Regiment . but here be the problem for I : for all those whom we be seek to protect from prosecution , there be countless other who put on a uniform of the Crown , in the armed force and in the Royal Ulster Constabulary , and be murder in cold blood by terrorist and whose family will not now have the opportunity of justice . I can not look those people in the eye . Louie Johnston be one of my constituent , and the shadow Secretary of State refer to he . I recall have just be elect a Member of Parliament in 1997 and the news come through about the murder of his father , Constable David Johnston , and of Constable John Graham in Lurgan . Louie be in my office recently and the current system be not deliver for he — we do need change . we need a system that can deliver , but surely it be the victim who should have the choice . surely it should be down to the family to choose whether they want to pursue justice or information . when we deny they that route and we take away the access to justice , we diminish the prospect of achieve the second objective of this Bill , which be reconciliation . the right hon . Member make his point passionately , with great erudition and personal experience as the representative of the Lagan Valley . there be very little I can add to the insight that he have just give the House . we in this place have strive in recent year to give extra right to victim . indeed , the Victims and Prisoners Bill be pass through the House — I believe it have just pass Committee stage . in England and Wales , we be pass legislation that give more right to victim . only in Northern Ireland be we do something that disempower victim and put in place a set of institution that will make it immeasurably more difficult for victim to get the reconciliation that they so desperately deserve , so I have complete sympathy with the right hon . member . let I address an intervention from the hon . member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) , who ask about the number of prosecution currently under way regard veteran and terrorist in the time of the trouble . to the good of my knowledge , two case be outstanding and ongoing relate to veteran — soldier b and soldier F — but there be 32 case file currently with prosecutor in Northern Ireland relate to act of terror . those 32 case be not be push forward because prosecutor lack the resource , which they have repeatedly ask Government for , to pursue those prosecution . those resource be not forthcoming , but there be a lot of case that could be move forward that we be not resource to progress right now . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for emphasise that point , because it highlight the folly of the decision take by some people in this House to support this legislation because it will protect " our boy " . the fact of the matter be that the only ongoing case that have any likely prospect of get to trial be case against " our boy " . none of the case against terrorist will ever be able to get to court and , more importantly , the immunity provision will exclude former security personnel from benefit from they . member should think again about why they be support those measure . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention . these be very difficult issue and of course I understand why people want to speak in support of people who have serve in our armed force . I feel this intensely and strongly myself , come from a family where one of my parent — my father — serve in our armed force . I will come to the issue again later in my speech , but I will go into it in some detail now . the only recent case against a member of our armed force be that of David Holden , a member of the Grenadier Guards , and it be worth reflect on the judge ' s sum up in that particular case . paragraph 105 of the judgment say : " instead , accord to his frankly incoherent evidence , he put his right hand on the pistol grip which somehow result in his finger slip onto the trigger and do so with the significant pressure require to fire the weapon . I do not believe that evidence . I conclude that it be a deliberately false account of what happen . " paragraph 120 say : " to summarise the conclusion above I find that it be prove beyond a reasonable doubt that … the defendant lie repeatedly to the police . " if this case have come to light after the Bill have pass , prosecution would not have be possible . I do not believe for a second that this case and the person responsible — David Holden — reflect the value that we expect from those who serve in our armed force , and that the vast majority of people who serve in our armed force expect from their fellow member . after five year , the Bill provide a general amnesty for anyone and everyone , as the independent body will wind up . all other investigation , inquest and civil case will be shut down . it be clear that the Government have choose immunity to satisfy some on their own Benches . they say veteran face " a witch hunt " in Northern Ireland ; that be the phrase use by the right hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Sir Brandon Lewis ) . I do not believe that that be the way that we should frame or explain the reconciliation challenge of Northern Ireland . the vast majority of our soldier serve with distinction in the most difficult of circumstance . there can be no equivalence draw between their action and those of terrorist , but that be precisely what this Bill do . where standard be not uphold , it be important that there be accountability . there have be a total of six military personnel charge with offence relate to the trouble , two of which case be currently ongoing . what have change since this Bill ' s inception be that there have now be a conviction of the former Grenadier Guardsman , David Holden , for the manslaughter of Aidan McAnespie . we can not ignore the fact that this Bill be design to stop the outcome that the McAnespie family finally achieve . I also wish to put it on the record that veteran be victim too . the IRA shoot Private Tony Harrison five time in the back while he be sit on the sofa at his fianc é e ' s home in east Belfast in 1991 . his family have be clear that they do not want immunity for his killer . I would be a lot more sympathetic with the government if their approach have be to try to secure justice for more , not few , people . this Bill will affect the entire United Kingdom and our reputation abroad . the family of the 21 victim of the IRA Birmingham pub bombing have be clear that they do not want immunity to be on offer . in November , the chief constable of West Midlands police confirm that file have be pass on to the Crown Prosecution Service . immunity will be open to that suspect if this Bill pass before a decision be make . vote down Lords amendment 44 could shut off justice for family who have wait 50 year , right at their moment of great hope . there be still time for the Government to pause and reconsider this approach , just as the Irish Government have formally request . the 25th anniversary of the Good Friday agreement be the moment to reflect on the power of consensus . to pass this Bill with immunity would be to fly in the face of everything that we know about progress in Northern Ireland ; it should not happen . I do not intend to spend long on my foot , as I have make all the point that I would seek to make on this Bill at previous stage . it be also important that we get to hear as many voice as possible from Northern Ireland . I will make just two point : first , that reconciliation be something that be achieve , not impose ; and , secondly , to hold fast the principle that , where there be a sufficiency of evidence and an independent prosecutor decide that it be in the public interest , a prosecution should be able to go ahead . that be why the SNP continue to oppose the Bill , notwithstanding the amendment that be on the table today . I echo the point make by the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) that , without that ability to pursue justice , reconciliation become less likely . I appreciate very much the step that the ministerial team — this iteration of it — have make in seek to address the concern that have be raise , but that fundamental point of principle about deny prosecution , and therefore in our view justice , remain . that be why my party will support Lords amendment 44 this afternoon . we also support Lords amendment 20 . we think that Operation Kenova set the gold standard for the investigative process that should be carry out , and particularly the commitment by the Government to pursue all evidential opportunity . the Secretary of State have be keen to stress that he be offer great assurance on ECHR compliance . I have to say that we remain without the assurance that we need , and if Lords amendment 20 be to be put to the vote tonight , the SNP would certainly support it . rise — we have seven member who wish to speak . I will impose a seven - minute time limit to make sure that everybody get in . I appreciate the brevity with which the hon . member for Gordon ( Richard Thomson ) speak , and the fact that member from all party represent Northern Ireland will have the opportunity to speak . I thank the Secretary of State for at least engage in the debate in a way that be constructive , non - combative and as compassionate as possible , as I believe he have this afternoon . that have be markedly absent from some previous debate on the Bill that be not lead by he . the Secretary of State be right that different victim have different approach . victim be frustrate with the continuous obnoxious attitude that it be information that they need . for some that be undoubtedly true , but many other know exactly who perpetrate act of violence against their family . they know exactly which neighbour in their community be responsible for take the life of their love one . it be not an answer that they seek ; it be justice . I thank the Secretary of State and the Government for accept many of the amendment that we table last year . he mention the repeal of the Northern Ireland ( Sentences ) Act 1998 provision , and wrongly credit one of his colleague ; that be an amendment table by my colleague and I . the increase in fine be also beneficial to the Bill . the ability to revoke immunity should somebody obtain it through deception , deceit and lie be good — that provision be table in the House of Commons . the Government commit to deliver it in the House of Lords , and we be grateful that they do so . the Government also make a commitment on the amendment to clause 21 ( 4 ) that we table in the Commons , and they deliver on it in the Lords . all those amendment be beneficial , but none of they remove the irredeemable quality of the Bill . I have hear people , particularly in the other place , describe our position as populist , and refer , as the Secretary of State do , to previous effort . let I be clear : colleague who predate my time in this House — colleague in my party and in other party represent here — stand against on - the - run legislation as something that be immoral under the Labour Government , and actively oppose the Conservative Government when it be show that they have be provide letter of comfort to terrorist . we do so because the Government ' s position be immoral . today , we say that the Bill be irredeemable not because we be populist on this issue , but because we be principle on it . the quest for justice , be it from last week , last year or 50 year ago , be as important for those affect by the vagary of terrorism today as it be at the time of their loss . we do not believe that the Government have go far enough on the provision regard the glorification of terrorism . the Bill be about bring community together and resolve the issue of the past , not absolve individual of their crime and ignore the memory and hurt of victim . as I mention , I be pleased that the Government resolve the compensation issue relate to the Adams case . I be sorry to say that , although they have take step to consider some of the aspect of investigation that touch on criminality , and have move some way in their position in response to Lords amendment 20 , for we they have not move far enough . whether the Bill and the Government ' s action be compatible with their obligation under the european convention on human right will ultimately be a matter for the court , but it do not pass our smell test for what we believe be righteous or just . that be why we will vote against the government when it come to Lords amendment 44 . we will vote against the ability to offer immunity to terrorist and to ensure that they never face justice for their crime , and subsequently to give they the ability to talk openly and freely about their exploit , as those who have already be convict do . we do not need a crystal ball to guess that people who be unencumbered by the justice system will have the freedom not only to share their experience , but to torment their victim and their victim ' love one far . that be the true reality of what will happen , because glorification of terrorism have not be satisfactorily address in the Government ' s amendment . the Government continually chide Northern Ireland party for not reach agreement on issue that have plague our society for decade , yet in 2016 we have agreement on Stormont House arrangement . that be not easy . it be fraught with difficulty and there be many compromise by all party contain within those proposal . yet it be an agreement that we reach and that the Government disregard . seven year later , we be still struggle to comprehend and understand the approach that the Government be take . for the victim in my community and the victim throughout Northern Ireland , who know exactly what happen but want the Government to stand with they in their pursuit of the rule of law and of consequence for criminal act and for remove life , this Bill and these amendment do not go far enough to satisfy their very human and very just quest , in which we continue to support they . unlike some of the people who have be involve in this debate more recently , who have leave the Chamber of course , we care about the victim and we want to put the victim at the heart of all this . I have be work on this issue for about 20 year . I know many of those victim . they be not people who want to live in the past ; they be people who want a well future . but unless we deal with this issue , they will never be able to have the reconcile future that they crave . the Bill be a licence for impunity and a signal to other country that they can murder their own citizen and get away with it , but mostly it be legislation write in very dark corner of the british establishment to ensure that light be not shine into those corner . the Secretary of State tell we he have have a lot of meeting and I be sure he have . he have meet victim ' group , human right group , the United States Administration and european politician , and he have meet all of we . I would love to know whether he come away from any one of those meeting with the impression that people actually want this Bill . as the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) say , we do have an agreement : not only be we agree that we be oppose to the Bill , but we be agree that Stormont House be the way to carry out this process . to pretend that we have all be fight over this issue for the last seven or eight year be just nonsense . moreover , the pretence that the Bill be about allow people to get to the truth be quite easily debunk . I remember the Bloody Sunday inquiry . the soldier be offer immunity within that inquiry and they lie through their tooth ; if hon . member do not believe I , they should read the Saville report . one after another , they lie through their tooth . the notion that , if we give people immunity , they will all of a sudden come and tell we all they know be just not practical or realistic . I do not believe victim will engage in that process . I also want to say something about the nonsense that we have all these vexatious prosecution . nobody have ever point one out to I . there be no vexatious prosecution . I would love someone to tell I exactly how many british soldier serve time as a result of what they do in Northern Ireland . it would not take very long to count they . we be disappointed that Lords amendment 20 be be oppose by the Government . Operation Kenova , run by Jon Boutcher , have be laud around the world and be internationally respect as a good approach to deal with these issue . it have family approval . family be buy into the investigation and the outcome they desire . it prove the point that , if we want to get to the truth , we have to investigate . time after time , whether it be the Government or paramilitary organisation , they have prove to we that they will not give the truth just because we ask nicely . to support the hon . member ' s point about the work of Jon Boutcher and his team in Op Kenova , he will be aware that , as a result of their rigorous investigative process , a number of file have now be pass to the Public Prosecution Service , include — I be careful about what I say here , Mr Deputy Speaker — potential prosecution against member of illegal , proscribe terrorist organisation , yet we have have no outcome to that process from the PPS . give that this legislation be come down the road , one wonder why there do not appear to be sufficient progress be make in follow through on the work of Jon Boutcher ' s team and move on those potential prosecution . the right hon . member be absolutely right . the family involve — we do have to be careful — in those investigation be largely very happy about the way in which Jon Boutcher ' s team have deal with they . but , of course , some people — a lot of people — do not want the truth to get out : people in the British Government , people in paramilitary organisation , and some people who be in both of those thing at the same time . they do not want the truth to come out because they be very worried that the glorify version of their history actually turn out to be a dirty little war . Stephen McConomy be 11 year old when he be shoot in the back of the head at very close range by a british soldier fire a plastic bullet in Derry in 1982 . his brother Emmet , who have be fight for justice ever since , say that the " real winner " of this legislation be the perpetrator of violence , and he be absolutely right . some of the file in Stephen ' s case will not be open until 2071 , almost 100 year after Stephen ' s murder . James Miller , whose grandfather David Miller be kill by the IRA ' s horrific bomb in Claudy in 1972 , say : " I describe it as the family have a sore , and that sore be there all the time — it ' s open and we just want that sore to heal . " James go on : " they be just close the whole process down … for a reason … . a lot of stuff may come out that will make the government look bad . " that be what this be about . I have be deal with this for 20 year . although we work tirelessly on this — lot of people do in political party in Northern Ireland — I have always believe that the dark force within the state will do all they can to prevent the full truth of what happen from come out . some people say that they oppose the Bill because it create a moral equivalence between the British Army and paramilitary organisation . that be not why I oppose it . I oppose it because it benefit murderer , whether or not they be wear a uniform . that be a fairly simple principle to stand by . what we be talk about here be much more important than have be mention . we be talk about how we can build a future together — a reconcile future for our people . some of my colleague here want that to be within the United Kingdom ; I want it to be within a new united Ireland . but I know that , to get to that place , we can not keep glorify the ugliness and horribleness of the past . whatever the future bring , we still have to come together as a community , but the Bill give cover to those who be put Ulster Volunteer Force flag up lamppost or singe " up the ' Ra " in pub . I appeal to anybody who think that that be a good way to bring society back together again to talk to some of the victim I speak to regularly , many of whom I know very well . all those thing hurt they . although the rest of we have be allow to move on and build a life as a result of the peace process , they be still stuck , and not because they want to be . they be more future - focused than anybody I have ever meet , because they do not want their grandchild to stay stuck have to deal with the mess that they have be leave . I wish that we do not have to be in this Chamber . I be glad that the Labour party have commit to repeal the Bill once it be law but , in reality , between now and the new Labour Government , a lot of people could have little letter that they can bandy about because they will have get away with destroy life and family , and this british Government be give they a blank cheque to do it . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) . I want to speak in favour of the Lords amendment , particularly amendment 44 , relate to immunity . town and village in St Helens — like those in your constituency , Mr Deputy Speaker — have strong and historic link to the Army , particularly the Cheshire and Lancashire Regiments . I have a significant , active and very supportive armed force community locally , and I hope that veteran and their family would say in return that I have always respect , represent and work hard for they . but I be also honest with they when we talk about the issue in this Bill or about Northern Ireland more generally , because there be not legion of veteran be parade before the court . there be no vexatious complaint . there be no witch hunt . it be a myth , and it be a dangerous and disingenuous one . I want to be honest with the House and with myself too . I sometimes think we should just draw a line under this whole thing — that it would be the easy thing to do — and then I realise how selfish of I that be . I say to myself , " how dare you be so selfish ? " and I ask myself , " easy for who ? " I remind myself that I have no authority , politically , legally and , most of all , morally , to tell anybody to forget , to move on and to put it all behind they — none of we do . what I have learn be that , while legacy be speak of as something historical , it be not just history ; it be something live by the victim and their family in the present , every day . I have speak before in this House of thing that be do where I grow up in South Armagh , the place I love and be so proud to be from : Kingsmills and the Reaveys — too much and too many . there be the realisation for I that , even now , as Christy Moore sing in " North and South " , " there be no feeling so alone as when the one you ' re hurt be your own . " we can all point to those case that be beyond tear because of their awfulness , their brutality and the sheer human cost , but it be those that we do not often recall and that be only remember by those who know and love they that be affect by the Bill — like Martin Rowland , who be 26 when he be shoot dead on 5 October 1979 , his body leave on the Quarter Road in Camlough . he be remember by local as a quiet , inoffensive fella . his family say at the time , " he be an enemy to no man . " no one ever get any answer about why he be murder , never mind who kill he , although it be widely suspect that there be a strong element of collusion between loyalist and Crown force . Martin ' s sister and brother be dead now . do that mean he should be forget or that he do not deserve the truth ? I tell my father , Pat , who know Martin , that I intend to mention he , and he be pleased , but he — a lifelong republican and former Sinn F é in councillor — say , " there be also a UDR man from Bessbrook shoot dead … that morning . it would be disrespectful to mention one neighbour without mention another . " so I ring my friend Danny Kennedy , a former Minister and deputy leader of the Ulster Unionist party , who tell I about George Hawthorne , a 37 - year - old father of three who have leave the UDR the year before and be murder on his way to work as a forklift driver at the timber yard in Newry . his wife , sadly deceased , work with my mother in the furniture shop in the village . they be quiet , civil people . should that be forget or dismiss ? I do not tell these tale together to be self - righteous or to tick the dread what - aboutery box . I tell they to illustrate that this stuff be complicated , it be personal , and it still affect we all , because it happen to all of we or to people we know and people we love . when I take my kid to South Armagh now from St Helens , they take great joy in wind up their uncle and their granda as we travel from the airport in Belfast by cheer when they see a Union flag fly in some of my hon . friend ' constituency . you do not have to look very hard at this time of year — there be constant noise all the way down the motorway . they say , " look , dad , there ' s our flag . they ' re welcome we home , " because kid be great . when we pop in for a cup á n tae — a cup of tea — in McCooey ' s in Newry , or I see my friend Michael o ' Hare in Whitecross , the conversation often turn to Majella o ' Hare and what a great girl she be . they talk about she as if she be here today — play out the front , happy and without a care in the world , like my two — but she be 12 year old when she be shoot by a soldier of the Parachute Regiment in 1976 . in 2011 , the Government apologise for her unjustifiable killing . that be welcome , but what be it worth if this Bill become law , and how can there be any justice or peace for her family when the file relate to her death have be close until 2065 ? the o ' Hare family — like almost every family , survivor and victim group — oppose the Bill . that speak more about it than I ever could . when I be a cub do my a - level , I work the late shift do the taxi radio in Camlough . one night , after we finish , I and one of the aul - timer — one of the driver — have a late drink in the Lough Inn . he start to talk about when the village have high wall and gate around the pub , because it have be blow up so often , and about all the various altercation and disturbance , about the policeman and the soldier , about the Gaelic Athletic Association member and the local who have be shoot or kill , and about Raymond McCreesh and the hunger strike . as little more than a schoolboy at the time — and as Richard Moore from Derry say on the telly recently — I think he be talk about a film , or that it be like cowboy and Indians . I say to he , " it must have be dead exciting . " he gently put his glass down , look I dead in the eye and say , " you ' re lucky you weren ' t about . " it be as simple as that . I be lucky that I be not about then . but I be about now , and we be about now . we owe it to the people who be about then to ensure that they get to remember their love one and find out the truth about what happen to they , and have the justice and the peace that they deserve and that we , in this place of all place , should demand . the Secretary of State say that immunity will be block if there be an ongoing process . of course , in all likelihood , the only trial that will actually take place — that be in process at the minute and could take place — be those against member or former member of the security service . no IRA allege terrorist be about to face trial or be up for trial , and at present it be unlikely that they will be . therefore , Government Members who think that , by support the Bill , they be support the security personnel and protect they from prosecution be wildly mistaken . some republicans will not let this issue go . there have be a couple of comment tonight , from member on both the Front Bench and the Back Benches , suggest that no vexatious case be ongoing . actually , vindictive and vexatious case be ongoing , and I want to put one before the House tonight . Colum Marks be lawfully shoot dead by an ruc officer in an action justify by the police , the Army and those involve because he be about to murder and maim in Downpatrick . it be very unfortunate that that be the action that have to be take . the officer who take part in that operation have now face three trial . he be most recently clear by the Director of Public Prosecutions with the word that this be a lawful killing , not only in his self - defence but in the defence of the state and the people live in Downpatrick . be that the end of it ? no , there be now go to be another trial — another attempt to drag that officer , know as Officer B , before the court . that be vindictive . that officer have long since retire . he have another family and be try to live his life , yet this continue to hang over he . we have a certain shameful snake - oil salesman of a legal practitioner say that he be go to take this person — this " ruc murderer " — back to court on behalf of the Marks family . that be vindictive and it be ongoing , and those matter do offend . can I ask the hon . Gentleman to be very careful in his language ? the last time that solicitor be name in this House , we end up in a very bad and dangerous place . I would just ask he to be very careful about his language , because we can never go back to those day , and people in this House should not be give licence for that . I thank the hon . member for that , but he should be very clear that I do not actually mention solicitor . I say a legal practitioner , because they be not a solicitor . he want to draw that out , as he have do by his comment , but he will now see that it be someone very specific . People will be able to look up the website of that person , who make snake - oil sale in this case in that particular way , and it be wrong because such a person should recognise the outcome of the justice process . in the Republic of Ireland there be no legacy equivalent . in the Republic of Ireland there be no equivalent for the right to access historical legal paper . there be no equivalent in the Republic of Ireland for ombudsman inquiry into Garda Siochana activity . in the Republic of Ireland there be request by this state for 116 warrant for extradition to bring known terrorist back over the border to face prosecution in our court , but only eight of those warrant be ever pursue and deliver on . more importantly , in the Republic of Ireland the possession of weapon in Northern Ireland be not regard as a criminal offence and be not regard as a terrorist offence . the possession of weapon in Northern Ireland , accord to the Republic of Ireland , be a political offence , and people can not face prosecution for a political offence . I think member can see some of the problem . the idea that we have a view from another state that all that be happen here should be drag to court somewhere else by we on some sort of high moral ground be absolutely shameful . the Republic of Ireland have threaten his Majesty ' s Government to take they to court on this issue , and they should have a good , hard , long look at themselves , because if this issue of legacy be go to be resolve , it will have to be resolve by both the north and the south , as well as by the United Kingdom Government , properly look at this issue and resolve it . I would go so far as to say that the Republic of Ireland actually have a duty to address these issue . do member want to know how many murder have a cross - border element to they ? of the 3 , 700 - odd terrorist offence , or the almost 3 , 700 dead , almost 600 have a cross - border element . my hon . friend the Member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) mention his own personal circumstance and the case involve his family , where the terrorist flee back over the border . that be where weapon hoard be store , and where the Republic of Ireland give sanctuary to those people who be involve in almost 600 murder — of Roman Catholics and Protestants — in Northern Ireland . remember that there be more Roman Catholics murder by the Provisional IRA in Northern Ireland than there be Roman Catholics who be do to death by any other organisation , include the state . it be important to remember that the big group of people who get off the hook here be the Provisional IRA , and we should be guard strongly against that . I want to put on the record the comment of Senator Michael McDowell , the former Justice Minister of the Republic of Ireland . once again , the Senator have make it clear that , in the Republic of Ireland — he write this in the Irish Times — " the Irish Government of which I be a member take the decision that further investigation and prosecution by an Garda Siochana of such historic offence be no long warrant or justify by reason of the great interest in end the provisional campaign and all other political violence in Northern Ireland . " of the Irish Government , he conclude : " and so , as far as this state be concern , a line be draw across the page of historic Provisional IRA criminality in Northern Ireland . " if member want to look for immunity from justice , look no far than 60 or 70 mile from where I live , which be across the border in the Republic of Ireland , where they grant immunity . of course , in relation to the Government here , my hon . friend the Member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) make comment about the on - the - run letter and about the decision by those who support the Belfast agreement to let the prisoner out of jail , and all of those thing turn justice on its head . I think we have to recognise that this be not go to be an easy fix . but I can tell you one thing , Mr Deputy Speaker : what the Government be propose today will not satisfy people on the Government back Benches and it will not satisfy the victim in Northern Ireland . I would appeal to the Government to think again . I will start by put on the record my appreciation for the effort of the Government , in particular Lord Caine , over the past year , in try to improve the Bill with the amendment that be table in the House of Lords . it be , however , a matter of regret — this will probably be a common theme across the Northern Ireland party — that the Bill remain fundamentally flawed and not fit for purpose . even at this eleventh hour , it be important that we say to the Government — that be what we hear from most stakeholder in Northern Ireland — that they should withdraw the Bill . it be not want , and it be not go to work and achieve what the Government think it will . even at this stage , I urge a rethink . do not take the Bill over the line and end up with a situation where we have something that will not deliver for anybody in that regard . the Bill be not fit for purpose in the sense that it be not compliant with article 2 of the european convention on human right . it do not have the support and confidence of stakeholder in Northern Ireland , whether that be the political party — it be rare that we be so united , but we be on this point — the different victim group , whose voice be particularly to be listen to ; or the view of virtually every independent expert , such as the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission , which have a statutory role to give its view on such matter . they be all deeply concerned about the Bill and do not believe it will deliver or that it be legally competent . I want particularly to focus on immunity , as that be one of the core area of debate , and on the Government amendment , which I will shortly be oppose . the concept of immunity be see as be fundamentally unjust by victim . Most victim appreciate that they be unlikely to see their day in court and a successful prosecution of the culprit who take away their love one , but they do not want to have that hope extinguish . as long as there be hope , people be cling on to that . that be the real fear , and it be on that pivot that people become particularly emotional . that be at the heart of the comment that the Government be hear from victim across the political spectrum . the concept of immunity be also see as a de facto amnesty , which have its own implication . first , it go against emerge caselaw at european level , but it also carry certain connotation that will weigh heavy on certain people . let I frame this for a moment from the point of view of some people who have work in the police , the Army and other security service over the past decade . I want to start by reflect that the vast majority of people who serve do so with honour , and with the intent of uphold the rule of law and protect the entire community . there be a clear distinction between they and the terrorist , in that the former do not set out to do harm but rather to protect the community , whereas every day the mission of the terrorist be to do harm . that be a clear distinction . the concept of immunity , particularly for those who be base in Northern Ireland , almost reinvent the whole nature of their service . they say , " we don ' t need immunity because we didn ' t do anything wrong . why be we give this abstract concept ? where our colleague do wrong , they should face justice because that be the rule of law , and the justice system be among many other value that they be serve . " this process turn that entirely on its head , and almost put they at the level of the terrorist . that say , justice should be blind , and where there be issue to be follow through , whatever legacy mechanism we have in place , that should proceed without favour to anyone . that bring I to a wide point about the genesis of the Bill , and this be a fundamental reason why there be this lack of confidence . the Government can not escape from the rationale set out at the beginning and the need to protect certain element who be clamour for protection against vexatious claim , who I think be generally more GB - base than in Northern Ireland as such . we have the comment from the previous Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Sir Brandon Lewis ) when he be introduce the Bill and its pretext of give protection to veteran who have serve , in particular in the Army . again , I stress that many other veteran do not want that protection . I be also concerned that the concept of immunity will not work , because we may find that few people apply for it , whether that be perpetrator seek it or family have the confidence to come forward and bring case to the commission . we need to reflect heavily on the concept of immunity . it have poison the approach to legacy , above and beyond the broad concern around article 2 compliance . I stress again to the Government that , even at the eleventh hour , they should please rethink this Bill . there be a different way of do it . we have not have a chance to consider properly the Stormont House agreement . the Northern Ireland Office do a consultation on it many year ago , and there be a basis for take it forward , but the Government do a handbrake turn back in 2021 and look at do thing entirely differently . I ask please that that process be give a chance . it hold the confidence not just of the political party , but of the vast majority of the victim in Northern Ireland . I rise to oppose this legislation in the strong possible term and to speak on behalf of the many innocent victim of terror in Northern Ireland , for whom this Bill have cause great distress and anguish . as I be leave Northern Ireland this morning , the real - life story — it have already be mention in this place — of Louie Johnston be boom out on the radio . Louie be the son of a police officer murder in my constituency . Louie be seven year old when his daddy be kill by IRA criminal because he wear the uniform of the Royal Ulster Constabulary . I encourage all member to google Louie ' s news article today and see the picture of he walk behind his dad ' s coffin , a broken child . it be one of the most powerful picture of the trouble . his dad , David Johnston , along with his ruc colleague , John Graham , be shoot dead while on foot patrol in Lurgan . when he be tell of his father ' s death , he say , " why would anyone want to kill my daddy ? " he ask today for we to show some empathy , and he ask whether we believe it be morally right to take away his avenue to justice . it be on those comment that I make my remark today . it speak volume that not one victim ' group endorse this legislation . it be a sad reflection that this Government today choose to ignore Louie ' s call and the call of the many who represent innocent victim . this House , I trust , will forgive I for labour the point about the hurt and the last legacy of the trouble on their life . they have physical and emotional scar that will never heal , and those be make bad when people sound out or imply that it be time to move on and draw a line in the sand . they feel that be code for , " forget about the victim , and forget about what happen . " do my hon . Friend also think that we be talk not just about the legacy of the past and the hurt that that have cause , but about the impression leave on young people today when they see that the state will grant immunity to people who have carry out some of the most horrible crime , deeming that to be okay ? in other word , someone can commit a crime , and if the political circumstance or whatever be right , there can be no consequence . do that not eat at the very moral core of society ? my right hon . friend make such a valid point on the impact the Bill will have on young people and their outlook on these issue . it be unacceptable and do not sit well in our society . victim in Northern Ireland have already suffer and have to endure the fact that , because of the Belfast agreement , they can meet the perpetrator of some of these act walk down the street or in the supermarket . they live with the continual flaunting and glorification of terrorism by someone who claim to be the First Minister for all and who have say there be no alternative . indeed , the Member for Belfast North ( John Finucane ) — a Member of this House — recently show his true colour in that regard as well . in the face of all the sickening action , the taunting and the re - traumatising , I applaud the fortitude , dedication and determination of innocent victim to fight for such basic concept as truth and justice . sadly , those concept be lose in the Bill . the other place have seek to make this imperfect Bill less imperfect . I welcome some of the amendment . it be of deep regret that the Government propose to disagree with Lords amendment 44 in relation to immunity . the amendment would have remove from the Bill provision allow immunity from trouble - relate crime , which the Democratic Unionist party , and I believe the majority of people in Northern Ireland , support . in my discussion about the Bill with victim ' group in recent month , I have hear how immunity be what cause the most grievous hurt . why ? it be because it close the door , erode victim ' access to redress and draw a moral — or should I say immoral — equivalence between blood - thirsty terrorist and public servant . quite frankly , it weaken our entire criminal justice system throughout the world . I find it most remarkable that the Government should endorse such a move . the decision be repugnant not just for its perversion of justice , which we in the UK claim to value , but for the trauma and hurt that it inflict on innocent victim . I turn to the motion to disagree with Lords amendment 20 . every family deserve the ultimate hope of a full and fair investigation into the circumstance of a love one ' s death . such an investigation should be subject to the high standard . the amendment would have establish minimum criminal justice standard for a review along the line of Operation Kenova follow express fear of water - down investigation . the commissioner should be under a duty to ensure that an article 2 - compliant investigation either have be carry out or will be carry out . be that too much to ask ? it be difficult to come to any conclusion other than that the commissioner for investigation will be able only to comply with obligation impose by the Human Rights Act 1998 to the extent dictate by the authority and resource grant to that office holder under the Act . the restriction of criminal enforcement action be such that even if the independent commission for reconciliation and information recovery refer all conduct to the Public Prosecution Service , much of that material will be admissible . compliance with fundamental right need to be a cross - cut safeguard in how trouble case be deal with . irrespective of whether an investigation be at least partially the granting of immunity to perpetrator , its value be diminish . the Government , by erase the other place ' s amendment to the Bill , simply fail to acknowledge the right of victim in term of the standard of an investigation . however , that be only one part of the jigsaw . for victim , it be equally important to have their day in court and the prospect of conviction and custodial sentence to grant some form of closure as it be to have a proper investigation . the Bill fail in those respect . the Government ' s objection to Lords amendment 20 will remove the requirement for a Kenova - standard investigation from the Bill . the Government , through their amendment , seem to want to provide an assurance , irrespective of whether a commissioner decide a criminal investigation be to take place as part of a review , that all the circumstance of a death , include potential offence , will be look into . I be sorry , but there would appear to be a huge gulf between carry out a historical investigation that gather and explore as much information as possible in relation to a death or harmful conduct and the Government ' s suggestion simply to look into that . we oppose the Bill because we believe in justice and in hold fast to hope for those who pay the big price for our troubled past . the Bill will lead not to reconciliation but to great distress , distrust and disillusionment among victim that they matter to this Government . we stand with those victim . I be pleased to speak in this debate and to put forward the desire of the people of Strangford in this place , and also my own family . [ interruption . ] sometimes when you be at the end your emotion get you , and they have get I today . fifty year ago , my cousin be murder . he be the light of our family , a good man with a good heart who love his family and his community . my aunt be rob of the opportunity to see he have the joy of his own child and grandchild , and I be rob of my childhood hero and friend . [ interruption . ] the perpetrator be never bring to justice — all three of they . order . I invite the hon . Gentleman to have a glass of water and compose himself . when you be ready , Mr Shannon . Kenneth take we shoot when we be small . I remember he well ; he instill a love of the countryside in I . I name my first son Jamie Kenneth after he . Jamie be 35 year old , and he have that same love of the countryside . my cousin Kenneth live through he . three people be responsible for his murder . two of they be dead . one of they be never make accountable . where be the justice for Kenneth and our family ? where be the justice for Lexie Cummings , murder by the IRA in Strabane ? his murderer escape across the border , a prominent member of Sinn F é in and a former mayor of a council in Donegal . where be the justice for the four UDR man murder in Ballydugan — John Birch , Michael Adams , Steven Smart and John Bradley ? I know three of those boy — lovely young boy who love their country and their family . where be the justice for those four young man ? where be the justice for Louis Robinson , a detective kidnap at the border at South Armagh , torture , beat up and murder by the IRA ? no one be ever make accountable . there be no justice for Louis Robinson and his family . my hon . friend have just highlight a number of individual who potentially will never see justice . if the Bill go through , the perpetrator can go out and glorify some of the action they have be involve in . unfortunately , this be a process of rewrite history . when I think of my cousin Kenneth Smyth , I think of Daniel McCormick , a roman Catholic . they be good friend and both serve in the UDR , but Daniel leave . he be murder by the IRA . no one be ever make accountable . Stuart Montgomery be a young boy of 18 year old who join the ruc . his daddy be so proud of he . he go to Pomeroy — three week in uniform — and be blow up by the IRA . no one be ever make accountable . where be the justice for Stuart Montgomery and his family ? where be the justice for Winston Donnell , the first UDR man murder by the IRA up in County Tyrone ? no one be ever make accountable . they leave his family with broken heart , bereft of a son . where be the justice for Raymond McCord ? every one of we here know Raymond . he will be watch on tv . his son be murder by the UVF . where be the justice for Raymond McCord ? I mention all those people because I think it be important that we have they on the record . Senator Barnhill be murder by the IRA in County Tyrone on the same day as my cousin Kenneth and Daniel McCormick . again , where be the justice ? I have name some of the people involve over the period of time . those investigation and that quest for justice — we do not see it . I understand the Government ' s aim . I see how almost all the case , investigation and money spend appear to be on less than 10 % of the murder , while the 90 % be leave as a part of history . my party grasp well the rationale behind that . the DUP have be clear and remain clear that the vilification of our serve soldier , UDR member and ruc member must stop . the rewriting of history to make it acceptable for the IRA and UVF to carry out their atrocity must end . there be never and will never be an excuse for the slaughter and maiming of anyone who wear a uniform . the DUP be clear on that , but we be also clear on the fact that for the family — all the family I have name and all the family everyone else here have name — their loss mean so much . it be for that reason that I can not accept the Government ' s proposal and that my party be unable to accept they either . the DUP mps and all the mps from Northern Ireland vote against the Bill in the House of Commons . in the Lords , our member table amendment that be not select . we do so not to be obstructive , but to fully honour the commitment we give to the innocent — those who seek justice and those whom we have all speak of . our heart break when we think of they . for this reason , we can not vote with the Government in their refusal of Lords amendment 20 , which seek to require that the review carry out by the new body , the independent commission for reconciliation and information recovery , should be thorough , of an adequate standard , and in line with our international obligation . it be hard to see how such a prospect could be argue against , yet the Government be not accept that . my party leader have be very clear and I reiterate it again : only criminal trial can bring murderer to justice . every one of we want justice : justice for our people , justice for all those who have lose their life . that be why we strongly oppose an amnesty and have vote against it at every turn . lord amendment 44 should be accept by the Government . without it , the Bill fail to deliver justice , the very justice we yearn for . the DUP still believe that all innocent victim — all innocent victim — of the trouble have the right to justice . DUP Members find themselves in a situation where we agree that the politicisation of the trouble must end , but we can not see that the Bill will achieve that in the form it be in . therefore , with a heavy heart , we can not stand with the Government on the Bill . I ask that those who vote do so understand the reasoning behind our stance . we do we oppose the ideal — we welcome the end to the victimisation of soldier — but that must be do through proper handling , which this Bill be not . this be sweeping legislation that change the definition of justice — the very justice that all of we in this House uphold when we swear our oath : justice for our people , justice for our family . the Bill prevent family have any hope of justice should investigation cease to be political and begin to be about hard fact alone . we oppose what the Government be put forward today . I do it for all the victim I have name , I do it for my constituent and I do it because it be the right thing to do . I be really , really disappointed — I really be . I be very sore and my people be sore about where we be . I think the Secretary of State grasp some of the pain we have — I think he do — but the Bill hurt we deeply , and I must register that . with the leave of the House , I would like to answer a few of the point that have be raise . first , I recognise the passion , the emotion and the very personal nature of many of the contribution today , include those from the hon . member for St Helens North ( Conor McGinn ) , for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) , for North Down ( Stephen Farry ) , for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . as I say , I can never put myself in the shoe of the hon . member for Strangford and nor would I want to . the question be raise by his party leader , the right hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sir Jeffrey M . Donaldson ) about the choice in the Bill between justice and information . I believe the Bill deliver opportunity for both . the ICRIR allow for criminal investigation to take place , but it also allow for information to be gather for those family who would be happy with just that . one reason for reject the amendment about the Kenova - style investigation be the fact that it rule out allow for the full remit of review through to criminal investigation , which I would like to see . I thank the hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) for acknowledge that the Bill have be improve on its journey . the one thing of which I have no doubt be the principled position take by he and by his party on the provision relate to amnesty and immunity . that position have be well state and have be constant throughout my political lifetime and before , and I completely understand it . the hon . member for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) talk about Stormont House . I be not quite as sure as he be that the search for consensus on this subject come together in Stormont House ; in fact , I think that that consensus have elude successive government . I seem to recall that one political party in Northern Ireland do not agree with Stormont House from the very start , namely the Ulster Unionists , and I be not entirely sure that all political party on the unionist side do so now . there may have be consensus on the principle of the idea , but I be lead to believe that when it come to try to deliver on the agreement , the First and Deputy First Ministers come to what be then her Majesty ' s Government and say , " this be all too difficult to do in Stormont : please do it in Westminster . " that be an interesting take on the matter , give what I remember happen at the time . yes , the Ulster Unionists have some reservation about the agreement , but all the other party support it . it be up to the British Government , along with the Irish Government , to implement it , and it be only because the British Government go off on their own — without the Irish Government — and undermine it by ignore rather than implement it that the Bill have end up in this place . in my strong view , this be where the British Government have always want to take thing . let I say to the hon . Gentleman , with the great respect , that he have his particular view of what happen follow Stormont House , but I believe that history say something a bit different . Herein lie the issue for we all . it be a question for the party opposite , and it be a question for all member in this place : if not the Bill , then what ? there be no agreement follow Stormont House . family have go for year , for decade , without answer to what happen to their love one , and I believe that the Bill be the right way forward at this point . history have be revisit in many different way when it come to how agreement might have work in the past . may I just point out that " New Decade , New Approach " , which be author by this Government through one of the Secretary of State ' s predecessor , contain a specific commitment to implement Stormont House ? as recently as January 2020 , it be the explicit policy of the Government to deliver it . it be there , in black and white , in " New Decade , New Approach " . the hon . Gentleman be right , but that become unworkable and impractical because the political consensus simply be not there when it come to legislation . the hon . member for Foyle ask what would happen if someone lie to the ICRIR . well , that person simply would not be grant immunity : he would lose that immunity as a result of the new offence in the Bill . can the Secretary of State think of any time in history when a murderer lie ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his concise argument , but I can also think of no part of Northern Ireland ' s history when we have manage to reach a point at which there be consensus on this issue . I believe that the ICRIR will have the ability both to carry out criminal investigation and to conduct review and get information for family , and that must be a step forward . my right hon . friend the Member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) ask about article 2 . let I make it clear that the Government amendment go no far than exist obligation under the Human Rights Act 1998 , and that , specifically , they do not alter the material or temporal scope of those obligation as they apply to trouble - relate case , include those that he mention . I think I answer that in a slightly more concise way when he pick it up . the hon . member for Hove ( Peter Kyle ) mention a host of thing , but I believe he misrepresent the Bill and a number of thing in it . what he say about the perjury aspect of the Bill be straightforwardly wrong . perjury provision exist in the Bill . anyone provide an account to the ICRIR when apply for immunity will have to provide an account that be truthful and if they do not , they will not get immunity . may I start to conclude my comment by thank my civil servant for all the work that they have do on the Bill , especially over the course of the past year . I would like to think that everybody recognise the huge amount of work that have go on . will the Secretary of State give way ? I be afraid I do not have the time . I wish to close by reiterate that the Government have seek to make a realistic assessment of what we can well deliver for family , over a quarter of a century after the Belfast / Good Friday agreement and nearly 30 year since the first ceasefire and well over 50 year since the trouble begin . I recognise that this be challenge for all those involve , but I be prepared to make this difficult decision to try and help Northern Ireland to take a step forward towards reconciliation . this government will give people the accountability , acknowledgment and information they require to allow Northern Ireland to become a more reconcile society . it be a matter for regret , though , that the Labour party would rather see veteran and victim treat the same as terrorist . during the Bill ' s Second Reading , in May 2022 , the hon . member for Hove say : " I have be very clear : I want to make sure that the right of victim and veteran be equal to the right of terrorist and people who commit crime in the era of the trouble " . — [ Official Report , 24 May 2022 ; Vol . 715 , c . 193 . ] the Secretary of State be quote from a response to an intervention from the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) , where I state categorically , in the full extent of the reply , that the Bill give more right to terrorist than victim . that be what the full response say . what he read be out of context . I would also quickly say to the Secretary of State that I do not mention perjury in my opening speech . could he address the issue that I do raise in my speech — not the one I do not ? I think I might have strike a nerve there . today the Government will demonstrate that they be commit to get victim — veteran be victim , as the hon . Gentleman say — the family and survivor answer , when Labour simply — two hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords amendment , the debate be interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the question already propose from the Chair ( Standing Order no . 83F ) , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 20 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 20 disagree to . clause 18 - immunity from prosecution Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 44 . — ( Chris Heaton - Harris . ) Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Peter Aldous Lucy Allan Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin John Baron Simon Baynes Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Andrew Bridgen Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Felicity Buchan Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Rob Butler Alun Cairns Andy Carter James Cartlidge Bill Cash Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Alex Chalk Rehman Chishti Christopher Chope Jo Churchill Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Stephen Crabb Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch James Daly David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Philip Davies David Davis Dehenna Davison Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Leo Docherty Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Richard Drax Flick Drummond David Duguid Iain Duncan Smith Mark Eastwood Ruth Edwards Michael Ellis Natalie Elphicke George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Michael Fabricant Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Liam Fox Mark Francois Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Marcus Fysh Mark Garnier Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Peter Gibson Jo Gideon John Glen Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Richard Graham James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Andrew Griffith James Grundy Jonathan Gullis Robert Halfon Luke Hall Mark Harper Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Simon Hart John Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Philip Hollobone Adam Holloway Paul Holmes John Howell Paul Howell Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Gareth Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones David Jones Fay Jones Marcus Jones Simon Jupp Daniel Kawczynski Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Julian Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Chris Loder Mark Logan Marco Longhi Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Craig Mackinlay Cherilyn Mackrory Rachel Maclean Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Stephen McPartland Esther McVey Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Anne Marie Morris David Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Guy Opperman Mark Pawsey Mike Penning John Penrose Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Mark Pritchard Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Tom Randall John Redwood Jacob Rees - Mogg Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Laurence Robertson Mary Robinson Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob Seely Grant Shapps David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Chloe Smith Greg Smith Henry Smith Royston Smith Amanda Solloway Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Andrew Stephenson Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Derek Thomas Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Shailesh Vara Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Charles Walker Robin Walker Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Heather Wheeler Craig Whittaker John Whittingdale Bill Wiggin James Wild Craig Williams Gavin Williamson Mike Wood William Wragg Nadhim Zahawi Jacob Young Julie Marson Diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Jon Ashworth Hannah Bardell Paula Barker Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Mhairi Black Ian Blackford Ben Bradshaw Deidre Brock Alan Brown Lyn Brown Nick Brown Chris Bryant Karen Buck Richard Burgon Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Amy Callaghan Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Douglas Chapman Joanna Cherry Feryal Clark Daisy Cooper Ronnie Cowan Neil Coyle Stella Creasy Jon Cruddas Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Alex Davies - Jones Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Thangam Debbonaire Tan Dhesi Samantha Dixon Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Jeffrey M . Donaldson Allan Dorans Stephen Doughty Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Clive Efford Julie Elliott Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Stephen Farry Marion Fellows Stephen Flynn Yvonne Fovargue Vicky Foxcroft Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Patricia Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Paul Girvan Mary Glindon Patrick Grady Peter Grant Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Drew Hendry Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Kate Hollern Stewart Hosie George Howarth Imran Hussain Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Kevan Jones Ruth Jones Mike Kane Stephen Kinnock Peter Kyle Ben Lake Ian Lavery Chris Law Kim Leadbeater David Linden Tony Lloyd Carla Lockhart Rebecca Long - Bailey Caroline Lucas Holly Lynch John McNally Andy McDonald Stuart McDonald John Martin McDonnell Pat McFadden Conor McGinn Catherine McKinnell Anne McLaughlin Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Ed Miliband Navendu Mishra Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Ian Murray Lisa Nandy Gavin Newlands Charlotte Nichols John Nicolson Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Kirsten Oswald Sarah Owen Ian Paisley Jnr Stephanie Peacock Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Lucy Powell Anum Qaisar Yasmin Qureshi Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Marie Rimmer Gavin Robinson Matt Rodda Lloyd Russell - Moyle Naseem Shah Jim Shannon Virendra Sharma Barry Sheerman Andrew Slaughter Alyn Smith Cat Smith Jeff Smith Alex Sobel John Spellar Chris Stephens Jo Stevens Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Zarah Sultana Mark Tami Sam Tarry Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Richard Thomson Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Derek Twigg Liz Twist Valerie Vaz Christian Wakeford Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Philippa Whitford Mick Whitley Nadia Whittome Hywel Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mohammad Yasin Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Colleen Fletcher the House divide : Ayes 292 , Noes 200 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 44 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) to ( c ) make to the word so restore to the Bill . lord amendment 1 to 19 , 21 to 43 , 45 to 118 , 120 to 129 and 119 agree to . government consequential amendment ( a ) make to Lords amendment 119 . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I recently ask the Minister for Immigration what the cost to the taxpayer be of paint over mural feature cartoon design to welcome lone child refugee at an immigration centre . the Minister reply , say that there be no cost . to I , this answer do not seem to be possible , unless overstretched worker be redeploy from far more pressing duty and the Minister himself bring the paint in from home . can I seek your advice on how I can get clarity on the accuracy of the Minister ' s answer ? order . the hon . Lady will be fully aware that all member , include Ministers , be responsible for the word that they utter in this Chamber . the usual channel will have hear what she have have to say . if the Minister choose to come to the House and make a comment or correct a statement then that be up to the Minister , but it be not a point of order for the Chair . Environmental Protection I beg to move , that the draft Environmental Civil Sanctions ( England ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 12 July , be approve . with this it will be convenient to consider the follow motion : that the draft Environmental Permitting ( England and Wales ) ( Amendment ) ( England ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 12 July , be approve . the purpose of these instrument be to strengthen environmental civil sanction , so that our environmental regulator can apply an unlimited penalty to company that break the term of their permit and do damage to the environment . we be also make it easy for such penalty to be apply rather than have to resort exclusively to take polluter to court for fine to be apply . rightly , the Government care about the environment , as do the public . in January , we publish our environmental improvement plan , which set out an ambitious five - year blueprint for action to make our country clean and greener , to restore nature and to improve the state of our environment . in April , we set out our comprehensive integrate plan for clean and plentiful water . both plan demonstrate our ambition and the action that we would undertake to have a laser - like focus on clean up the environment , include enable our regulator to enforce the law effectively and efficiently . let I turn to the enabler that we be debate today . first , the current provision for variable monetary penalty under the Environmental Civil Sanctions ( England ) Order 2010 be cap at £ 250 , 000 . possible penalty be suppose to be an effective deterrent to poor performance . unfortunately , it seem that some operator may have price in the fact that it can be cheap to pay the current penalty than to fix the problem and tackle the pollution . of course , people who breach their permit and pollute can be take to court face a criminal conviction and be face with an unlimited fine and the prospect of go to prison . however , we know that such investigation and court case can take year to accomplish such an outcome . therefore , I be clear that we must provide a strong deterrent , particularly for large operator with significant turnover . I very much welcome these government measure . last week , we on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee have an emergency session with Thames Water , Ofwat and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . we receive strong confirmation that the regulator and the Environment Agency now have the tooth that they need to hold pollute water company to account with unlimited fine or by stop dividend be pay out . do my right hon . friend agree that this Conservative Government be the first Government to take clear and strong action , and that this be in strong contrast to some of the toxic rubbish that come out especially from the Liberal Democrats , who , I notice , be not in the Chamber today ? they seem to forget that , when they have a water Minister during the coalition , they do nothing on this . order . I have two point to make . first , intervention should be intervention , not speech . secondly , there be a lot of chirrup go on . even if I be the only person in the House who want to hear what the Secretary of State and shadow Secretary of State have to say , then I want to be able to hear . my hon . friend be absolutely right about these measure . by vote for they today — of course , they also need to go through the Lords — we will give our regulator all the tool that they need and that they have ask for to tackle this situation . he be right that it be a bit of a surprise that the liberal Democrats be absent , but there we go . we will be able to remind people that , when Parliament be vote for this legislation , the Liberal Democrats be nowhere to be see . secondly , there be currently no provision under the Environmental Permitting ( England and Wales ) Regulations 2016 for variable monetary penalty . the majority of Environment Agency investigation be conduct under those regulation , and at the moment the Environment Agency be limit in its enforcement option to give warning , advice , guidance or enforcement undertaking , or indeed have to go the whole hog and undertake formal criminal prosecution . the secondary legislation that we be debate will introduce variable monetary penalty to the 2016 regulation , ensure a comprehensive , clear , effective and proportionate deterrent within the environmental civil sanction regime . penalty will be base on the degree of environmental harm and culpability , as well as the size of the operator . they be calibrate to act as a proportionate deterrent and punishment , and both instrument will require the environmental regulator to update and publish guidance that set out their methodology for determine the penalty level . last year , Anglian Water use its storm overflow in Southend West at least 13 time , which result in diluted sewage water be pump into our water for at least 24 hour , which be simply unacceptable . will my right hon . friend confirm that today ' s measure , which I welcome , will mean that Anglian Water will face severe penalty if it break the rule again , and will she assure everyone in Southend and Leigh - on - Sea that we will finally have a real deterrent against it use those unacceptable practice ? my hon . friend be right . by give our regulator the tool that they have ask we for , we be take action . of course , the only reason we know about the storm overflow be the level of monitoring , which be pretty much completely absent before the conservative party take power in 2010 . it be critical that we use our tool effectively to ensure that people who have these permit be do the right thing . the uncapped penalty will certainly be a deterrent . can the Secretary of State reassure we that any fine will be use to improve water infrastructure in the local area ? indeed . I be plan to explain shortly how the penalty will be use . they will go into the new water restoration fund . it be my decision that that will be localise to the region of the water company that it apply to — ideally as local as possible . it certainly will not go back to the water company to fix the problem that it be have . I understand what the Government be try to achieve , but as the Secretary of State point out , the Environment Agency could go through due process with the court , and there be already the sanction of unlimited fine . what will she do to protect a farmer , for instance , from unreasonable , heavy - handed fine by the Environment Agency , particularly as it now have an incentive to fine because it will keep the money for its own project ? on the farming law relate to water , we normally find that people be not try to break the law deliberately , so it be about guidance and how we make the fix , but we have to act and , where necessary — in severe or continuous case — undertake a criminal investigation . that will always be a decision for the regulator — the Environment Agency , in this case . that be where an element of judgment can and should be apply , but ultimately we have to allow our regulator to use the full force of the power available to it to clean our water and improve our environment . what will be do to force the Environment Agency to do its duty ? in the low Avon , north of my constituency , flood across the area be affect farmland because the Environment Agency have refuse to enforce the law and ensure that the blockage at the Knapp Mill waterworks be remove . clearly , my hon . friend be an assiduous constituency MP in raise this issue during our discussion about how penalty can be apply . if he would like to write to I with more detail , I could ask the new chief executive of the Environment Agency to investigate the matter far and respond to he directly . my right hon . friend be be generous in give way . my constituent , almost by historical accident , have the privilege of pay two water bill rather than one — one to Anglian Water and another to Essex & Suffolk Water — for different aspect of their water usage . they have see those bill increase considerably in the last couple of year . as well as fine water company for get it wrong , since she mention the regulator , can she please put pressure on Ofwat to do everything it can to make sure that those increase be , first , fully justified and , secondly , as low as practically possible ? we be stray somewhat from the purpose of the statutory instrument that we be deal with today , but I have that same situation whereby Anglian Water cover sewerage and Essex & Suffolk Water cover the supply of water . one critical element in the price review process that we have be that Ofwat go through a mechanism of work through with water company what they be allow to invest in and , as a consequence , what the bill change could be . we have a situation where bill go up with inflation — that have be part of the mechanism so far , and there be a price review process under way , but I have listen carefully to what my right hon . Friend say . it have always be the case that Ofwat be there to ensure that the investment that be require in our waterway and our sewerage be make , to ensure that we get good value for money . it be important to note that these si cover what happen when we see water company and other operator , have have that ability to invest , breach their permit . we want to make sure that the penalty be uncap in order to act as an effective deterrent , as I have mention . hon . member have ask how some of those penalty will be apply . I expect that , as now , the Environment Agency will use the guideline for environmental offence , which be publish by the independent Sentencing Council , to determine the level of all variable monetary penalty . think particularly of some of the very small business cover by the environmental permitting regime , that will also include a number of safeguard to make sure that penalty be proportionate . on the subject of penalty , one thing probably annoy most of we — it certainly annoy many of my constituent — be that whatever happen , the chief executive seem to get a massive dividend . when it come to damage and penalty , be it possible that those dividend could be retrieve and use for the betterment of customer ? the water industry in Northern Ireland be not cover by the UK Government . it be a separate system , so with the great respect I think the hon . Gentleman will need to follow that up with the Northern Ireland Executive when they be reform , which I hope will be soon . however , I will also ask the permanent secretary to write to he in that regard . the regulation apply only to England . we invite the Welsh Government to join we in make the regulation , but they feel unable to act at the pace at which we have act . that be not to say there be not sewage spillage or other environmental breach in Wales — there be : we know that on average there be 38 spillage from Welsh storm overflow last year , compare with 23 in England . the new regulation sit alongside the freedom that we have give Ofwat to link water company dividend to environmental performance . as I have refer to , the fine and penalty will be reinveste in local water improvement scheme through our new water restoration fund , while the water company will pay the polluter penalty and will have to fix the problem at no cost to the bill payer . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s very timely regulation . this Thursday I be meet the Environment Agency , along with two of my local angling society , the Royal Tunbridge Wells Angling Society and the Dorset Arms Angling Club . Southern Water regularly pollute the tributary of the upper Medway , cause great damage to the natural environment and to those angle society . will the fine that be to be levy be available to the angle society to restore the stock of fish in which they have invest , which have be destroy by those breach by Southern Water ? my right hon . friend make an interesting point . it be the intention that the penalty will be put into the water restoration fund and use primarily in that local area and certainly not beyond the boundary of the water company involve . if that be persistent , I would expect the Environment Agency to tackle the situation . it may be such a severe case that it merit criminal prosecution , but what we be do today be enable the Environment Agency , and indeed other regulator , to act much more swiftly to apply penalty that be a strong deterrent . I should point out that these new change apply to all industry that operate under the environmental permitting regime , so the strengthen deterrent will also apply , for example , to waste site operator . the regulation show that , yet again , this Conservative Government be take action to improve our environment . I commend the regulation to the House . the only reason we be here today be that , after 13 year , the country we love , and the quality of life for million of work people , be suffer from the Tory sewage scandal . as a direct result of the Government ' s action , raw human waste be dump across our country for more than 11 million hour , result in 1 . 5 million sewage dump — more than 800 every single day . million of water customer — our constituent — have pay their hard - earn money in good faith for their waste water to be treat properly . instead , they see the place that they care about — the place where they have put down root and invest their family ' shared future — be pollute . those sewage dump go into the sea , where people swim ; into the canal , along which people cycle and walk their dog on the towpath ; into the river , where people fish or canoe ; on to the beach , where our child and grandchild build sandcastle ; and , of course , into our leisure and beauty hotspot , where hard - work local business rely on tourist to come flock in number . on 14 October last year , I ask the Government what assessment have be make of " the economic impact of beach closure as a result of sewage pollution on coastal business " . the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , the hon . member for Copeland ( Trudy Harrison ) , confirm that her Department have not make such an assessment . can the Secretary tell I today whether her Department have finally work out the economic impact of sewage discharge on those business — yes or no ? do the hon . Gentleman agree that there be scaremongere by Opposition mp about the level of sewage be discharge , and that some of we have outstanding bathing water on our beach because there have already be significant investment ? it be important to recognise the difference between combined sewer overflow and the alternative to it run out to sea ; less than 5 % be contaminate water . be it rush up through people ' s front room ? nuance and fact do matter in this type of debate , but the fact speak for themselves , frankly : go by the Government ' s figure , there be 800 such discharge each and every day . as we see right across the country , include in my own region , beach be completely close off to member of the public , and that have a material impact on the business who rely in good faith on tourist come . that be the live experience of people there , and we should not decry that either , so let we get the balance right and accept that this issue need to be address . a responsible Government would undertake an economic impact assessment to truly understand the impact of the problem , but the order itself state that an economic " impact assessment have not be produce for this instrument as no , or no significant , impact on the private , voluntary or public sector be foresee . " that feel to I as if the Government have their head in the sand . as the hon . Gentleman will know , there be a great deal of debate at the moment not just about the Government ' s spend plan but about those of his Majesty ' s official opposition . everyone know that prevent any discharge of any kind would involve the investment of hundred of billion of pound . as the Secretary of State have already make plain , the Government be commit to spend billion as it be . if Labour think that we be not do enough , how much more money would it spend on this that we be not already commit to ? give we a number . I will check the voting record later , but we present our plan to Parliament , and member have the choice to vote for or against it . that plan would have see sewage discharge end by 2030 . we believe , and the evidence say , that that could be do with the money that be currently be derive from dividend . that be how it would be fund , and that would mean bill payer be protect . I be disappointed that the Government do not support that , but we be where we be . rise — I be go to make some progress . perhaps he could tell we , as it be his plan , what the figure be ? order . if the right hon . Gentleman be excited at this point , he be go to get even more animate shortly , so he should bear with I . what we see today be not just the result of Government inaction or an industry too focus on short - term dividend payout , above the long - term interest of the country . More than that , it be about a system of regulation that be not just ineffective but a clear part of the problem . all the failing we see in the sector have build up in plain sight of Ofwat , as the financial regulator , and the Environment Agency — debt pile up , dividend pour out , sewage be dump , water leak lead to supply shortage , and at least one water company now on the financial cliff edge . these water company have not act under the radar ; they have do it all in plain sight , all allow to get completely out of hand and all sign off . we know that Ofwat already have the power today to issue unlimited fine , to curb dividend and to stop the debt mountain get even high . the chair of the Environment Agency speak out against the previous £ 250 million cap propose by the Government , say at an Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee hear just a few month ago : " the previous Secretary of State suggest that the limit on penalty should increase from £ 250 , 000 to £ 250 million . that be a number that I believe to be high than should be give to we for a penalty that we can impose . " he go on to say : " my personal view be in the £ 10 million to £ 25 million range . " that be the chair of the agency that these power be be hand over to for unlimited fine . in there lie the truth — water down the threat of action and water down the consequence , too . rather than go far than what be previously announce , what we see in practice be the Government go backwards , now suggest penalty just of between 5 % and 10 % of the cap previously moot . the Government know that this be not an answer to the Tory sewage scandal and , more than that , the water company know full well that it be not either . they know it be not even business as usual . I be concern about the very likely consequence that we will see even less money be take in penalty and fine , as the regulator move away from use its criminal power to civil power , with grubby backroom deal be strike in favour of the water company . there be also the risk , as we have see in the case of Thames Water , that even where water company be find to have deliberately frustrate and mislead an investigation , criminal power to hold individual to account be not use . regulator under pressure to demonstrate that this cut - price policy be deliver the good , match with a lack of capacity and political will to undertake criminal investigation , could well mean that offender be let off the hook . water boss be already give a " get out of jail free " card , and now they will not even see the inside of a courtroom — that be what this will do . what safeguard will be in place to ensure that there be full transparency on financial penalty , to rule out cut - price discount or dodgy deal in backroom ? give what have come to pass , will the Secretary of State use this opportunity to give notice to the regulator that the watchdog themselves be now be watch ? the Labour party present a Bill to the House on 25 April that would have end the Tory sewage scandal by 2030 . that Bill propose four crucial measure to reduce sewage discharge while ensure that no further burden be add to household bill . first , it would have set a legal requirement for the monitoring of all sewage outlet and penalty if company fail to monitor . secondly , it would have introduce automatic fine for sewage dumping . thirdly , Labour ' s plan would have implement a legally bind target to reduce dumping by 90 % by 2030 . finally , it would have require the Secretary of State to publish a strategy for the reduction of sewage discharge and , importantly , regular economic impact assessment . that be a plan — that be labour ' s plan — but the Tories block it . they march through the Lobby to make sure it would not get time to be debate in this House . do the hon . Gentleman agree that Labour ' s plan , let alone not be fully cost , would have triple the bill that householder have to pay and would have see sewage back up in people ' s home ? that be the reality of labour ' s plan ; they do not want to admit it , but that be the reality . government Members seem to be under the misapprehension that our costing for the manifesto be in line with contract award for personal protective equipment . they absolutely be not . we be of the opinion — the industry say this , as do the regulator — that our plan be affordable within the envelope of money that be currently be take out for shareholder dividend . if shareholder can find £ 72 billion of our money to go out in dividend , they can find the money to fix the system and put right the wrong . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some progress . since we present that Bill to the House for debate , 40 , 000 sewage dump have take place . labour ' s plan would have ensure that polluter pay the moment they start dump sewage , not month or year after the event , with investigation and lawyer need to make a ruling . as such , I ask the Secretary of State whether her Department have consider the potential benefit of introduce automatic fine for sewage dumping . do she agree that that would save regulator time and money , and do the right thing by bill payer and the environment ? it be not just the coastline that be suffer from the Tory sewage scandal : sewage , unfortunately , be close than many believe . our national park , lake and river — the artery of our nation — be be sully by Tory - sanction sewage dumping . this be not just an environmental crisis , or an economic one for our coastal business : it be about whether family can live decent and fulfil life . the hon . Gentleman describe a very long - stand problem . do he have evidence to suggest that the problem be any less during the year before 2010 , when the Labour party be in office ? I be very proud of labour ' s record of leave the clean air and water since before the industrial revolution . what the data say — dump by dump , outlet by outlet , beach by beach , lake by lake , river by river — be that , year on year , the problem be get bad under the Tories , not well . it have all be sanction by the Tories . will the hon . Gentleman give way on that point ? I will make some progress , if I may . this be all about whether family can live decent and fulfil life in the place where we live , where we work and where we holiday together — where family create memory , forge bond and strengthen relationship by enjoy the beauty that our country have to offer . it be moment like those that make life worth live . in the middle of the Tory cost of living crisis , household be be hammer from every angle , with rocket food price — again , straight to the door of the Secretary of State — soar energy bill and crippling mortgage rate . when it come to people ' s water bill , the public be pay for a service that be not be deliver . that be be feel across the country , include in recent week on the doorstep of Uxbridge and South Ruislip and Selby and Ainsty . I can tell the Secretary of State that people be not buy her party ' s excuse . they want a well Britain , and that start with treat our country , the public , and business with the respect they deserve . labour could vote against these measure . it be true that they do not go far enough ; that they carry a significant risk of actually weaken enforcement ; and that there be little evidence that we will see the change need . however , we will not allow the Government that excuse . if a vote do come , we will vote for the measure , for one reason only : to prove that , for all the talk of action , in the end , nothing will change until we get a change of Government , because only Labour will end the Tory sewage scandal . the title of these statutory instrument be " Environmental Protection " , but they should perhaps properly be name as the continue protection of the over - mighty quango of Natural England and the Environment Agency . I be concerned to see that no additional power or extension of their power be give without their also be fundamentally reform , together with a modern , fit - for - purpose water regulation structure , and I have make that case before in this place . I understand that the purpose of these regulation be to change the balance of cost and fine for water - base pollution so that the natural market driver will make it less expensive to comply with investing in upgrade infrastructure , rather than to pay the cost of pollution . if a water company get an eye - watering , attention - grab fine , the investor and manager will be press to take action . I understand that the intention be that no consumer will pay , either by increase charge or decrease investment . furthermore , I understand that arrangement will be make to keep the value of fine for investment in the particular region affect . I know that the Secretary of State and the Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Taunton Deane ( Rebecca Pow ) — be personally deeply committed to this issue . they have lead the way in this House with groundbreake legislation and action . however , it have be my experience of Ofwat , Natural England and the Environment Agency that good intention may not translate into effective delivery , and I would like to expand on that . tackle sewage have be one of my primary piece of work as the Member for Dover and Deal . it be an issue I care about very deeply , because repeat sewage flooding into people ' s home be incredibly damaging , and devastating for those affect . they find themselves constantly on alert for flood warning , with carpet and possession damage or destroy , and back garden water by thing other than rain , while insurance premium soar and house be difficult to sell . that be why repeat sewage flooding be subject to specific regulatory intervention . one of my early challenge have be to address decade - long sewage flooding in the town of Deal , and in Albert Road in particular . I do all the thing that mps normally do . I meet resident , write letter , speak in this place , meet Ministers , ask Ofwat to use its regulatory enforcement power , and meet the chief executive of Ofwat to make the case , but none of that move the dial . why be that ? because , when I finally manage to get out of Ofwat what be go on , it would not use its regulatory power because there be not an agree solution . at the heart of the problem be a traditional Bazalgette system , or the combined surface water and sewage approach that we have have in our country for a very long time . that system apply in one part of Deal , but not in the rest , and it be not physically possible to separate out the combine system within the historic structure of the town , even if it be financially viable to do so . every party involve follow every sewage issue — from the highway authority to council , the drainage board and the water company — each have a different technical report and view , and each of they put responsibility for solve it on the other . pretty much my whole career have be one of problem solve in one form or another , and I know a bit about water infrastructure and regulation because I carry out a year - long research programme into it before I come into this place , so I decide to do what I would do if I be not an MP . I pick up the phone to the chief executive and ask to meet . I put forward a proposal to set up a joint taskforce that be chair by the then chief executive , Ian McAulay , and I as the Member of Parliament . Southern Water agree to fund a top expert team , lead by Doctor Nick Mills and Rob McTaggart , to work out what be possible . Southern Water agree to this approach , provide I could convene the other statutory body to take part with the same degree of commitment to solve this long - stand problem , and that be what be happen . six month ' work have lead to 12 month ' work , and it be now one of the pathfinder project , bring hundred of thousand of pound of new investment to deal — more than £ 500 , 000 to date , with more committed expenditure — and bring in innovation in " slow the flow " work right across the town of Deal . work be ongoing on technical engineering solution and environmentally base solution , which be the so - call nature - base solution . we be determined to see the programme through in order to tackle long - stand flooding and be an early adopter of the elimination of sewage outflow . there will be a showcase to Parliament in the autumn , and I very much hope that Ministers and Members who be interested , and who be perhaps speak in today ' s debate , will come and see how we be approach this . what matter to our constituent be what work , and what work be technical solution to technical problem . that have be my experience on the ground , and it be also the expert advice on this issue from the Institution of Civil Engineers . it have advise that the water regulatory framework need update , that there need to be well testing and assessment of the nature - base solution , and that nature - base solution need to be well incorporate into the planning system for the build environment . who have not be in the room , and who have not be part of the solution ? that be either the Environment Agency or Natural England . that matter because these new mega - fine will be impose by body that have no idea , and no role in solve these issue . the fine will be impose on water company , without require other relevant and necessary party to come to the table and work through proper technical and deliverable solution for the benefit of our community . the fine could be impose on water company that have already agree an investment strategy to tackle this issue , include the cost to the consumer , and agree to by their own regulator , Ofwat . there be a clear disconnect in what be be discuss today . although one must hope that the agency will act responsibly , holistically and sensibly , current evidence do not support that . Natural England ' s first moratorium on house building be impose in June 2019 . since then , ban on new build have spread to more than a quarter of England ' s local authority area , affect around 145 , 000 home across 74 local authority area , from Cornwall to the Tees Valley , and a further 41 , 000 few home be expect to be build each year until a solution be find . that solution will not be find in Natural England . my hon . friend be right to bring up the problem for house building from the nutrient neutrality programme . do she agree that the way to solve that problem and reinforce the Government ' s welcome effort to prevent pollution lie within the water industry itself , and with well treatment of sewage , so that we achieve nutrient neutrality without the slightly blunt instrument that Natural England have choose to use over the past couple of year ? I thank my right hon . friend for those comment , because he be absolutely right . blunt instrument will not solve the issue that be block house building in our community , and we have not see a solution from Natural England that will bring those solution forward . he be correct to comment on the failure of water company to invest , which have contribute to this issue , in addition to the root cause of agricultural run - off in river pollution . it be estimate that all exist development — residential , commercial and the rest of the build environment — contribute less than 5 % towards the phosphate and nitrate load in our river . that mean that occupant of any new home build would make a negligible difference to that issue , yet it have an enormous cost and impact on the community where those new home be not be build . while those much - need new home with their negligible impact be block by Natural England , the Environment Agency be allow farmer to pollute with high - nutrient fertiliser , which be themselves a source of nutrient pollute problem . planning permission continue to be grant for high - intensity poultry unit , for example , result in the absurd situation where a developer may be force to buy a pig farm and close it down , in order to get permission to build home , only for the now cash - rich farmer to open another new pig farm just down the road . while the rich farmer get rich , the small and medium - sized enterprise developer go bust . a delegation of SME builder bring their case to Downing Street this month . the large developer Redrow have just announce plan to close its office in the Southern and Thames Valley region , which be one of the area affect by the nutrient issue . the Secretary of State be aware that I and many other colleague be gravely concerned about the propose approach of keep Natural England in control , as currently set out in the Levelling - up and Regeneration Bill . that continue to put immense uncontrolle power over the shape and delivery of our home and community with an unelected , unaccountable , single - purpose quango in Natural England . as the House may know , it be not often that my right hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Damian Green ) and I agree on much , but on this he be absolutely right . Natural England be become an over - mighty regulator , and it be refer to directly in the regulation that we be debate . do my hon . friend agree that it should stay in its lane , do what it do well , and not keep try to expand its empire into area where it be not well qualified to judge ? I be struggle to think of those lane where Natural England do thing well . an overhaul of these quango be require , because they be now make decision about community policy and economic matter without any of the accountability and balance that Ministers would have over these issue . I thank my right hon . friend for make those point . move on , the water restoration fund be where all these mega fine will be put . the Department ' s press release in April 2023 refer to some £ 141 million in fine that have be collect since 2015 . they currently go to the Treasury but will now go to the new water restoration fund . it seem that £ 140 million in the fund be clearly not enough , so we now have an unlimited amount — perhaps billion of pound of fine — that will be available for , as set out in the press release , community - lead project . I have vision of an army of green wellie wade through river , remove non - native and invasive specie , pick up net and unblock blockage that would cause barrier to fish ' natural movement in river , as the Department ' s press release mention . however , the Government already have a proper water regulator , although it need reform , for the industry . it need to be the body drive through the change need to deal with the historical Bazalgette - style water engineering . that change can only happen with big - ticket investment and complex technical solution . it be not one for the green welly brigade or the orange just stop Oil brigade . to conclude , will the Secretary of State look again at the relationship between Ofwat — the water regulator — the Environment Agency and Natural England in relation to this matter ? I have set out a case for the reform of those body . in relation to today ' s statutory instrument , high fine will not in themselves lead to solution . the only solution to this issue will be detail , complex , technical and professional , such as those we have pioneer with the Deal Water Action Taskforce with Southern Water , and also those set out by the Institution of Civil Engineers and the National Infrastructure Commission . by fail to keep big quango in check , I be afraid that DEFRA be responsible for a substantial fall in house building in this country . it be vital that do not happen to investment in our water company too , and that we see well regulation , effective working and technical solution deliver on the ground and in the waterway for the benefit of our community and constituent , and for the natural environment . I want to make only a few brief point . first , the purpose of these regulation be to strengthen the civil sanction available for environmental regulator in England , include Natural England and the Environment Agency , in order to provide a great deterrent against environmental offence for operator . a number of colleague on this side of the House have already express concern about the extent to which those regulator be perhaps expand their remit — we might call it " remit creep " , for want of a well term — and not necessarily make the good possible decision as a result . in that context , will the Secretary of State look again at the remit of those regulator , in particular Natural England , and enter into a conversation , perhaps over a cup of tea , about whether they be go beyond the remit that Parliament give they ? as they be mention in the regulation today , I take the opportunity to make that request . secondly , I notice from the Order Paper that both these statutory instrument — the House have agree to take they together — have not be clear by the Joint Committee on Statutory Instruments . before anyone get overly excited , that be not unknown — there be sometimes good reason for why they have to be bring to the House before the JCSI have have an opportunity to scrutinise they — but it be slightly unusual . when the Secretary of State reply to the debate , perhaps she could explain to the House why that be the case . I be sure there be a perfectly legitimate reason , but it might be helpful for she to get that on the record . thirdly , I can report that I have have quite a lot of email from my constituent about sewage discharge . People in Rayleigh and Wickford be just as concerned about this issue as anyone else , and no one want to see sewage — particularly if it be untreated — be discharge into our river , our estuary or , indeed , the sea . on that , I suspect we could achieve unanimity across the House . however , as I intimate in my intervention , there be already billion of pound go in from the Government to try to reduce those discharge as far as be practically possible so that they would occur only in period of the most exceptional rainfall . in fairness , I give the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) , an opportunity to tell the House how much money labour would spend on this issue above and beyond the billion of pound that the Government be clearly commit to . [ interruption . ] well , he do not answer my question . he do . no , he do not . perhaps there be a reason why . on 25 April , the Daily Express report , " tory humiliate Labour as they ' re force to abstain on their own anti - sewage debate " . under the by - line of Christian Calgie , its senior political correspondent , the story state : " the Labour Party be leave humiliate by the Government in the House of Commons this afternoon … labour mp end up refuse to vote in favour of reduce sewage discharge . it ' s claim a senior Labour MP be overhear say ' we ' ve be make to look like ' " twit . I do not want to introduce a partisan element to the debate — [ interruption . ] no , no , but have hear the shadow Secretary of State ' s speech , in which he do that , I think it be only fair to reply in kind . I hope that when the Secretary of State reply to the debate , she will try to get elucidation from he on why Labour have this big Opposition day debate , make a big thing of it , brief the press , tell the country and then abstain . there must be some reason . if he be too embarrassed to tell the House of Commons , perhaps she can oblige . do my right hon . friend also note that , as the shadow Secretary of State talk about the passion with which Labour feel on this subject , not one single Labour Back - Bench MP be present , and that while the Government Benches be now almost full , just two Labour Back - Bench mp have appear , probably because they want to get warm ? I thank my hon . friend for that helpful observation . the passion on the Labour Back Benches have almost double in the last 15 minute . the whip have obviously be around the Tea Room and say , " it ' s look a bit thin at the back there , boy and girl . you ' d well get in there quickly . " so now — I want to be accurate — I count seven Labour mp in the Chamber . be I short - change anybody ? no . as for the abstention — [ hon . member : " they ' re come in now . " ] oh , crikey . keep go ; we could be in double figure in a minute . as for the abstention on 25 April , it be admittedly unusual to table an Opposition day motion and then abstain on it ; that be not an everyday thing . because the shadow Secretary of State say that Labour be so passionate about it , I can only assume that it be a passionate abstention . Labour feel so strongly that it deliberately choose one of its Opposition day debate to raise the issue , and then passionately abstain in person , as someone once famously say . if there be a really good explanation for that , I look forward to hear it from the opposition . in fact , I will allow — order . could I gently try to connect the hon . Gentleman ' s speech with the motion before the House ? in the interest of equity , I be allow the shadow Secretary of State to intervene on I . perhaps he could connect it ? he do not want to intervene to explain why Labour abstain on its own motion . go , go , go . in that case , perhaps the Secretary of State could help to elucidate , because the Labour party , clearly , be incapable of explain its own policy . on that point , so as not to detain we far , I conclude my remark . I be grateful to right hon . and hon . member for the wide - range contribution to the discussion of the regulation that we be bring forward today . across the country , people want to see an end to pollution and want polluter to pay . that be why we be bring forward these proposal . my right hon . and hon . friend be right to ask , what have we hear so far from Labour ? frankly , his Majesty ' s loyal opposition continue to mislead the public again and again at the Dispatch Box , but not the House because the Government and Back Benchers know that they be talk a load of the proverbial . there be no doubt that beach have be clean than they be under Labour . we know that through statistic , because Labour do nothing about it . when we come into office , if there have be a version of Labour ' s famous " there be no money leave " note lie at DEFRA ' s door , it would have say , " you ' re be sue by Europe because sewage be be discharge and we have do nothing about it . " that be what Labour do . the Labour Government know what be happen and they do nothing to stop it . for the avoidance of doubt , water policy be devolve . if Labour have a credible plan it would use it in Wales , but it do not , and we be see on average more sewage discharge there than in England . I be also concerned that the Opposition continue to accuse our civil servant of bad behaviour . I encourage the hon . member for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) to stop the practice of blame civil servant . go on about grubby backroom deal and suggest that our regulator would try to do that be a disgrace . I will apologise on his behalf to our civil servant and regulator . I do not accuse our civil servant of grubby backroom deal — that is behaviour I associate with the Opposition . the Government vote for Labour ' s motion on 25 April . it be Labour who run away embarrassed and expose , because we be already do what Labour be put forward — it be already in legislation and under way . labour seem to have forget that water policy have be devolve to the Labour Government in Wales . an element be clueless , and an element be accuse civil servant of potentially do grubby backroom deal . the Government will continue to clean up the mess that Labour leave behind . let I be clear : we be not here to be apologist for water company ; they need to clean up their act and cover the cost . it be up to water company to make sure that they direct any profit they make from billpayer ' hard - earn money into improvement . these regulation be what our regulator ask for . that be why we be back our regulator to help restore the environment . I commend these regulation to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Environmental Civil Sanctions ( England ) ( amendment ) Order 2023 , which be lay before this House on 12 July , be approve . resolve , that the draft Environmental Permitting ( England and Wales ) ( Amendment ) ( England ) ( no . 2 ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 12 July , be approve . — ( Th é r è se Coffey . ) online safety bill : carry - over extension ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 80a ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that the period on the expiry of which proceeding on the Online Safety Bill shall lapse in pursuance of paragraph ( 13 ) of Standing Order No . 80a , as extend by the Order of 13 March 2023 ( Online Safety bill : carry - over Extension ) , shall be far extend by 103 day until 31 October 2023 . — ( Paul scully ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Building and building that the draft Building Safety ( Leaseholder Protections etc . ) ( England ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 12 June , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Customs that the draft Postal Packets ( Miscellaneous Amendments ) Regulations 2023 , which be lay before this House on 29 June , be approve . — ( Mike Wood . ) diane Abbott Debbie Abrahams Bim Afolami Adam Afriyie Nickie Aiken Peter Aldous Tahir Ali Lucy Allan Mike Amesbury Fleur Anderson Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Caroline Ansell Tonia Antoniazzi Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Richard Bacon Shaun Bailey Siobhan Baillie Duncan Baker Steven Baker Harriett Baldwin Paula Barker John Baron Simon Baynes Margaret Beckett Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Scott Benton Paul Beresford Jake Berry Saqib Bhatti Ian Blackford Bob Blackman Peter Bone Andrew Bowie Graham Brady Suella Braverman Jack Brereton Paul Bristow Sara Britcliffe Deidre Brock Lyn Brown Nick Brown Anthony Browne Fiona Bruce Chris Bryant Felicity Buchan Karen Buck Robert Buckland Alex Burghart Richard Burgon Rob Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Alun Cairns Lisa Cameron Alan Campbell Alistair Carmichael Andy Carter James Cartlidge Miriam Cates Maria Caulfield Wendy Chamberlain Rehman Chishti Jo Churchill Feryal Clark Greg Clark Simon Clarke Theo Clarke Brendan Clarke - Smith Chris Clarkson Therese Coffey Elliot Colburn Damian Collins Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Neil Coyle Stephen Crabb Stella Creasy Virginia Crosbie Tracey Crouch Alex Cunningham Janet Daby Ashley Dalton James Daly Wayne David David Davies Gareth Davies James davy mim davy Alex Davies - Jones David Davis Dehenna Davison Martyn Day Marsha de Cordova Tan Dhesi Caroline Dinenage Sarah Dines Samantha Dixon Leo Docherty Martin Docherty Anneliese Dodds Michelle Donelan Steve Double Jackie Doyle - Price Flick Drummond David Duguid Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Ruth Edwards Clive Efford Julie Elliott Michael Ellis Chris Elmore Natalie Elphicke Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson George Eustice Luke Evans David Evennett Ben Everitt Laura Farris Simon Fell Anna Firth Colleen Fletcher Katherine Fletcher Mark Fletcher Nicholas Fletcher Vicky Ford Yvonne Fovargue Liam Fox Vicky Foxcroft Lucy Frazer George Freeman Mike Freer Louie French Richard Fuller Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Nusrat Ghani Nick Gibb Patricia Gibson Peter Gibson Jo Gideon Preet Kaur Gill John Glen Mary Glindon Robert Goodwill Michael Gove Peter Grant James Gray Chris Grayling Chris Green Damian Green Lilian Greenwood Andrew Griffith Nia Griffith James Grundy Andrew Gwynne Louise Haigh Robert Halfon Luke Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Harriet Harman Mark Harper Carolyn Harris Rebecca Harris Trudy Harrison Sally - Ann Hart Helen Hayes Oliver Heald Chris Heaton - Harris Gordon Henderson Darren Henry Antony Higginbotham Damian Hinds Margaret Hodge Sharon Hodgson Richard Holden Kate Hollern Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes George Howarth John Howell Paul Howell Neil Hudson Eddie Hughes Jane Hunt Tom Hunt Imran Hussain Alister Jack Ranil Jayawardena Mark Jenkinson Dr Caroline Johnson Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson David Johnston Andrew Jones Darren Jones Fay Jones Gerald Jones Kevan Jones Marcus Jones Ruth Jones Simon Jupp Mike Kane Alicia Kearns Gillian Keegan Stephen Kinnock Greg Knight Kate Kniveton Danny Kruger Peter Kyle John Lamont Robert Largan Pauline Latham Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrea Leadsom Ian Levy Andrew Lewer Brandon Lewis Ian Liddell - Grainger Tony Lloyd Chris Loder Mark Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Julia Lopez Jack Lopresti Jonathan Lord Tim Loughton Holly Lynch Rachel Maclean Angus MacNeil Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Anthony Mangnall Scott Mann Jerome Mayhew Paul Maynard Steve McCabe Jason McCartney Karl McCartney Andy McDonald John Martin McDonnell Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Ian Mearns Mark Menzies Johnny Mercer Huw Merriman Stephen Metcalfe Robin Millar Maria Miller Amanda Milling Nigel Mills Navendu Mishra Robbie Moore Penny Mordaunt Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Anne Marie Morris David Morris Grahame Morris James Morris Joy Morrissey Jill Mortimer Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Holly Mumby - Croft David Mundell Ian Murray Sheryll Murray Andrew Murrison Bob Neill Charlotte Nichols Lia Nici Caroline Nokes Jesse Norman Alex Norris Neil o ' Brien Matthew Offord Sarah Olney Chi Onwurah Guy Opperman Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Mark Pawsey Stephanie Peacock Mike Penning Matthew Pennycook John Penrose Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Chris Philp Daniel Poulter Rebecca Pow Victoria Prentis Tom Pursglove Jeremy Quin will Quince Yasmin Qureshi Tom Randall John Redwood Christina Rees Jonathan Reynolds Bell Ribeiro - Addy Nicola Richards Angela Richardson Marie Rimmer Mary Robinson Matt Rodda Douglas Ross Lee Rowley Dean Russell Lloyd Russell - Moyle David Rutley Gary Sambrook Selaine Saxby Paul scully Bob seely Naseem Shah David Simmonds Chris Skidmore Andrew Slaughter Cat Smith Chloe Smith Henry Smith Jeff Smith Royston Smith Alex Sobel Amanda Solloway John Spellar Ben Spencer Mark Spencer Alexander Stafford Chris Stephens Andrew Stephenson Jo Stevens Jane Stevenson John Stevenson Iain Stewart Wes Streeting Graham Stringer Graham Stuart Julian Sturdy Zarah Sultana James Sunderland Desmond Swayne Robert Syms Mark Tami Sam Tarry Derek Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Richard Thomson Stephen Timms Edward Timpson Kelly Tolhurst Craig Tracey Anne - Marie Trevelyan Jon Trickett Laura Trott Derek Twigg Liz Twist Shailesh Vara Valerie Vaz Matt Vickers Christian Wakeford Charles Walker Robin Walker Jamie Wallis Matt Warman Giles watle Suzanne Webb Claudia Webbe Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Mick Whitley John Whittingdale Nadia Whittome Bill Wiggin James Wild Hywel Williams Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Beth Winter Pete Wishart Mike Wood William Wragg Mohammad Yasin Nadhim Zahawi Daniel Zeichner Jacob Young Julie Marson Adam Afriyie Christopher Chope Jeffrey M . Donaldson Richard Drax Nicholas Fletcher Mark Francois Marcus Fysh Jonathan Gullis John Hayes Philip Hollobone David Jones Danny Kruger Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Craig Mackinlay Robin Millar Jacob Rees - Mogg Jim Shannon Greg Smith Sammy Wilson Gavin Robinson Paul Girvan the House divide : Ayes 402 , Noes 21 . question accordingly agree to . Petition - Hull York Dental School the Select Committee on Health and Social Care declare in its report publish last Friday , 14 July : " nhs dentistry be face a crisis of access " , and that will not come as news to the constituent of Hull West and Hessle . the National Audit Office rank East Riding of Yorkshire as have the third low count of dentist per head of population in the entire country . we desperately require more nhs dentist in the region , and this petition call for the establishment of a new dental school to help meet that need . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that the recent survey by the British Dental Association show the dental workforce have be reduce to a level not see since 2012 - 13 ; far that unmet need for dentistry be at record high at 1 in 4 of adult population in 2022 ; far that the proportion of dentist now report their intention to reduce – or far reduce – the amount of NHS work they undertake in 2023 stand at 74 % ; far that the National Audit Office rank the East Riding of Yorkshire as have the third low count of dentist per head of population in the country at 3 . 6 per 10 , 000 in its late report ; far that Hull have historically high level of tooth decay in child ; far that there be a direct correlation between increase rate of tooth extraction and the risk of mouth cancer ; far that there be an overwhelming need for more dentist in the region ; far that this need can be meet by train more dentist locally ; further note Hull York Medical School open in 2003 and now see over 150 newly qualified doctor a year enter the profession . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to facilitate the creation of a Hull York Dental School . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002844 ] Petition - Bank branch everyone deserve to be able to manage their own money , which be why bank have long be focal point within local community . however , branch closure — most recently the Bank of Scotland branch in Cupar and Falkland , and the Barclays branch in St Andrews — have leave a massive hole and create incredible stress for people who , for whatever reason , can not rely on online banking . this be particularly true in rural area . I present this petition on behalf of local resident who recently sign it , and on behalf of the many other who have speak to I on the doorstep about their concern . the petitioner " therefore request the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that the bank closure in North East Fife be reverse and all local bank branch be protect . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of North East Fife . declare that bank branch , particularly those in Cupar , Falkland and St Andrews be the heart of their community , and be rely upon by local community , those who need access to cash and those without internet banking . the petitioner therefore request the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that the bank closure in North East Fife be reverse and all local bank branch be protect . ] [ p002846 ] Transport Infrastructure : Warrington Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mike Wood . ) I be grateful to have the opportunity to discuss Warrington ' s transport infrastructure . one of my main motivation for do so be that , during the 15 year I have live in Warrington , the traffic jam have get bad , principally on the vital route cross the Manchester ship canal , which run through the heart of my constituency . a few week back , during business question , I raise with the Leader of the House the difficulty that my constituent have be experience when try to cross the canal , owe to the age and upkeep of the swing bridge that carry the traffic . there be three main swing bridge in Warrington — one on the A56 , one on the A49 and one on the A50 — all of which have be in operation for almost 130 year since the Manchester ship canal open back in 1894 . the Manchester Ship Canal Act 1885 be pass when Queen Victoria be on the throne , and it do not anticipate the number of vehicle cross on these route . the volume of traffic that the bridge carry today make they critical route for resident and commuter travel through Warrington . however , their age make they susceptible to ever more frequent breakdown and fault . they be sometimes leave stick open for hour at a time during period of exceptionally hot or cold weather , when the metal expand or contract . during peak hour , the standard opening of a bridge to allow a boat to pass along the canal can result in huge congestion , which take up to 90 minute to return to normal . and it be not just one bridge opening — all three bridge open as a boat pass from Liverpool to Manchester . naturally , this be only make bad when the bridge do not function as they should . the deteriorate condition of the bridge mean that they require essential and thorough maintenance . the stick point — pardon the pun — be not who be responsible for the repair work , which be accept to be Peel Ports , the owner of the Manchester ship canal , but who pay for the wide mitigation when the bridge be closed . Peel Ports estimate that the repair work for each bridge will cost around £ 6 million and take up to nine month to complete , during which the bridge undergo maintenance will be close to traffic and leave permanently swing open . this will result in a 2 mile diversion to use one of the adjacent bridge when each bridge be undergo maintenance . as such , the council have seek appropriate mitigation cost from Peel , particularly to cover the cost of provide home - to - school transport , as the hundred of pupil who currently walk or cycle to nearby school would become eligible for free transport to be provide . the difficultly have arise from Peel ' s refusal to acknowledge any responsibility to provide that bus service or school transport cost , which encompass the majority of the mitigation seek by the council . that have leave the situation at an impasse , with the schedule maintenance work to the A49 London Road bridge , due to have commence in April , have now be put on hold , with no date agree for the work to take place . unfortunately , the swing bridge be not the only vital transport route where Peel be involve in Warrington . the Warburton toll bridge over the Manchester ship canal , which cross the Warrington and Trafford council boundary , be also in need of upgrade work . to fund that , Peel have propose raise the toll from 12p per crossing , a price set in 1980 , to £ 1 for every journey . for someone travel to work each day , as many people do over the bridge , that would mean have to pay about £ 500 extra per year simply to get to and from work . it be simply not acceptable that the burden should be place on the motorist for whom this route be an essential part of their daily life , and I make that point last November at the public inquiry on the plan . several of my constituent have also get in touch to raise their concern about the introduction of a propose auto - pay system at the Warburton bridge , because of their experience of have be catch at similar crossing such as the Mersey Gateway bridge between Runcorn and Widnes . in the first quarter of this year , 3 . 5 million crossing over the Mersey Gateway bridge be record . in that period , 149 , 000 penalty be issue , mean that there be one fine for every 24 crossing make . that be an incredibly high rate and I do not want to see a similar situation develop at the Warburton toll bridge . the overarching point I hope the Minister have gather from that be that my constituent , who depend on these vital canal crossing for work , school and general travel be currently leave at the mercy of a private company that just do not appear to grasp the reality of the situation . own a major waterway such as the Manchester ship canal bring great responsibility to the people who live and work on either side . Peel should therefore be do everything possible to minimise disruption to the daily life of my constituent , yet there have be a failure to acknowledge the enormous impact that the closure of the swing bridge will have on the Warrington South community in particular , couple with an unacceptable and , for many , unaffordable toll increase on vital crossing in and out of Warrington . these issue have call into question the validity of these vital canal crossing be own and operate by a private company , and it be time that we look at whether that should be change . another issue I would like to raise with the Minister concern the propose Warrington western link bypass to connect the A56 Chester Road with the A57 Sankey Way in Great Sankey . that scheme have be put forward as a means to significantly reduce congestion in the town centre by provide an alternative route to cross the Manchester ship canal , mean that car would not have to use the swing bridge or go to the Bridgefoot gyratory . in April 2019 , the Department for Transport confirm that the scheme have be successful in secure programme entry into the large local major scheme programme , and Warrington Borough Council subsequently approve the proposal cost at £ 212 million , of which £ 142 million would be fund by the Government , with the borough council provide the remain £ 70 million . since then , the project cost of the scheme have balloon into the region of £ 269 million , leave a shortfall of some £ 56 million , on today ' s figure . that have leave the proposal for the western link in serious jeopardy . my great fear be the knock - on effect that this uncertainty have for the infrastructure in the council ' s proposal in its local plan to build thousand of new home and logistic warehouse on green belt in south Warrington . as of now , no one can say for certain whether the western link will become a reality . that be deeply concern when we be talk about proposal that will see many more car on the road , increase congestion and worsen air quality if sufficient road infrastructure be not there to support that . despite those issue , one area where I can speak positively be Warrington ' s bus network . thank to various pot of funding from this Government , Warrington Brough Council have finally be able to benefit from a significant increase in bus funding . the large sum — £ 21 . 5 million — come from the Department for Transport . that will enable Warrington ' s Own Buses , a municipal bus company , to replace its entire fleet with over 100 new zero emission electric bus . the Minister will recall that , a couple of month ago , in this Chamber , I ask he to join I in call on Warrington Borough Council to get on with order our new bus . I be pleased to update the Minister as , finally , 20 month since receive the zero emission bus regional area funding , an order have be place . the funding have finally be put to use and a new bus fleet will be roll out from 2024 . disappointingly , it be not necessarily be make in this country , but at least we be go to see new bus on the street of Warrington . People read the council ' s press release would be forgive for believe that the entire project have be fund by Warrington Borough Council . the bus need a home and I be incredibly grateful that the Minister join I in Warrington , back in February , to see the progress on the new bus depot that be be build on Dallam Lane . again , I be pleased to update he that that have be complete . the project receive £ 5 million from the town deal , but no mention of that be make by Warrington Borough Council in its press release . on top of the new fleet and depot , the Government have be able to make improvement to route and service across Warrington , thank to the £ 16 . 2 million we have receive from the Department for Transport ' s bus back well fund . because of that , the council have be able to proceed with its bus service improvement plan , cap fare at £ 2 for adult and £ 1 for young people age five to 18 until 2025 . again , people would be forgive for think that be all down to funding provide by Warrington ' s Labour council , when , in reality , the funding commitment have come from this Conservative Government . as I say , the Government have put approximately £ 42 million into Warrington ' s bus network , which I can safely say be one of the large investment of its kind in the north of England . it be a great example of what can be achieve when local and national Government work together to deliver for people in the north . however , come full circle , the fundamental weakness in all these initiative in Warrington be the failure to invest in the road infrastructure to carry the bus . in conclusion , I would like to ask the Minister a couple of question on point I have raise in the debate . on the issue surround the operation and maintenance of the Manchester ship canal swing bridge crossing , will the Government give any consideration to review the original legislation , the Manchester Ship Canal Act 1885 , which seem to be fundamentally out of date ? be it not time that car be give priority and there be a focus on ensure that the bridge stay open at peak time ? will the Minister and his Department take step to ensure that private owner such as Peel be play their part to minimise disruption and operate the crossing for the benefit of the people who depend on they ? do the Minister know if there be any support package available to help with the cost of mitigation when major infrastructure work take place , such as the swing bridge replacement currently propose ? with regard to the western link , I know his Department have receive correspondence recently from Warrington Borough Council request that the Government increase their funding contribution to help make up the shortfall cause by the increase cost of the scheme . will the Minister outline the position of his Department on the funding shortfall ? will he reaffirm that the Department for Transport will be commit to the funding originally approve towards the cost of the scheme when it go ahead ? do he agree that , while the scheme remain in limbo , it be frankly inappropriate for the borough council to be propose large housing and logistic development on green belt , if it can not commit to fund the infrastructure there to support those project ? finally , will he reassure I that he will look carefully at any recommendation from the independent inspector to increase crossing toll for the Warburton bridge ? local resident be already impact by high inflationary pressure on the cost of living ; they do not need a furth £ 500 of toll simply to cross the Manchester ship canal . Warrington be designate a new town in 1968 . since then , the population have more than double , yet our transport infrastructure simply have not keep pace with the increase demand . an additional high - level crossing , which be plan near to the exist cantilever bridge , have never materialise between Stockton Heath and Grappenhall , despite land be reserve for it . because of that , a private company be attempt to play catch - up with essential repair work to vital crossing at the expense of resident and commuter who depend on they , and the local authority be press ahead with a half - bake local plan that could only severely worsen transport issue in Warrington . the Government have do a great deal for Warrington resident in the past few year , and I be particularly grateful to the Department for Transport and the Minister for the investment that have be make in Warrington bus . I thank he again for come to the Dispatch Box to respond to one of my Adjournment debate and I look forward to hear he address some of the concern that I have raise today . it be always a delight to respond to my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South ( Andy Carter ) . he be a persistent campaigner on behalf of the people of Warrington South and the broad local community . I congratulate he on again secure an Adjournment debate and on speak so passionately about the issue that affect his constituent in Warrington . without doubt , he be an absolute local champion for the area . it be great to hear he acknowledge the championing of his community by my Department and the huge amount of investment that we have make . I might even put he in touch with my communication team at the Department for Transport to see whether he can give we some pointer on how we can ensure that this Conservative Government get the credit for the ten of million of pound of investment that have be plough into his area . I be particularly grateful for the opportunity to discuss transport in Warrington today . this Government understand the importance of transport to people and business , as it power local economy across our country . our levelling up White Paper , publish last year , set out our plan to transform the UK by spread opportunity and prosperity across the country , and bring leave - behind community up to the level of more prosperous place . transport be vital to achieve that end . it improve access to job and service , change business location decision , and help to restore pride across our country . that be why we be invest in both local transport and major infrastructure project to improve connection across our country . I will touch on some of the investment in Warrington that my hon . friend mention . this be one of the large investment in any town by this Conservative Government . we have commit more than £ 16 million in the bus service improvement plan to supercharge the local bus network ; £ 21 . 4 million in zero emission bus regional area funding to transition local operator Warrington ' s Own Buses entire bus fleet to zero emission — I be delighted to visit the area in February to highlight some of that investment ; and £ 10 million to develop the full business case for the Warrington western link road scheme — overall , we have make a conditional commitment of up to £ 142 . 5 million to deliver that scheme , subject to final approval . there have also be an allocation this financial year of £ 5 . 5 million to help Warrington support highway maintenance , pothole repair and local transport measure ; an additional £ 709 , 000 be announce this year at the spring Budget for pothole repair . Warrington have benefit more broadly from many different transport scheme , include the big plan that we have to transform rail across the north . in November 2021 , we commit in our integrate rail plan to a £ 96 billion programme that will transform rail service across the north and the midland . it be the single big rail investment ever make by a UK Government . this include a Northern Powerhouse Rail network run from Liverpool to York and Newcastle , via Warrington ; a commitment to a new high - speed line between Warrington , Manchester and Yorkshire ; reinstatement of the Warrington Bank Quay station as a low - level station ; and upgrade and electrify exist line between Warrington and Liverpool . Warrington Bank Quay station , in my hon Friend ' s constituency , will also get direct benefit from the HS2 - NPR connection there , include well regional service and well service into London . in addition , development opportunity in Warrington , include site close to Warrington Bank Quay station , will be an attractive draw for local investment when combine with the connectivity improvement that we be plan . that build on an over £ 1 billion investment , complete in 2019 , that upgrade and electrify many railway line across the north - west . let I turn to some of my hon . friend ' s specific point , particularly in relation to the Manchester ship canal and , importantly , the three swing bridge that serve the town centre . Warrington be a nexus of road , rail and waterway — historic waterway and crossing that echo the glorious industrial heritage of the region , which we both hail from . by its nature , it be an intricate network , and I understand just how disruptive it can be to community when key artery be out of action . the three bridge in question , own and operate by Peel Ports , have serve the town for over 130 year and , as my hon . Friend state , be clearly in need of complete refurbishment . recognise the dual purpose that the bridge serve — access for the local community and access along the Manchester ship canal for shipping — there will inevitably and regrettably be disruption that need to be plan for and manage . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his effort to date . on the matter of manage the impact of that disruption to the local highway network , it be for the local highway authority , Warrington Borough Council , to assess the need of the local community , include resident , visitor and business , and to weigh up the option . I recognise that the bridge be outwith the local authority ' s direct control . it be therefore vital that the local authority and Peel Ports work together as closely as possible to manage any disruption cause by the work . I understand that discussion between the local authority and Peel be ongoing , and I hope that a reasonable solution can be find so that the whole local community can benefit . I hope that they hear my hon . friend ' s plea today . I know that he will continue to campaign hard for something that both Peel and his local authority can come together on . in order to help local authority to plan effectively for manage their road and to improve asset management , the Government have move to a three - year funding settlement for local highway maintenance , amount to approximately £ 915 million of capital funding per year . that funding cover we all the way through to 2024 - 25 , and be some of the money that I hope the local authority might be able to use locally . Warrington Borough Council be receive around £ 5 . 5 million of it this year , on top of the £ 709 , 000 in the Budget . it will be for Warrington to determine which aspect of its highway maintenance programme it wish to prioritise . the council may want to look at how it can use some of its money , potentially work with Peel Ports , to look at the issue that my hon . friend raise . turn to the support for local bus service , Warrington be rightly proud of its bus network , and the Government recognise the importance of local bus network to ensure that community can stay fully connected . we have provide over £ 2 billion across the country since the pandemic to help mitigate the impact of the coronavirus , most recently through the bus recovery grant , which Warrington , along with most local transport authority , benefit from . in May we announce a long - term approach to support and improve bus service , with an additional £ 300 million to support service right up until April 2025 . that will be make up of two element : £ 160 million provide to local transport authority , include Warrington , through a bus service improvement plan plus mechanism ; and £ 140 million provide to operator through the bus service operator grant plus . give that Warrington operate its own bus , that BSOG will come directly to it . the flexibility for Warrington around the £ 16 . 2 million of BSIP funding that it receive have , I think , be welcome by all . I must be clear that responsibility for the maintenance and care of bridge and road — particularly in a case such as this , where a road cross a waterway and have commercial implication , and implication for local business and commuter — must fall to local party to manage . I commend my hon . friend on his effort to resolve this locally . I will say a little more on that at the end . on the Warburton toll bridge crossing , I be very much aware of the issue that he mention . the inspector ' s report into the propose Rixton and Warburton toll increase be receive by the Department for Transport on 13 July . the report and all the documentation pertain to the proposal will be assess , with a decision issue in due course . I assure my hon . friend , in answer to his question , that the inspector will look very carefully at its implication for local people . as my hon . friend know , Warrington have be progress the Warrington western link road scheme for potential Government funding as a large local major scheme . this scheme would provide a new 3 . 2 km link road in west Warrington , include a new high - level bridge over the Manchester ship canal , which people have be campaign for , as my hon . Friend say , for a very long time . it would also look at other bridge , include over the Mersey , to well connect north and south Warrington and help to reduce the reliance on the swing bridge that be the focus of his speech . in 2019 the Government make a conditional commitment of up to £ 142 . 5 million towards delivery of the scheme , bring it into the large local major programme , subject of course to an outline business case . that approval would come after the approval by my Department of a full business case for the scheme . at the time , as my hon . Friend say , the total scheme cost be estimate at £ 210 million , with the council contribute £ 68 million and the Department for Transport £ 142 . 5 million . as I have already mention , £ 10 million have already be provide directly by the Department towards the development of that final business case . the council have inform my official of the challenge that the scheme now face from cost increase as a result of inflation — I understand that the potential funding gap have now reach about £ 57 million . I be of course sympathetic to the challenge that local authority face . I understand that my official have ask the council for information from recent business case development for the scheme , to well understand the position and whether the strategic case for the scheme have be strengthen , include perhaps by some of the issue my hon . friend raise in relation to the swing bridge . however , I need to be clear that my Department ' s policy for any scheme on the MRN / LLM programme — major road network and large local major — be that the potential funding contribution be cap at the point of the outline business case . however , we be continually willing to look at that , and I look forward to further conversation between my Department and the council to see whether the business case can be strengthen . in answer to my hon . friend ' s question about the Manchester ship canal , we be always willing to look at historical issue and legislation . I urge he to write to I about it in detail so that I can give he a properly detailed response . give that it be a piece of victorian legislation , it would need to be look at it in depth , due to the intricacy that it will involve and the many other piece of legislation that will interact with it across Government . in closing , I thank my hon . friend again for secure this debate . I hope that I have reassure he and the House of the Government ' s commitment to transport infrastructure in Warrington — not in word , but in the ten of million of pound that have already be provide , the more than £ 140 million that have already be ringfence for the western link road and the huge investment in the rail network . I look forward to work with he on future plan and development for Warrington , and I be sure that both Peel Ports and the local authority have hear his voice strongly , call for they to come together and find a solution for his constituent and for Warrington . I congratulate he , as ever , on speak up on behalf of Warrington in this House . question put and agree to . House adjourn .