with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on the United Kingdom ' s economic relationship with the United States . the UK have a strong and balanced trading relationship with the US worth £ 315 billion , which support 2 . 5 million job across both our country . this be second only to the EU , where our trading relationship be worth £ 791 billion . yesterday evening the United States announce a 10 % reciprocal tariff on UK export , and it have today impose a 25 % global tariff on car . that follow the application of tariff of 25 % on US import of steel , aluminium and derivative product announce on 12 March . no country be able to secure an exemption from those announcement , but the UK do receive the low reciprocal tariff rate globally . and although that vindicate the pragmatic approach the Government have take , we know that while the tariff be still be levy the job be far from do . we be , of course , disappoint by the increase in tariff on the UK and on other country around the world . the impact will be feel among all trading nation . but I would like to update the House on how the UK can navigate these turbulent time , act in our national interest and for the benefit of all our industry . I would also like to take this opportunity to thank my american counterpart , Secretary of Commerce Howard Lutnick , US trade representative Jamieson Greer , and special envoy Mark Burnett for their engagement over the past few month . while any imposition of tariff be deeply regrettable , from the beginning they promise to make themselves available and they have be true to their word . I look forward to our continued engagement over the day ahead . as member will know , since the new US Administration take office , my colleague and I have be engage in intensive discussion on an economic deal between the US and the UK , one that would not just avoid the imposition of significant tariff but deepen our economic relationship . on everything from defence , economic security , financial service , machinery , tech and regulation , there be clear synergy between the US and UK market . that be reflect in the fair and balanced trading relationship that already exist between our two country . I can confirm to the House that those talk be ongoing and will remain so . it be the Government ' s view that a deal be not just possible but favourable to both country , and that this course of action serve Britain ' s interest as an open - face trading nation . I have be in contact with many business , across a broad range of sector , include those most affected , who have very much welcome this approach . it be clear to I that industry itself want to grasp the opportunity a deal can offer and welcome the Government ' s cool - head approach . in increasingly insecure time , I have hear some member cle to the security of simple answer and loud voice . I understand the compulsion , but I caution member of this House to keep calm and remain clear - eyed on what be in our national interest , not simply to proclaim that we follow the action of other country . the british people rightly expect the Government to keep our country secure at home and abroad , and an unnecessary , escalate trade war would serve neither goal . true strength come in make the right choice at the right time . thank to the action of our Prime Minister , who have restore Britain ' s place on the world stage , the UK be in a unique position to do a deal where we can , and to respond when we must . it remain our belief that the good route to economic stability for work people be a negotiate deal with the US that build on our share strength . however , we do reserve the right to take any action we deem necessary if a deal be not secure . to enable the UK to have every option open to we in the future , I be today launch a request for input on the implication for british business of possible retaliatory action . this be a formal step and it be necessary for we to keep all option on the table . we will seek the view of UK stakeholder over four week until 1 May 2025 on product that could potentially be include in any UK tariff response . this exercise will also give business the chance to have their say and influence the design of any possible UK action . if we be in a position to agree an economic deal with the US that lift the tariff that have be place on our industry , this request for input will be pause , and any measure flow from it will be lift . further information on the request for input will be publish on great . gov . uk later today , alongside an indicative list of potential product that the Government consider most appropriate for inclusion . I know that this will be an anxious time for all business , not just those with direct trade link to America . let I say very clearly that we stand ready to support business through this . that start by ensure that business have reliable information ; any business that be concerned about what these change mean for they can find clear guidance and support on great . gov . uk , where there be now a bespoke webpage . this Government be elect to bring security back to work people ' s life . at a time of volatility , business and worker alike be look to this Government to keep our head , act in the national interest and navigate Britain through this period . while some may urge escalation , I simply will not play politic with people ' s job . this government will strive for a deal that support our industry and the well - pay job that come with they , while prepare our trade defence and keep all option on the table . this be the right approach to defend the UK ' s domestic industry from the direct and indirect impact of US tariff in a way that be both measure and proportionate , while respect the rule - base international trading system . as the world continue to change around we , british worker and business can be assure of one constant : this be a Government who will not be set off course in choppy water . the final part of our approach will be to turbo - boost the work this government be do to make our economy strong and more secure , include our new industrial strategy . we will strike trade deal with our partner and work closely with our ally for our share prosperity . we have a clear destination to deliver economic security for work people . we be progress a deal that can do just that , lay the foundation to move quickly should it not , and ensure that british business have a clear voice in what happen next . I commend this statement to the House .