I sincerely thank my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet ( Theresa Villiers ) for secure this Adjournment debate , and for her powerful speech . she really bring the subject to life through the example from her constituency of people ' s experience in hospital . they be very difficult story to hear , and I be very sorry to hear of time when it sound like the care for people ' s love one have fall short . my right hon . Friend make some powerful point that I want to address , start with the fact that , as she say , there be many thousand of people live with dementia , and the number be only expect to increase ; indeed , there will be more than a million by 2025 . many people with dementia will also be live with other health condition . at the moment , it be estimate that around a quarter of the bed in hospital be be use by patient with dementia , so ensure that people receive the right care when they be in hospital with dementia be really important , as be do our utmost to avoid unnecessary admission and ensure that people be discharge from hospital on a timely basis . it be really worth emphasise the point that my right hon . Friend make about dignity , and the fact that every single person count , at whatever stage of their life . there be challenge to ensure that people live with dementia have that dignity , particularly when they be in hospital . I , too , pay tribute to the many unpaid carer who be look after their love one with dementia . I know what a huge burden and challenge that can be . however much someone love somebody , there be a huge demand on they when they be care for somebody with dementia . it can be very difficult , very distressing and absolutely relentless , however much they love they . I pay tribute to all carer who be do that . my right hon . Friend speak first about Lisa Rutter , who very sadly lose her mother , who be live with dementia , during the pandemic — in hospital , if I hear my right hon . friend correctly . I thank Lisa Rutter for the work that she be do as the founder of Dementia Club UK . it be fabulous to be support other people to look after love one with dementia , or indeed those with dementia themselves . my right hon . friend talk about the time Lisa ' s mother spend in hospital , and how , for instance , Lisa know what her mother need but feel that she be not listen to , and that it may have contribute to her mother ' s death . my right hon . Friend also talk about the visit restriction during the pandemic . I will talk about those in a moment . my right hon . friend talk about another constituent , whose wife be in hospital . she rightly talk about the importance of mobilise somebody with dementia , and how her constituent ' s wife be nearly give the wrong medication , which could have be fatal . she speak about the importance of his intervention . she also speak about a constituent who be a carer for their father , and the importance of mobilisation , and some of the communication challenge for somebody with dementia . my right hon . friend talk about one person who have be scream all night , as describe by the staff . actually , the family member who know they understand that they be call for help , as they need to go to the toilet . that bring to life how difficult it can be when somebody have dementia and be not necessarily able to articulate their need and what they want . those who know they well will often know what they be try to say or communicate , but that can be difficult in hospital when they may be be look after by staff who simply do not know they well enough to know what they mean . my right hon . friend talk about food be leave uneaten . if somebody be not eat in hospital , clearly they be likely to lose weight and their condition may deteriorate . she also talk about medication be stop , and she talk particularly about somebody whose partner have early onset dementia , and have be cope fairly well at home . he walk into A & E , and that be very sadly the last time he walk . that emphasise the challenge of keep people move and maintain their ability to be mobile during a hospital stay . she also describe the fight to visit outside visit hour . I very much hear my right hon . friend ' s ask on visitor access , volunteer be train in dementia care , as well as staff training , and avoid discharge delay , among other thing . I will pick up on some of those . first , on the challenge of care for people with dementia when in hospital , many hospital have work hard to do well for patient with dementia , for example create dementia - friendly environment by change the colour and lie - out , ensure that staff be train in dementia , and have dementia lead and dementia - lead nurse , as well as have training for volunteer . standard training in care for people with dementia be available through NHS England for staff and volunteer . clearly , my right hon . friend the Member for Chipping Barnet describe example where care fall short . I have no doubt that across the NHS , with the work already take place , we can go far . I will raise the point that she make about secondary care with my colleague , the Minister for Health and Secondary Care , so that we can work together on ensure that care be right in hospital . he also have oversight of workforce , and we should focus on whether the training that I know be available be be take up by enough staff , consider the number of people in hospital with dementia . on visit , my right hon . Friend speak about a subject that be close to my heart . have be involve in some of the decision about social care visit restriction during the pandemic and know how hard those decision be — weigh up the infection control concern and ensure people could spend time with love one — we have be put in place change to Care Quality Commission regulation to make visit a fundamental right , a fundamental part of care and a fundamental standard of care to ensure well access for love one to their family member in care home and in hospital . I know in particular how important that be for people with dementia , among other . the CQC be consult on the implementation of the regulatory change , which will be live shortly . I believe we have take a significant step to address concern express about visit . another thing my right hon . friend speak about be fast discharge . I be very alert to the risk of patient deconditione in hospital , particularly patient with dementia . that be why over the past year or so , we have work hard with the NHS to get well at identify patient at great risk of deconditione , in particular those with dementia , on their admission to hospital . we have do early discharge planning and have be get care transfer hub establish all across the country , which will do the work on more complex discharge . often someone with dementia may need more access to social care . we may need to increase the access to , availability and supply of social care , so that it be there for those who will need it when they leave hospital . we have make some real progress on that over the past year .