I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for this opportunity to come to the House to discuss the importance of river crossing in my constituency of Gravesham . I be grateful to the Minister for give up his time today to respond to the debate . I wish to cover two crossing : one old and closed , which be the Gravesend to Tilbury ferry ; and one planned and very expensive , which be the low Thames crossing . for those who do not know , Gravesham constituency be a river community . we be bind by the River Thames , with all its history , just as we member be here in the House , and we be only 20 mile apart . for much of the history of the borough , there have be river crossing , certainly since roman time . accord to one esteemed local historian , Christoph Bull , the right of long ferry be exclusively give to gravesend waterman to provide a river service to and from London . this be a bit of a history lesson , but that be confirm by the King in 1401 in a charter , the aim be to help rebuild the town after a fire in 1380 . since then , there have be a river crossing in place between the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Jen Craft ) and mine . it have connect the two ancient kingdom of Kent and Essex for eon , enable travel for trade , leisure and tourism . today , the Port of London Authority , which control all travel of boat up and down the Thames , be base in my constituency , and I pay tribute to it . the Royal National Lifeboat Institution have a base on the river in Gravesend , and I know that the House would want to extend our thank to it for the work it do across the country . the people of Gravesham and of my hon . friend ' s constituency of Thurrock be river people . many family , include mine , have link to the river . my late father - in - law , Trevor Mochrie , be a Gravesend tug seaman , who work on the river early in his career , before work on the high sea . as the river be the main artery to and from London , Gravesham be and be strong on industry , and it be a source of employment in tourism and leisure . in particular , we have our Gravesend regatta , which be celebrate 179 year . it be run before that , but it be make official 179 year ago by the council , because of some very unparliamentary dispute that take place about who win a race . I place on record my tribute to the committee , its chair , Shane Cleaver , and all the volunteer for keep this tradition go in a sportsmanlike fashion , and there have be no further dispute of that kind . give that extensive local history and heritage , it be to our dismay and that of resident , business and visitor from Thurrock and gravesend that Thurrock council and Kent county council cease fund the Gravesend - Tilbury ferry service last year . since the ending of that service , local business have suffer significantly . they have tell I that it have impact on people ' s ability to get to and from work , and that they have lose many people who can not bear the thought of take the Dartford crossing in order to get to work . on our high street , one particular business , Marie ' s Tea Room , which use to cater for the pass trade from the large cruise ship that use to dock at Tilbury , have be impact to the point that it can no long employ a member of staff . these thing have impact , and I be sure it be the same across our high street . I have be run a petition , as have my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock , and there have be other . my petition have garner thousand of signature — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) my petition , which have garner thousand of signature , call for the return of the ferry service . it be clear that business and resident want their ferry back . at present , there be a desire for people to travel by public transport , which I support . People should leave their car at home , but they need option . previously , the option be a 10 - minute jump across the water . now , the option be a train into London and back out again , or multiple bus to get through the Dartford crossing . all this be cost we precious time . if we as a society want to support public transport , relieve congestion on the road should be at the heart of everything we do . take the example of the Woolwich ferry , which , by parliamentary statute , must be run and be not able to charge . I be not ask — tempt as it be — for that to be the case for the Gravesend - Tilbury ferry , but I be ask the local authority to protect these valuable transport route .